ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40630	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Free Access to Information was adopted in 2004 and, of course, the aim of the Law is to achieve the right of citizens to know the information that is of public importance. This law has been amended twice so far: once in 2007 and once in 2009. In 2009, the supervision of the application of this law came from the Ministry of Information Affairs, which was with us the Ministry of Culture, to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. In practice, it has been observed that this law is mainly implemented, but never to the extent that it would be satisfactory for a single legal state and for a society that is determined to make this right of citizens truly realistic. That is why we have found ourselves in front of a dilemma of what to do next so that this right of citizens is fully available to every citizen and that it would not happen that the Information Commissioner as a second-degree body solves and that, nevertheless, the Head of State refuses to give information of public importance to citizens. Unfortunately for us, in the previous years, we've had a lot of cases when it happened. Many of these are known to the general public because they had, on condition, their epilogue in the media, but did not have their epilogue in that the information requested by the citizen was delivered to that citizen. That's why we did two things. As a resolute ministry, we have initiated about 140 infringements against the body's managers, of course, in accordance with our capabilities, for violations of certain provisions of the law, which could have been established within a relatively short period of time since we were supervised and since the Commissioner for Information provided us with this information. Another thing, which I think is very important: as Government, we have established the bill that lies before you today. We want this proposal to give the Commissioner for Information as a second-degree body the power to punish all those who do not or cannot comply with their legal obligation and make available to the public information that the Trustee considers to be of public importance. How do we do that? By putting the Institute of Administrative Enforcement, which is provided for first-degree bodies under the General Administrative Procedure Act, by special law, so we put this law in the jurisdiction of the second-degree body, i.e. the Trustee of Information, because this enables the General Administrative Procedure Act itself. In particular, if the National Assembly adopts this law, the Information Commissioner will be able to manage an authority that does not act according to the resolution of the Information Commissioner to fine and to succesively impose that sentence until the controller has fulfilled his obligation to make available to the public the information required of it. Five times in a row is the most possible, but at the same time, the ministry of administration and local self-government will file a misappropriation against that person. After 140 infringements which we have filed and our undeniable determination to end this once and for all, that a law that is five or six years in application is finally beginning to be fully applied, therefore, after this resolution that we have shown after these amendments to the Law, it is expected that there will be no more information in Serbia to be hidden from the public, even when it intervenes for them to publish the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. It is hard to imagine the situation that, after the amendment of this law, a state-level executive will allow himself to win the title in the paper that he was punished by between five and twenty thousand dinars, that a misdemeanor was committed against him. It is hard to expect in today's Serbia, at today's stage of Serbia's democratic development, that the leader withstands the condemnation of public opinion and that the political option supported by the executive assumes the risk that such a leader continues to hold him, or that he does not require him to withdraw from office or replace him. That is why I think and hope that we are all experiencing this law in the same way; it is a law that should ensure that the law that this National Assembly passed seven years ago, six years ago, is respected in the way we wanted it and the day that this law was before the MPs and when that law was first passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40631	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Petar Jojic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee when considering these draft laws, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Vervain Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40632	Ladies and gentlemen, for the same reasons as yesterday over those two laws, I've singled out my opinion on the Legislative Committee, because it's really amazing that we have, like, two laws today, and it's actually two members. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia, this is a special curiosity, because this law of the minority has not even entered into force, and the government is already proposing its amendments and additions. This is also one of the evidence that I presented yesterday, that the government is manipulating the National Assembly because the congregation majority accepts it without a discussion. It has been heard in public these days, and I think on the Legislative Committee, the government's representative said that what is now foreseen in this law was not submitted by any of the MPs in the form of amendments, and if it were, they would accept it. It's also something that's unacceptable. You have one amendment today that provides for many possible honours, so I don't know if you'll accept it just in case, so that you don't think about it, in the meantime, that Serbia has had Karadjordje in history, and Milos Obilić, etc., Serbian heroes, and that we once had such medals. It is truly unserious to manipulate the congregation in this way, and I especially refer to the MPs of the congregation’s majority, for I find it amazing that this is what they allow themselves to do. As regards the draft law amending the Law on free access to information of public importance, this law has been amended. The Commissioner for Public Information is working hard and trying to comply with the existing law and to initiate amendments to the law. Let's remind ourselves how long it took a man to form a team in the first place so he could work, how much trouble he had with the rooms, with basic means of working, with profits, and so on. All of this shows that it's actually this so-called. independent regulatory bodies only form which we, like, vote in this House, which is either not applied or cannot be applied where someone placed on that function might have a desire to apply it. The book Vojislav Seselj "Police File" was recently published in front of me. Be assured that the highest public interest is to publish and disclose exactly what has been published in this book, which is normally in four volumes, where it is seen that basic human rights are being violated, as Vojislav Seselj was followed from 1982 until the end of 2002, so until he went to The Hague. Disclosure of these documents is the highest public interest, so as to draw attention to all state authorities, including the Commissioner for Access to Information of Public importance, including to you ministers, and to the entire government and the judiciary, that you should all read this and deal with the contents of this book, because it is obvious that it is an illegal listening and monitoring of Vojislav Seselj all these years. In fact, this book exposes the work of secret services in Serbia, which do not do what they should do, which is to safeguard Serbia's interest, but rather deal with finding some people who are disturbing them for political reasons, which disturb the ruling regimes. Then, for political reasons to deal with this man, in this case Vojislav Seselj, his work, his movement, every step and every sentence spoken, of course, by constructing many lies... Instead of dealing with what is the interest of the Serbian state and what is in the jurisdiction of secret services, instead of guarding the state, it starts from SFRY, now to Serbia, Serbia... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... I'm done and I'm done, thank you, and Serbia is... I'd like you to put the book down. It's simple, you're not allowed to advertise everything that's being sold. I'm sorry, it doesn't say anything, and you can't stop us from putting the book in front of us, and what I was saying is absolutely under the bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40633	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40634	Ladies and gentlemen, the most important task in the domain of legal and legislative policy is a consistent insistence on applying and strengthening the constitutional principle of rule of law. This means three things: first, that regulations must be strictly applied, equally for all; secondly, that outdated regulations must be changed as soon as possible; thirdly, legislative and judicial mechanisms should be provided for the equal legal position of all citizens and all legal entities in all Serbia's territory. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, of great importance, this concerns the entire parliament and all the MPs, is just the publication of the secret police file that was led, and the operational processing of Professor Vojislav Seselj. These secret services, in the SFRY, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, SRJ, Montenegro, have been operationally working from 1982 until the voluntary departure to The Hague of Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj (napping, monitoring, recording, kidnapping of his mobile items, downloading and confiscation of messages he had, these were correspondence and mail). In Broz's time the Constitution and the laws were not respected when it came to national security. Although there were legal and constitutional frameworks, this was not respected. The State Security Service has done whatever it wants, according to Broza's orders, by order of others, the government's rulers and other leaders in Serbia. Neither the law nor the safety regulations nor the internal affairs authorities were respected. From Broz's time to 2002, there was an operational treatment of Professor Vojislav Seselj, who was operated exclusively as a political inexperience. Watch out, this is very important, watch out for the categories, and listen to the MPs day and day. I can say that after Josip Broz, even later, the category of Shessel's processing was changed, but, in essence, during Slobodan Milosevic and the DOS government, Vojislav Seselj was treated as an internal enemy by secret services. However, this was adapted to new political circumstances, and time was called a different term; it is now called extremism and terrorism. It's practically still a category of internal enemy in Broz's time. So, for a political opponent or for a political inexperience, they still haven't been those bad times. In recent times, as the government fights the opposition, so are we MPs in the People's Assembly of Oppositions, and in secret services, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, remember that you all act as extremists. I wouldn't be surprised if tomorrow someone from the opposition who left a political party was arrested or processed. I don't want to name him, you know. This is the radio and Broz – turn it off from the party and immediately establish operational processing. At the processing of Vojislav Seselj, more than 50 times registered associates working for the national security of BiH, Croatia, SFRY, SRJ and Serbia were hired as states, mainly from intellectuals. Remember, the intellectuals were registered in the follow-up and they were associates. Over fifty intellectuals in Serbia, or Belgrade, were hired to follow Professor Vojislav Seselj. At the processing of Vojislav Seselj there were 150 secret operations; you can imagine, over 1,500 days it was used for its control and its monitoring. He's been seized with written shipments. For the current government, however, Vojislav Seselj represented the most serious political opponent. (President: time's up. I'd just like to warn you that you've abused the institute of a separate opinion. Thank you. I hope this was new to you as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40635	I must tell you that I will not tolerate a distance from the agenda points and the business procedures that at this stage are presupposing to explain an individual opinion. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40636	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are present today two legislative proposals, and this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance and others, and what an important, legal proposal, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, despite a number of questions which will be raised during the debate in principle and debates in particular, will support this proposal in the voting day, because the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are actually regulated, provides for the obligation and effectiveness of the execution of the trustee's solution, which is of paramount importance when it comes to this law. Of course, the proposed changes and additions can be characterised and defined as a positive shift, as positive progress towards consistent law enforcement. The essence of the proposed changes, as could be heard, is that, in fact, non-compliance with the law introduces a co-expressive sentence to the persons responsible for the denial of information. What is more important is that according to this proposal, this fundamental change is actually in the trustee's jurisdiction; unless the trustee's warrant is respected even after the maximum penalty, the government of the Republic of Serbia will necessarily ensure execution. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions, i.e. a concrete proposed measure, with a stricter breaking policy, will give a positive effect, with a sharper criminal responsibility, when it comes to the implementation of this extremely important law. On the other hand, we also believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the competences of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will do everything necessary and necessary in order to improve the implementation of this law, i.e. a concrete resolution ministry within the Government of the Republic of Serbia will insist on responsibility for the violation of the law. It's good that the Ministry shows its willingness to do so. In addition to this finding, it also speaks to the fact, as we have recently heard, that the Ministry of State Administration has filed some 140 misappropriations against the authorities of the public authority (when I say the authorities of the public authority I assume you think of both mayors and directors, and the presidents of municipalities) because of the failure to comply with this law. The SPS-JS parliamentary group believes that those chosen to perform public functions have an obligation to do more, i.e. in particular, respect and enforce legal obligations. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia, first of all I would like to say that the Law on Features is the most important legal act to regulate the award of distinctions to credited individuals, citizens, athletes, collectives, as well as foreign statesmen and states. The medals are defined as the highest sign of public recognition given for the outstanding merits and deeds of great importance for the Republic of Serbia. It is important that this law has been passed, because the previous law is from 1998, it is the regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So it was not logical to share the distinctions of the non-existent state. When we talked about this law, we made it very clear that it was important to adopt this legislative proposal so that the President of the Republic could respond to a number of requests for an award. I think at the time, at the moment we discussed this bill, there were about 800 demands, and today that number is far higher, I guess. Today we are talking about a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia, and I want to say that we will support these proposals because we believe that the conditions should be created as soon as possible to adopt the relevant sublegal acts and to begin with the application of this law. On the other hand, of course we respect the tradition, the Serbian tradition, if we talk about the concrete content of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly want to point out is that, as a Parliament club, in the debate on the Law of Features, we've suggested that a certain number of medals that are deleted should be an integral part of this new law. We then offered a number of amendments to Articles 8 and 9, first of all, bearing in mind that in this way Serbia is due not only to the winners of medals, but also to the greats of Serbian history, culture, education, science, whose names these honours bear. Of course, then we had in mind and respect for Serbian tradition. On the other hand, we felt, as it is today, that the tradition of the oldest Serbian distinction should be respected. The amendments, unfortunately, were not then accepted, but part of the content of these amendments is today a central topic, the subject, i.e. the essence of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. In order not to talk again in a few months about the amendments and additions to this legislative proposal, we are once again suggesting, and we will talk about this in the discussion of details, to look at the amendment proposed by the SPS - JS Parliament Club to Article 8, because we think it offers a more comprehensive and better solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40637	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, representative of the LDP parliamentary group, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40638	Madam President, Mr Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I thank you for your word. I won't stick to the logic of joining agenda points, we talked about it several times and sometimes pointed to the illogical nature of the process. Now I would only stick to one segment of the topic of today's debate, and these are amendments and additions to the Law on State Delicacies. Accordingly, I say that we may have a flat-rate relationship on this subject at times, and in fact, this topic is very serious and points to what should be our relationship to the state symbols and to all attributes of the state's exposure, both to the foreign element and within the very state of Serbia. Accordingly, I would also like to ask some questions and I would like to get an answer regarding the logic of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law. It also says that the Medals for Courage are added to the name "Milos Obilic", which is where the award of Karadjordjev's star is being introduced, which is not controversial from the historical aspect, but can be disputed from the aspect of our full relationship with history. Namely, we seem to remember the leader of the Karadjords only when it comes to taking a look at his military merits and when his name should be put on behalf of a medal. We forget him as a revolutionary, modernizer and statesman. It is not disputed to return to the Serbian state and Serbian history of the Karadjordjev star, but the question is whether it is fair, whether it is historically justified to have only such a relationship with Serbian history, because Serbia was not created only by Karadjordjevici, but also by Obrenovici. If we're going back to the historical roots, can we ask the question of where is the Takowski Cross? Not the star of Karadjordje's oldest medal, there are older medals, which were awarded by the Principality of Serbia, which was assigned by the Kingdom of Serbia. The medals were worn by leading monarchs and statesmen of Europe at the same time, and this serves both Serbia and the Serbian people and even the Serbian tradition. We obviously don't have an answer to that question, because in my opinion, the relationship between those who tried to honor the characters with the historical tradition was superficial. Also, as regards the Medal of Courage named Milos Obilic, it is part of Serbia's tradition, but also part of the tradition of Montenegrin statehood. I'd like to get an explanation as to what logic the legislator was running when he included this name in the list of honours of the Serbian state? In the end, I would add that it is not only Karadjordje Petrovic who is responsible for what is modern Serbia and what began not only in the 1804th year, but also in 1791, after Kočina Krajina, and which gives continuity to modern Serbian statehood. He may be the father of the nation, but Milos Obrenovic must be the father of the state. Is it okay that, I would say, not too responsible, we refer to an important segment of Serbian tradition? Accordingly, I would ask the authorities to give us an answer and to give us an answer to the question whether such a policy will continue to be directed towards such important attributes of statehood, or whether it will be a completely different, more complete, more responsible relationship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40639	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40640	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have two laws before us, one has two members, the other has four members. Practically, when you exempt those members from it when the law comes into force, it is a total of four effective members. However, despite the fact that the laws are small, I would like some time to have the opportunity to begin my discussion of the proposed laws without making a comment on the merger of dots. If anyone explains to me what the law on the Commissioner for Information has to do with public importance and the Law on Features... That's two totally different things. If I'm not mistaken, they even come from different ministries, but independently of that, they're completely different things in their sense and I think they deserve a separate debate. In doing so, the DSS Group has never used the debate to waste time and we would certainly spend the same time that the debate was separated as in this situation when it was merged. When it comes to the Law on free access to information of public importance, whose change is proposed, the DSS has an understanding of the proposed changes. It is obvious that no sufficiently effective solution has been found in the existing law to implement decisions by the Commissioner for Public Information and the DSS has nothing to do with the proposed changes. However, it would be a shame not to notice something that is not directly related to this law alone, but to laws relating to many so-called so-called laws at all. the independent institutions that this government has formed. I do not think that independent institutions are in themselves a bad thing, however, in order to really be independent institutions of laws that regulate their work must provide these institutions with real and complete independence from the current government, i.e. current authorities. Of course, this applies to all governments and to all future authorities. In other words, it would be better if when we pass laws on independent institutions in these laws we establish such rules of play that will really enable these institutions to be in the right sense of the words independent. Of course, we may have introduced too many independent institutions, but for some of them, and this is certainly such an institution, it is necessary to ensure full independence from the current government. I'm afraid there are some other provisions in the existing law that should be changed in that sense. Against this change, I say, the DSS has nothing. As for the Law of Features, it is okay to return to the existing law some titles for the proposed decorations, traditional titles. I have to say, it's a shame, I have an impression, I have two impressions; one is that at a time when this law was written, and that was recently, the Law of Features, if memory doesn't cheat, we adopted me less than a year ago... If, after such a short period of access to the amendment of the law, it is obvious to me that something that seems to me in many of the laws that this government is proposing, which is that, it seems, the government is only beginning to read the laws when they are adopted. Because I don't see what great wisdom it was that at a time when we adopted the Law of Features a year ago, we didn't give any titles that existed in history. Of course, the medals, as well as any sign of the state, are subject to... It's not a political question, it's a professional question. I have the impression that the government has not consulted those who could competently help. I'm not speaking from a political point of view, I'm speaking exclusively from the aspect of the profession. I believe, like most of my fellow MPs in this House, I am not some special expert on this area, but certainly a profession in this sense could in some way help. A team before, as my colleague Mr. Milicevic said earlier, my memory also serves me so much, we had amendments (and this is the next observation, the principle of remark on the work of the current government) in this sense that medals, medals, etc. They have traditional names. That was a smooth refusal by the government. I think that too shows the government's complete unwillingness to seriously consider amendments to MPs, particularly opposition ones. And then, after a few months, this is not the first such example, the government realizes that these amendments have been good and approach to this adoption of these amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to that law. Most of all, because of these notes, I have come to the floor; these remarks should be remembered, and in the future work of this Parliament, have little more attention to the amendments that MPs give, and MPs of the opposition, should be more open to their adoption, especially when it comes to such laws that have no particular connection to the political profiles of the parties in this Parliament. I'm just going to add that we've proposed one amendment to the Law of Features. We'll explain it in detail when we discuss the amendments. I can tell you what's going on right now. We find it totally unacceptable to lift the medal given for the merits of defence and security and to introduce instead a medal for zealous service. Honestly, I don't know what a zealous service is. Does that mean anyone who regularly comes to work should get a medal? It is a zealous attitude toward the ministry. Or anyone who's willing to give his superior a medal, too, because it's some kind of zealous service? At the same time, something very important for the state, a relationship to its defence and security, such a medal is lifted. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment and we will have the pleasure of defending it. I hope that we will encounter a positive relationship between Mr. Trade Minister, who, interestingly, is proposed to represent the Law on Features. Not to be maligned, I find it strange that trade and medals have some connections, and maybe they do. That's what I'm letting you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40641	I'd just like to remind you that the promoter of these changes is actually a government. Mr. Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40642	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have an excellent example of how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works – the law on free access to information of public importance is not being applied. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no intention of applying this law, to implement it. As you know, he's been changed twice so far, in 2007 and 2009, and here he is now being changed for the third time. Imagine, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not implemented as many as 290 solutions by the Commissioner for Public Information. Thus, the government of the Republic of Serbia shows that it is co-operating, as it works, respects the laws that the ruling majority, who elected the government, voted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's see what is said in detail in the report of the Commissioner for Public Information (you can find it on his site), as he says, how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry are meeting him. He says: "In 2009, the Ministry of Culture acted in about 10% of cases delivered from the trustee's service in connection with a violation of responsibility for the violation of the right to access requested information. The trustee's service delivered 1,751 items with elements of the infringement to the ministry as of December 2009. The Ministry has filed a total of 256 requests to the competent law enforcement authorities... “ you read a little, so you decided to forward a small number of requests to the authorities, “... of which, in 124 cases, a fine ranging from 3,000 to 25,000 dinars has been imposed." Certain bodies, certain organisations do not respect the law and you punish them with 3,000 dinars. These are less punishments than for some of the simplest, most harmless traffic offences, the transition to yellow, for example. "The data listed indicate that less than 7% of the total cases of infringements of the right to access requested information have been punished by law so far. “ I don’t know if you heard me correctly, just 7%. What are you doing? You've passed the Credentials Act, you've passed a law on information of public importance, on the protection of personal data. When someone wants to follow that law, in 93% of the cases, you block it. Is the Serbian government incompetent, doesn't know what it's doing, doesn't have enough professional people or doesn't want citizens of the Republic of Serbia to disclose certain information of public importance, information of legitimate interest to be published? The law doesn't apply. Since 2006, the trustee has made several demands to the government of the Republic of Serbia to establish mechanisms to ensure the enforcement of trustees' decisions. Of course, he was ignored. Why? In its report, the Commissioner draws attention to the fact that the absence of government support for the implementation of its decisions, despite more reference to this problem, as well as to the more direct address of citizens and media to the Government, has an objectively negative impact on the application of the Law on free access to information of public importance. What are you doing here, government representatives? Why are you here? You're changing a law you don't normally apply. What's the problem with three members now, how much does it really change? Who are you kidding? You want to change that law next year, the ones there, every year? The argument of all government arguments on the path to Euro-Atlantic integration - you are violating the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, R No 2002. You have received a few recommendations from the Council of Europe to begin with adequate application and implementation of this law, to comply with the provisions of this law. You've even ignored it. So that's that famous trip to Europe. It is interesting that the Commissioner for Public Information warns almost every year about these problems and these failures, and even in the fifth year of the application of this law, these problems have not been removed. You have information about all this, but obviously you don't want to do anything and correct your mistake. You don't respect the law. If a citizen does not respect the law, he will be fined or, God forbid, he will go to jail for some insignificant matters, but ministers, representatives of the government are excluded from that responsibility. Now let's see if the government is ever revealing information, whether the government has the ability, the knowledge to disclose information. Let's compare two things: on the one hand, your relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which you treat as citizens of the second order, obviously, related to the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Public Information, where you have revealed 7% and acted in 7% of the trustee's demands, and on the other hand, the data you provide in the National Programme for EU Integration (NPI), where you speak of co-operation with the UN tribunal in The Hague. From 2006 to today, therefore, in the period when democratic changes, as you say, occurred, i.e. When the West ruled with the Republic of Serbia, not only Kosovo and Metohija, you made known to the tribunal in The Hague, the tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague, which is party to the process, all the secrets of the Serbian state, all the secret state security, all the secret counterintelligence services, all the secrets that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia had. Even documentation has been published with names, home numbers of operational technicians, i.e. operational workers and analytical technicians and associates. What Franjo Tudjman's associate Zdravko Mustac did, as head of the federal Udba, before the collapse of Yugoslavia, when he stole the co-worker's book and took it to Zagreb, that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia began to do. So you've made it clear to the tribunal in The Hague, the prosecution, the secretariat and everyone they allow to gain insight into that file. Do you think that documentation went to Washington, Brussels, London at the same time, whoever requested it, Zagreb? I think the answer to that question is quite clear. The people have a legitimate interest in knowing what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. On the one hand, you will not apply the Law on Access to Public Information, i.e. information of public importance or apply it to 7%, and on the other hand, when it comes to foreigners, you publish everything, you publish what no one else would normally publish, 100%. Information on numerous affairs, about the robbery of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for which the public is entitled and has a legitimate interest in knowing, is right in Dr Vojislav Seselj's book "Police File". Here you can find information about how citizens were robbed through the Dafiment Bank affair, through the Jugoscan affair, that Belgrade's citizens were robbed, related to the Parking Service, as twelvem euros were stolen from Belgrade's citizens. Do you think the public has a legitimate interest in knowing that information? The best part is that the state authorities had all that data, the government's representatives had all that data, and they didn't do anything about it. The responsible have not been punished. Imagine, some David Dudai damaged the city of Belgrade by more than 12m euros and damaged the Dafiment Bank for $16m! Don't you want the public to know that money was exported abroad, who was taking percentages of it, who was getting millions of marks on bills from carrying money abroad? These books say exactly that, that's what's mentioned. Also mentioned are certain tycoons who today finance DS and advances, who were exporting money abroad and therefore took huge percentages. It is also mentioned that a vice-president of the government has been followed and tapped, as he has been treated as a person who intends to violently come to power, and he is already in power. It's a radio V.D. Serbia's Supreme Court President, he issued the warrants, possibly a blank warrant for listening and monitoring, Balša Govedarica, to monitor the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Seselj. How is that possible? Simply, the public has a legitimate interest in knowing all this data, seeing how it was, how the Communist State Security Service created a black myth about certain people, how it satanized them. It's not the invention of that security service. Here, it's going to be interesting for Mr. Sutanovec, that's what the Americans did, did Mark Felt, another FBI man, who listened to the President of the United States (the famous Watergate affair), followed, listened to the President of the United States and published that information. I say, it'll be interesting for Mr. Sutanovac, after he's completed the FBI course, to know what the FBI is doing. So all this is information of public interest, of public importance and citizens have a legitimate interest in knowing the details of it. Is there anyone who can track them and listen to them based on a blank court order? Is it still there? You have it all in the books of Professor Vojislav Seselj. It is very interesting that you have decided to disclose information to the tribunal in The Hague, and you will not, under the Law on free access to information of public importance, publish information to the citizens in 93% of the cases. The tribunal in The Hague has invented a new crime – a joint criminal enterprise, which has introduced collective criminal responsibility, banned in international law, and you support one such institution. It's not just our attitudes, it's the attitudes of famous professors from the West, like, say, Alan Dershowitz, like Jenny Martinez, who's from Harvard, she's from Stanford, from Russia, Dr. Alexander Mezjaev. Many experts around the world have warned of these facts. It is this book, "Police File" by Dr Vojislav Seselj, that corrects your mistake and breaks the joint criminal enterprise in cases against all Serbs, i.e. against Serbian state leadership; a joint criminal enterprise is being broken down in all these cases. It is a legitimate interest for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to know that through these books they can be removed from the tribunal's coat of arms in The Hague, to enable these books to finally establish that the tribunal in The Hague accepts unverified evidence, that it selectively accepts evidence, that it creates a legal structure, invents a criminal act in 2001, which is not stated in the tribunal's statute in The Hague, solely because of Serbs, in the case of Duško Tadic. After that, 84% of the verdicts, 84% of the indictments are based on this joint criminal enterprise, designed to make Serbs as soon as possible, as fast as possible and as hard to condemn. This book by Dr Vojislav Seselj breaks the joint criminal enterprise and I can indeed recommend it to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I hear the president of the state, Boris Tadic, will look at it. That's very important. This book "Police File" by Dr Vojislav Seselj can be used to strengthen the security system, as the security system has been lifted since the DOS came to power, when you decided to hand over all state secrets to the UN tribunal in The Hague. You will not disclose information to the citizens of Serbia that they have the right under the law, in 93% of the cases, and you are giving the UN tribunal in The Hague what no one else would normally give. You are destroying the national security of the Republic of Serbia. How is that possible? So, these are really scary failures made by this government. I'm going to ask you one more time to think a little bit about implementing this law that I was talking about today. It is not enough for you to show up and make a declaration – we have passed so many laws, we have made so many decisions, we are approaching the European Union without you applying that law. Then you are really distracting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So think about it one more time and show more respect to the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40643	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40644	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, I only wanted a few notes, since it is about amendments to the law and these changes are essentially about one member of the existing law. What I find important in this debate is precisely the fact that after five years of applying and establishing an institution of trust for the availability of information of public importance it has been seen that there are shortcomings that need to be changed by amending the law and thus allow the law to be applied. In this sense, I really expected all parliamentary groups, especially the opposition, to support the adoption of such a law, because it is, when discussing anything, the main objection of the opposition – that there is no will for the laws to be passed. I really expected that in this case, when these changes actually show an undeniable will for this law to be effectively applied, the opposition will support it. At the same time, I would like to express great satisfaction that this government is precisely on the basis of a report and an analysis of the work of the Commissioner for Information proposing amendments to this law. The only objective of amending this law is to achieve the conditions for the full application of the law on the availability of information of public importance. We've talked about the importance of this law before. We believe that this law and the institution of trust is one of the basic institutions of a democratic society, that the availability of information is a criterion of the democracy of a society, because we think that a democratic society rests on the right of a citizen to know all the information that is of public importance and that there is no democratic society unless there is full availability of information of public importance. Therefore, I think that the amendments to this law are proof that there is a willingness to achieve its full application, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that there is a willingness to provide full support to the trustee institution for information of public importance. Of course, this subject can be a cause for any other topic and for spreading the story of what does not really apply to this law, nor to the field of information of public importance, but what must certainly not be misused is that this topic is an opportunity to advertise a commercial product, such as a book, anyone's, and I think that in that sense everyone should take care not to abuse the Assembly for that purpose. In voting day, we will vote for this law. We believe that this is extremely important from the point of view of this parliamentary majority which also proves in this way that it wants to build independent state institutions and that it wants to build institutions that are the very foundation of a truly democratic society. That doesn't really mean for us that he took control of the West or anyone else. It just means that we are showing awareness that building a democratic society is the greatest interest of all citizens of Serbia and we are taking responsibility for building such a society. The other law that lies before us today is amendments to the Law of Features. The basic tendency of these changes is to rely on what is tradition in establishing a medal. Every time Serbia needs to return to its traditional values, the question is raised, primarily because of the history of Serbia that has always been full of discontinuity and break-up with the past, which is the past that we should rely on, whether we have included everything that is important in that past. In that sense, I agree with my colleague Shami, who said it was good to leave it to the experts and that this should not be a matter of political affinities towards this or that part of our past, but simply a basis for those values that we can say are values that have contributed to the creation of a state and the development of a Serbian state. In that sense, for the ZES parliamentary club, the idea of relying on tradition is quite acceptable. Are there any amendments that solve and these dilemmas about whether we've looked at the parts of our past in the best way and whether we've built it into this law, I think it's really a question that needs to be discussed. If there is anything that has been detected inadequacy or indiscriminateness, it should be taken into account. The very idea of trying to cultivate a tradition for us is acceptable, I think that a society that has continuous discontinuity is a society that is unable to build even the future, because without serious relying on the past, we do not have the ability to build a future based on that past, which, of course, is different from that past and of course, will respect everything the modern world carries. Anyway, I don't think a people who don't show perseverance to keep their own values within themselves has the perseverance to build a future. That is why these two draft laws for European Serbia are not only acceptable, but we believe that the opposition has a lot of reasons to vote for them, because these amendments to the law are what they object to us that we do not want, and we are, in this law, showing that we want to. Therefore, I expect them to vote on these laws in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40645	Mrs. Pesic, it's not clear to me, you wanted a replica... (Vesna Pesic, from the place: From the time of power, to say something about this topic. ) They are now speaking for the first time from the heads of parliament. In the end, if you are authorized, you can replace Mr. Rangelovic. You can't get your word out of business. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40646	On the agenda we have a draft law amending the Law on free access to information of public importance, indeed only with two members: the date of entry into force of this law and Article. 28 trying to resist the violation of the law and concealing important information bring to the public the criteria of public work, i.e. informing citizens. I will immediately explain why the SNS will not vote for this law – because behind good intentions does not hide an instrument which you resist in breaking the law can force them to provide information to which the law is mandatory. This is evident from Article 2 of the proposed solution, where it says that administrative enforcement of the trustee's solution is carried out by coercion, in accordance with the law governing the general administrative procedure. The public needs to know, and all of us here, who failed to inform themselves that it was regulated by Article 276. The law on general administrative procedure and that the penalty for the lack of information is between five and twenty thousand dinars. No, I haven't forgotten one zero. For example, the director of the Civil Aviation Directorate, who receives a salary of 500,000 dinars, and the agreement on the financial plan was given to him by members of the government, ministers, acting as members of the Council, who have a fee of 10,000 euros a year, should pay a fine of between five and twenty thousand dinars of that monthly salary (500,000 dinars), here a fine, covering up from the public important information concerning the huge inflows of money based on a natural monopoly called the sky over Serbia and the payment of overflight, a huge inflow of money in which the government of the Republic of Serbia has no insight, citizens also. We MPs can't get information about that. Someone here assures me that it is an appropriate way to provide that information by changing the law after six years of adoption by charging even the upper limit of 20,000 dinars from someone who receives 500,000 dinars. Who is willing to believe that such a punishment is educational, please, but anyone who knows how to add, subtract and account, sees that this bill is not aimed at improving the situation in this area. The right to access information of public importance is guaranteed by the Constitution and international conventions. You have to admit it represents one of the most significant ways to control the work of the government. What do we value this most significant way if he is ineffective in practice and does not produce results? Ensuring the public the work of the state authorities, above all, and all those arising from the competences of the state authorities and government as executive authority, are the necessary conditions to say – we are for Europe in Serbia and we are on a European path. It's not just about this law. We have such a case with many laws to protect citizens' rights and freedoms to European standards, but they, unfortunately, remain in good shape. It may be too harsh, but it's true if I say that the adoption of such laws that come down to mere form, and not in practice the exercise of these rights, can actually be called a kind of deception of citizens. The provisions of these laws may be less or more clear (here, like this, where do you refer us to the General Administrative Procedure Act), but when a legal mechanism does not exist as enforceable and when sanctions are so low, what else can we talk about rather than a clean waste of time for five hours of this debate, which in practice will not bring improvement? Why do I dare say this? For five years, the Constitutional Court has not been elected in full. You must admit that this makes it difficult for his work, given the number of unconstitutional laws or complaints that citizens are entitled to. Of the proposed candidates, ten, only four were elected instead of five, as foreseen by the Constitution. I am talking about what the Supreme Cassation Court has done recently and no explanation has been given at all, which is why the Court considers that all the other proposed candidates do not meet the requirements. The candidates, that is, were proposed by the High Council of the judiciary, or the Grand Prosecutor's Office. Is this, without reason, why the Constitutional Court's full capacity to work has not been chosen, in some way question the authority of the motionor? Maybe, I'm not. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act does not impose any sanctions on those in conflict of interest. Is it a sanction call to leave one of the functions, to declare it until one of the first April, to call, to initiate the procedure, if we are all witnesses of the situation that those who have dual functions have humbly prayed to be allowed to continue to perform those functions, for example, in accordance with Article 11. Government law, direct conflict of interest and incompatible functions? Normally, I'm talking about this law being violated by those representing the ruling party. Mr. Minister, for five years, the government has not been setting up positions as provided for by law, competition, but has done so without competition. Is that contrary to the Civil Service Act? Yes, it is. A month ago, that deadline expired again. Is this going to mean sanctions to someone, and is that a good example to those who don't give information to the trustee in the way we demand, expect, seek and say that this is a way to control the government's work? You know, in life it's said -- don't listen to what I'm saying, but look at what I'm doing, because that's how we set the best example. Does the Government set a good example with this bill of law, with such small penalties or with its very doing, that is, the behaviour of officials who are in conflict of interest, the appointment of people to positions without competition and so on? In addition, the fact that there were no conditions for the work of the State Auditing Institution, which produced a real public storm, produced a partial and incomplete report on government labour control in 2008. I think the only real punishment that would show the government's good intentions and determination would have to mean immediate resolution by force of the law of one who does not provide information of public importance to the trustee who requested them on a personal request or on a proposal from someone else. Not only that, but immediate resolution and banning public service work. What does that mean? This means that someone who performs an act of general interest gives public interest the right not to act according to the laws that are promised to the public of work. What does it look like on a practical case? In order not to be all in the story area, on August 23rd, interested applicants were, at the request of access to information of public importance, asking our unfortunate Civil Aviation Directorate for information and a copy of the document on height paid to members of the Council (I said it was five ministers per function), but also a legal act establishing the right to compensation and how to determine the amount of that fee; I said that it amounts to 10,000 euros annually is not insignificant. On 23 September, those same applicants lodged a complaint with the Public Information Commissioner on the basis of Article 22 because they were not supplied with information of public importance within the legal period required by the applicant. On 18 February 2010, the Trustee was given an urgent appeal. Although the decision-making deadline has expired, neither the solution nor the requested information has been obtained. Then the trustee is expected to act the way we do now with this law we want to regulate, but in an inadequate way. On 20 April 2010, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection shall be presented with a document on the non-implementation of the solution, where measures are expected to be taken in accordance with the law, in order to implement your solution. What's in accordance with the law? Let me repeat, under Article 276. The law on general administrative procedure, punishment from 5,000 to 20,000 dinars for the director who receives the salary of 500,000 dinars and members of the Council, who, I may say, have officially denied the fees they are to receive in the Council because they are named by law. I am convinced that this calling was the result of their responsibility not to receive compensation. The article said that the annual fee for the Directorate, for which a copy of the document was requested from the Commissioner, on the basis of which it was obtained, who determined the height, says that the fee of 10,000 euros annually means that one minister receives 5,000 euros per session. It is not a construction; according to the information available, the Council's session was held for the first time in the government on 24 February 2009 and it was the 14th session of the Council. There was a record of it on the directory site. In 2003, the Civil Aviation Directorate began work. By simple mathematics, for these 65 months, and five years and five months, 13 sessions were held, so it is a perfectly correct calculation to receive 5,000 euros in compensation per session. Three to four sessions over the past two years, I say, according to the information available. Any of this information would have to be on the site, if the public knew what those ministers were doing in office, what the public didn't have information about. We may all get the wrong impression, maybe they're doing a lot more, but we don't know that, and by law we have the right to know. In the procedure I've given you, which has been going on for the third year, we haven't been able to get any information about it. What's interesting? When, in a similar conflict of interest, the Minister of Energy, Mr. Skundric, was found, we received an interesting information, where Mr. Dacic said the only possible thing: "There are laws that make you to be something you are then called for." The man's absolutely right. The minister is absolutely right. What did you who passed these laws and laws do to stop naming people, or to appoint people as Government in places of conflict of interest, where they deal with jobs that they say are not very well understood whether the Directorate has the right to do what it does? I'm saying he's doing something illegal. We cannot prevent it as a public because through such bad laws we continue with such a practice where, according to the law on the availability of information, we cannot determine who has set this kind of compensation, why the Directorate sets out its own salaries, why at the time his salary cuts were not reduced, why it is pronounced to some European conventions of the 1960s and why they claim unfoundedly that Eurocontrol determines their salaries, if they can, apart from a certain number of employees, to hire the couriers and friends of prominent officials. Although it is only one member of the law, I have used my time in the name of the parliamentary group almost to the end, because this is one of the obvious examples where the law is a mere form, not an attempt to impose order. It usually happens where the biggest money is spent, where the biggest money is being poured; there are the darkest chambers for the public, in which no magic can be penetrated, let alone a law that provides for such criminal provisions. That is why we cannot vote for such a law, but we will advocate for the public the way we have proposed it with the amendment, by resolving by the law of officials who do not act under the necessary act of the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40647	Thank you. We move on to the schedule of the MPs according to the application for the word and I give the word to the MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40648	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about seven or eight months ago we discussed these amendments and amendments to the law. At that time, we established all the basics provided for by the Constitution in order to enable the President of the Republic to fulfil its constitutional obligations, i.e. to reward all the worthy citizens of our country with an orden or medal. Of course, we have also suggested certain amendments, and we are very pleased to have today in front of us and certain things from then on, when we turned our attention to certain names and certain amendments, so that it would be convenient for them to be an integral part of the law. The need to pass this law is indisputable, and the legislator clearly draws attention to the urgency of the procedure, so we believe that this is indeed more comprehensive than we adopted in September of last year. Of course, on this occasion we tried to point out certain shortcomings in this proposal, in our opinion, and we proposed one amendment, and in front of the parliamentary club I signed the amendment. I would draw attention, in the context of this amendment, to our repeated proposals to nevertheless retain or introduce new categories of work, the order of Nikola Tesla and the Order of Vuk and Dosite, which, of course, when the time comes, we will give a more detailed explanation. The previous decisions on medals and medals offered are, in our opinion, comprehensive. It can, of course, be more and more; about that some previous colleagues have said that, from this distance, the question of what is the historical value and the merit of one. That should really be left to the experts, and I have no doubt that the motioner has consulted with them. It's my job to say that in the voting day, we will support this bill, with a call from the motion to think about it a little bit, look and analyze whether there is a possibility that something like this, which we have suggested, will be adopted. I note once again, in the voting day, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40649	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have two laws ahead of us, but two amendments and additions to the laws already passed, and a very modest number of members changing in the law relating to the honours, amendments and additions of the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. A change has been offered that we were referring to from the opposition when the law was passed, and it was brought on 26 October 2009 and failed to live in the real life of Serbia. And that's when we said that this law devalues and somehow devalues the institution of awarding medals, because the award of medals above all, and the distinction of citizens and institutions in one country, should favour certain values, national, historical, cultural and traditional. It is these two amendments that you are now offering in this law, which we were then pointing to, as well as the importance of consulting heraldicists, who have a lot of expertise on this matter to say and to point out in their best intentions, that are very important. So the Order of Karadjordje's star is being introduced, which we know was established in 1904, and Medalja is being introduced for the courage "Milos Obilić". Now in these changes and additions you are calling for exactly what we were asking you to call and accept some amendments. Thus, it is being introduced to return to the best Serbian tradition, the most famous days of our history, the most famous of our personalities, as we would say – to return to ourselves. In that sense, we can support these two changes, but they are, again, insufficient. It is a shame that the law comes in the process, to be adopted, not to be heard at that moment for everything the opposition really offers constructively, and that in a few months now, a law that is not true or alive, we must change it precisely in that sense to accept some of what the opposition was offering. It could've been done better then, the law would've been more complete. And this is an insufficient change and you will see that we will have, perhaps even until the end of this call, more changes and additions. It will be the saddest relationship of the ruling coalition towards something that really needs to be out of every policy, which is the distinction of the well-deserved citizens and individuals. It can be called in practice something that we in pedagogy, which we do in pedagogical work, say – late wit. As someone with experience, personal and professional, I can tell you that a late mind does not exist; brains or you have or do not, when it is late, it does not exist. Other laws, i.e. amendments and additions to laws that are before us, are amendments to the information law of public importance. I'm just going to say for a moment that this is a slightly hypocritical relationship because we have an institution of the Commissioner for Public Information that we have created and established, and that, in his words, we have given no right to authority. What Mr. Minister said, who will now not publish information of public importance... Well, you know who in this country has the most interest in hiding information from public significance? It's exactly the government that brings all of this and that should be the most cooperative to this trustee of ours, and he's complaining about this particular institution the most. We see this attitude towards information of public importance, because we MPs also ask questions and ask for answers and some information that is of public importance to the lives of citizens, and very often we do not get those answers. Mrs President knows that we often ask a few times later to answer a question. I am one of the MPs who is selectively getting answers to questions: some ministers and ministries, yes, and some of them not. But this is something that is not arranged properly and this is something that is a simulation of democracy because we have no real information of public importance. I wouldn't even talk about what the role of national security is, I'm just going to finish this part where I want to say that state security isn't innocent at all, even though we know what it is and what its role has been through the history of Serbs and Serbia. I told one truth about it in one of my books by making an anagram of the term "state security" – "poor statelessness". We have no states, and we have great misery. It should be reconsidered regarding the functioning of these files, this information and what Serbs have, thanks to that national security, passed and suffered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40651	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40652	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are changing one law today, and that is already the third change of the law where we want to give the Trustee, whom we all have chosen together, to give him much more authority, to give him authority to punish those who do not, do not want, do not know, do not know or simply do not know to enforce the law and do the work for whom they are elected. Under this law, the Commissioner will be able to punish and there is now a debate on how adequate this punishment is and whether it is appropriate, whether it is appropriate for it to end up on a fine or perhaps also needs to be applied to other penalties, such as certain MPs' groups suggest a distance from office, and I would not be surprised if someone were to propose a ban on public work for a officials who violate the law until the end of this debate. Let's look at what the law really says and what the law really wants to do when it comes to this area. The power of the law, above all, lies in the reality that this law came from. In stable social circumstances, the law renews and repairs social life gradually and continuously, but failure is the greatest danger to every law. Sometimes in law, the will of the state is not enough, and the will of the people is needed. However, when we talk about the law on the availability of information of public importance, it is much more often needed by the state because the will of the people here exists. The features of a democratic state, a democratic society, which one society is treated as democratically by, among other things, the ability of the people to correct the state, to influence the state to improve it, to change its way of acting. Finally, it is a feature of democratic states that when the state receives a request from its citizens, it comes to a meeting. We will certainly make this possible by changing the law. This isn't just about fines. The fine shouldn't be an apriority subject to this debate, and the height of that fine, it's much more important to have a conviction that everyone gets, not before a court of law. With a certain degree of civil freedom won, much greater condemnation will be made by complete public opinion (which we have finally built in this country), much greater condemnation will be, not only in this Parliament and this building, for the man who does not want to act on the orders of the Trustee. It will take a lot of political will to bring all segments of society into action in such a way that when they get a question from the Commissioners, they meet. But here there is one absurdity of criticism not only by those who were in a position to pass this law when they were in power, but also by those who are now criticising this amendment at the moment when the ruling majority shows undeniable will and desire not to hide anything from the public and to apply the law. I just want to say a few more words about the Remarks Act. The Law on Features was passed six months ago and several of us MPs had then criticised certain provisions of this law, especially the names of the Order. I see that there is a certain concern when it comes to the medal for zealous service among certain parliamentary groups and MPs because many are calling for Serbian tradition, and then ask a public question – what is a medal for zealous service and what is it for? The medal for the zealous service was not established by the Democratic Party or the DOS, as someone tried to impute. The medal for zealous service was established in this country on 19 April 1913. It was assigned to two degrees, gold and silver, officers, officers and soldiers, as well as civil persons for defence and zealous service. Also, the medal was given to help the Serb army during the war. In 1922, a range of merits was expanded, and since then medals could also be obtained for outstanding and dedicated service in the peacetime. This medal was worn on the blue ribbon. I think that medal has its place today, when it comes to Serbian society and when it comes to citizens who do their job zealously, but not only in military or police service. Here, very often by certain MPs, there is a strange comparison and equalization of the word hero and hero. I am obliged to point out to my colleagues who do not understand the difference between the word hero and hero that heroism and heroism originate from the ancient world, but in the ancient world, there was a clear distinction between what heroism is, what is heroism. Some even today equalize the word "hero" with the word "hero." According to the ancient tradition, the hero is a man who is aware of his heroic endeavor when he does, is aware of his sacrifice and is consciously ready to lay his life on the altar of the Fatherland to do a heroic work that will impress not only the present but also the generations. A hero is a man who is unaware of his heroism. It happens sometimes in a battle in the ancient world that a man takes a spear, very swings that spear, unconscious of whom he shoots, and hits a very opposing army leader and then is celebrated as a hero. I'd pray that when we talk about heroes and heroes, at least we make that difference, because we don't need to equalize heroes and heroes. The heroes are still at a higher level, because they are aware of their heroic act, unlike the heroes. Finally, I have to say that perhaps the time has come for the Republic of Serbia to finally come after the adoption of the Law on Features of the Law and application, because we have enough people who have been in the past half-year, a year and years ago and have proven themselves in the fight against organised crime, in countering this organised crime. We've had a record seizure of cocaine, we've had record drug seizures, we've got people who are really doing their job for pay only, just for personal income. Perhaps the time has come for the Republic of Serbia to place these people on their chests and say, "Here, these are the individuals who have done their job in a safe, sacrificed, responsible, professional manner." These are individuals who pushed themselves to the edge of organised crime groups because they are constantly fighting crime, because it is one of the specifics that brought this coalition together when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40653	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40654	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not so long ago, in October of the month, we discussed the Law on Features, and several MPs, including Mr Dujovic, Mr Pelevic, gave their amendments to the Bill on Orders and to the proposal for a Law on Medals. I've also made amendments to that bill. What we all pointed out on that occasion is that it's probably the worst law or the worst Orden system ever made in our country, that it's not respect for the tradition and continuity of the Orden system, but it's just breaking that tradition. We certainly support these changes, because they were proposed in those amendments that we have given, but we will not vote for this law, because this law and these amendments are not fixed to the extent that it can be said to be good and to represent continuity with our tradition. Here's just a few notes. That's what we said in October of the month. We are a people who have their own history, our own tradition, and we had to go from the first medal to the Serbian people, which was established by Emperor Dusan. The previous Orden system respected it, and we had the Order of Germanic; whether it was called Orden Nemnjević or the Order of St. Stefan, as it was determined by Emperor Dusan in 1349 and by the additions of 1354... I think that would be very good and that would be the first link to our history, to our tradition. Next, today I heard from fellow MPs that not all historical periods are considered. In our proposal of October of the month in that amendment, we proposed Karadjordje's star, but we also suggested a variant of the Karadjordje's star with swords and no swords. If you've read, you know how it's regulated in other countries and other peoples, you know that there are medals that are assigned to the military, military faces and the same medals, with different features, assigned to civilian faces. That's why we suggested that Karadjorjev's sword star be assigned to the army, and no swords for merit in the civil world. Right after that, we suggested the Order of the Takow Cross. The truth is, as we had Karadjordjevic in Serbia, so did Obrenovice. If that was already there, we have to respect our history, our tradition, not to define ourselves, because this is how we defined ourselves for the fact that in our history only the Karadjordjevics were significant. Certainly, I also support the fellow who advocated and commented that this proposal did not contain the Order of the Takovo Cross, which was established in the Kingdom of Serbia. Furthermore, in this proposal, we had a proposal to make a change in the medal for courage and to add that it was Medalja for courage "Milos Obilic". It is obvious that the promoters did not think enough, because this proposal should remain – a medal for courage, and then there is, as a special medal that should only be in one degree, the "Milos Obilić" medal or the "Milos Obilić" medal, precisely because it is one of the most important medals in our history and tradition. Although it was established in Montenegro, such medals are no longer in Montenegro. But regarding some remarks I also heard here today, it was established in Serbia in 1913. It was also formerly just a medal for courage, so I think there should have been a medal for courage, but as a special medal – the "Milos Obilic" medal. When we talked in October, we said that the bill was inadmissiblely simplified; even these changes you made don't fix much. Gentlemen, in our history, we have had statesmen, military leaders, we have known people, scientists, writers, poets, who have celebrated the name of Serbia in various meridians, all over the world, and the medals themselves, whether medals or medals, play a double role: on the one hand, they are assigned to the merited individuals from certain areas, and on the other hand, the merited individuals from our closer and further history is shown respect for all that they have done for their people. Even this addition to this legislative proposal in October has not been done. The greats of the Serbian people have not paid any attention, in the sense that at least someone in the play is taken as an example and a recognition for the name of the medal. It is a kind of shame both in the past and in this proposal, because not only is such a proposal demeaning them and the works they have done for this people, but so is the humiliation of our entire people today. A bill like this seeks to publicly collapse and break ties, a historic continuity with the most important and well-deserved Serbs. Gentlemen, try to prove to me that's not the case. The previous Orden system was much better and could not be given these remarks as can be made for this proposal. What'd I say last time about the Many Medals? I'll say it again. After half a year, someone came to mind or, let me say, finally came to their head to correct at least one injustice. He says abandoning the Medals is a special story. If the bill is left without Obilic's medal as the traditional most respected medal in the Serbian people, then it is obviously a disrespect, even a mockery of military honor, a glorious Serb army, all the bearers of this medal, their descendants, the famous Serbian dukes, Negos, his work, the Serbs in general, the Kosovo covenant in his knightly sense, as the highest act. Six months, gentlemen, this should have occurred to you. How long will it take for you to finally have one law, which should be completely deprived of any ideological motives, to be passed and that there is no longer a need in the future, even when it comes to the law of distinction, no matter who sits in this assembly, who is head of state and head of government, to change it? The previous Orden system was getting closer to that goal, but you're also far from it with these corrections. That proposal was made in a hurry. This attempt to improve in any case I welcome, but it's incomplete. We're still staying where we were six months ago. Although we welcome this attempt, this remains an attempt. We're staying on those suggestions we made back in October, which you didn't respect. If you had respected them, even if you had respected most of what was proposed only by the SNS, here, even if you had adopted much of what our colleague Mr Sasa Dujovic had suggested, we would have been pleased with the team, because then this Orden system would have drawn closer to what is the real need of the Serbian state. This is how it stays to do in some other time what you government people couldn't do on two occasions. Why couldn't you do that? Is there no expert in our country that could historically reflect the importance of our statesmen, our military leaders and our scientists? In fact, when it comes to history, you shouldn't have invented anything. All you had to do was respect something that already existed in our history, in our tradition, to sort it out in some order and meaning, so you wouldn't leave anyone out and skip. If you'd done so, then perhaps this new order that you proposed in the previous bill wouldn't be necessary, but we don't think it's too much. As for these medals for the long-standing zealous service, and I agree there; perhaps even with that one medal that speaks of merits in the field of defence and security, maybe he could have had that supplement, because similar solutions were also in the previous Orden system. The medal could be, as you suggested, a unique medal for the long-standing zealous service, which would apply to the service in all state bodies, including the military. Or, for those assigned to the army for longtime zealous service, as was the case in the previous Orden system, suggest it be for 10, 20, 30 or 40 years of service in certain bodies. Everything you've suggested through these two changes is acceptable, but it's a little bit so we can support this proposal, because we still have to tell you that you're halfway there. You'd have to explain your motives why these aren't the comprehensive changes to that October bill and why you didn't do it in a way that we put an ad act on this, that we don't have to change these markings with every change of government, or that we don't have to change the orderly systems. As for the Serbian Progressive Party, it will not vote in favour of this legislative proposal, because we believe it is far from being comprehensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40655	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40656	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the DSS Group is not against these amendments to the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Matter. We believe that such changes should be made because the role of the Trustee is further strengthened, in particular with regard to its control and corrective function, when it comes to the exercise of the right to access information of public importance. We just don't understand why these changes weren't adopted in December last year, when this bill was on the agenda. To be clear, it is not clear to me why the amendments of my parliamentary group that have treated this matter in the same way that the bill of law has now done. At the very least, we could have achieved that if for a little more than five months of this change existed in the law and this kind of debate today would not be necessary. Is there any reason why we should be looking for any excess of the proposal coming from the opposition in advance to be rejected or is there a reason in something else? It is not good, of course, for the relations between the authorities and the opposition, nor for the very proposal for a law whose quality is being condemned because it is not allowed to be corrected in this way. And it's also a bit surprising that this urgency in its passing, precisely for the reason I've now explained. Of course, there was no awareness at that time of the importance of passing these amendments to the law, but now, overnight, that consciousness became visible and it was realized that these amendments were more than necessary today. However, it is important for the Commissioner to finally receive the powers conferred on him by these amendments, and they refer to the powers to enforce the administrative solutions he has made in the second degree. However, today's topic on the agenda, as regards this bill, raises another question, which, I would say, is far more important than the changes to these laws themselves, and concerns the country's attitude towards independent bodies in the state, which, in the majority or in most democratic societies, should represent the fourth branch of government to which it is in the job description that citizens or on behalf of citizens are controlling and overseeing the other three branches of government. Speaking of which, the situation in Serbia is a little different. Just enough to count several independent bodies such as, say, the State Audit Authority, the Competition Commission, the High Council of the judiciary, the State Greater Prosecutors, and we also have the Commissioner, who we are talking about today, the Ombudsman and the earlier Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, to conclude that they or they have not received adequate powers that make them unpowerful and quite invisible to the public or are, on the other hand, under the express supervision of the executive authority. Not to mention that many of these independent institutions don't have adequate working conditions for the day, that they don't own rooms and that they're still not qualified. I'll take, for example, only the State Auditing Institution. The State Audit Institute Act was passed five years ago, but it still does not function in its full capacity. As far as I know, the DRI has six auditors, several associates, and in order to carry out its duties as it should be effective and efficient, it is necessary that at least at this point there are five, six times more auditors than it is today. To illustrate: how few auditors best show the fact that a bank's financial report controls ten auditors per month, or a month and a half. Of course, when we talk about DRI, then we wouldn't be too much of the claims that are going in the direction of the DRI criticism, which is that during her term, from the moment she was formed to today, so, as far as the 2008 report is concerned, she only managed to control a fifth of the state institutions. I wouldn't be here any longer, since this is the next item of the agenda, but I'm going to say a few words about another independent body. It is about the Competition Protection Commission, whose president said that the commission is in fact handcuffed in Serbia when it comes to the anti-monopoly fight, because they do not have mechanisms to break these monopolies. At the very least, the law that deals with this area and the law that regulates it, the Law on the Protection of Competition, has been passed, but it is not applicable because the sublegal act has not yet been passed, which makes it impossible to apply it, or prevents the commission itself from expressing the measures, which is why it is factually and formed. On the other hand, the commission has been working in the brig since 2 April 2009. In December of last year, a contest was launched for members of the Council and for the president of the Council of the Commission, but parliament itself has not yet found it appropriate to declare these proposals and to finally enable the Competition Commission to work in a smooth manner. When we talk about all of these independent institutions, the question arises whether, after all those disdains and criticisms, anything should be said about the High Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, since we know that they have been working from the very beginning in the back of the system and that the whole process of judicial reform has been carried out in the back of the system? Our public is well aware of the failed reform of the judicial system, which has been confirmed as such by EU representatives. In his report, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said that the judge's re-election process itself revealed many shortcomings in the composition itself, and of course the independence of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. In his report, he further stated that he asked representatives of the Serbian authorities to examine the entire election of judges and prosecutors in one way that is adequate, as he was not conducted transparently, independently and impartially. Of course, I'm not going to talk about all the shortcomings that the High Council of the Judiciary has shown in this case, but I'm going to say, does the High Council of the judiciary, in addition to all the shortcomings that the public had the opportunity to inform themselves on time, still carry the epithet of an independent and professional body? Furthermore, how much are the decisions of the earlier Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and today, the Anti-Corruption Agency, when it comes to dual functions? We have an example of the duchy parliament: we know that a large number of officials, i.e. MPs in the duchy parliament, still have dual functions and that, regardless of whether the deadline for determining whether to hold one or another function has long passed (the deadline was April 1st), it does not occur to them to withdraw from one of these two functions. Of course, it's not worrying. What is worrying is what the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing. The Agency either does nothing or does not do enough, thus only strengthening the positions of the duchy MPs. In this way, not only are double standards introduced, because the law, on the one hand, applies to some MPs, and on the other hand does not apply, but it calls into question the scope of the Anti-Corruption Agency itself. I have no other reason than to be led to the thought that the Agency deliberately bypasses that provision that says to the MP or any other official who is in conflict of interest, and now has over 2,000, ceases by force of the law that function he later entered. The deadline of April 1st has long passed, and we still have 2,000 officials in Serbia who are in conflict of interest and do not think of giving up one of these functions. This is a very short picture of the functioning of independent bodies in Serbia and best says how weak they are or under the influence of politics. Of course, in order to join the European Union, the Serbian government will do everything possible to make these independent bodies look very good on paper, but in practice their reach is almost non-existent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40657	National MP Petar Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40658	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin my presentation, I'd like to ask you, since I've been out of the room, Madam President, are the laws on amendments to the law on distinctions and information of public interest still on the agenda? They did. Thank you. I can focus my exposure on this agenda point. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the proposal and the other law in the voting day, regardless of the fact that we have specific suggestions and objections to the drafts of these laws. In short, I'll try to expose them. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Features, few of us wonders, we from the SPS-JS parliamentary group, why in the past, when we have adopted the basic text of the law, are not slightly more carefully discussed amendments to this parliamentary group, which relate to certain members of the law; I am sure that this law would not now be on the agenda, because we see that more than 80% of the amendments of this parliamentary group, which have not been taken into consideration and have not been accepted, are now incorporated into the text of the amended Law on Features. I guess that's not gonna happen. When it comes to the second law, the law on amendments and additions to the law on the availability of information of public importance, it is a single amendment and, in our opinion, only one legal question is raised. It is said in the proposal to amend this law that the solutions of the Commissioners are binding, final and executive and can only be disputed in court proceedings. At the same time, it is arranged for this law to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the “Official Messenger”. Prosecution for law-making is said that the government will subsequently determine a body that will assist the trustee in order to implement his solution. There is a discrepancy with regard to the time and ability to implement these solutions that the Trustee will make, so I think the Ministry should make certain decisions as soon as possible and determine the authority that will assist the Trustee in order to make decisions that are final, executive and binding. On the other hand, I can't help but comment on the availability of information. Today, unfortunately, we have a case that many local self-governments, I can talk about local self-government in Jagodina, are overwhelmed by requests for certain information that the applicant considers to be information of public importance, so that they literally need to form special services that need to collect information. Imagine, we had a case where a man from Leskovec, who works for an organ (no matter, I won't advertise that organization), asked to be given information for three years back how much was spent on official travels, journals, gasoline, and at the time of the local self-government budget for next year. This means that part of the body of the budget should spend its time collecting that information for the last three years. If he does not, the Commissioner will punish a person who is responsible, or the head of local self - government, for that. I think that at that time interval it should be possible to provide exact, tax-based lists of information of public importance. Imagine someone from Subotica looking for information for a Store or Black Grass, a municipality, about who spent the money on gasoline, official travels. I don't think it matters to that part of Serbia what's going on out there. Just to avoid wasting both time and money and paper on this without at the same time breaking the law on the availability of information. Okay, these are some remarks based on what's going on in practice. I would pray that in the next period, the Ministry has this in mind and that, when preparing the new text of the law or new amendments, it does not bypass them. Finally, to say once again that, regardless of the remarks made, the SPS-JS Group will support both draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40659	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40660	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since this really turns out to be a bit of a monothon, as if it were some memorial session, everyone knows and can't say. A moment ago, you misread SRS MPs when they showed you a book where there was a set of information of public importance. These are all follows by Vojislav Seselj from 1982 until 2003, so I recommend that you buy one dozen sets for the Library of the National Assembly, so that people are informed, and you can buy it yourself, it's not very expensive, you can take it. But let me go back to this bill. First, it is about amending the Law on free access to information of public importance. At first, I must say that even in this proposal, the rule of law demonstrates heroism, but not humanity – protects itself, not protects citizens, nor protects the opposition from itself. Here's proof: can anyone tell us what the Commissioner for Information is of public importance? No one alive in this country can give you a definition of what he is. What kind of organ is that? Why? Because it doesn't come from the RS Constitution as a state body. It occurred to someone to prescribe the trustee's law and to write in law that it was an independent and independent state body. If it is an independent and independent state body, why does the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government apply for an infringement procedure for the infringement of this law? Why doesn't the Commissioner do this as an independent and independent state body? It doesn't work because it's not a state organ. You can't define it. Do you know that this trustee has two groups of jobs? The first group refers to information and the second to the protection of personal data. In that second part of the business, which was transferred to him a year ago, the Trustee performs both surveillance and inspection supervision, and in this section, with regard to information of public importance, there is no surveillance, but rather a second-degree administrative authority. You are now asking us to participate in something that is unacceptable, not only from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also from the point of view of the Law on State Administration. There's a Ministry Act. Twenty-four ministries and thirteen special organizations. How is the state administration regulated? Well, remember, you voted that State Administration Act. The authorities of the state administration are: ministries, administration bodies within the Ministry and a special organisation. Administration bodies may be: administrations, inspectorates and directorates. Special organizations are secretaries and seducers. This is where the government works. Is the matter of this law a matter of state administration? Well, it is, but it's not a state body, it's a quasi-state body. It's not even an independent regulatory body. It can't be a public agency, it can't be an institution, it can't be a public enterprise. What? Nothing. This has nothing to do with 70 employees and this year is due to spend 115,000 thousand dinars, and for the first four months they have already spent 14.5 million dinars. Now they're taking some strangers to do this job. Jututun souphahaha, as Dragon Jova would say. You're making something so it can't work. You want to act to meet the conditions according to the "juhahaha" of the European Union. To wave the law, here's the law, we fulfilled our obligation, we took some money, we proved that we spent that money to make something. And what did you do? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. That's our problem, what we're talking about is the missing thing. Imagine, one caller has two groups of jobs within its jurisdiction: one is the protection of personal data, where he performs both surveillance and inspection, and has another group of jobs where these jobs do not work, but the inspection is carried out by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. What are we talking about here today? That we're taking information out of the Internet or these NGOs who want some big noises to be passed on to financials from abroad or government finances to control the situation in the country. That is, the capillary fact – on several sides independent experts, experts, free-minded, scribes should turn and write. You have more Commissioners and Protectors in the media than the Prime Minister. When you read what's written in the media, how they perform, they're angry opponents of the government. How does the government put up with them? She's supposed to put up with them. That's what we put up with with winking. Who's that? Someone said here, those secret services. That's why this book is important. Secret Service. Nothing is regulated until the end. Why? It can't be regulated. There's got to be an open space to go. Well, you've passed the law to ask the Leskovac municipality for information, even though it may be pointless. You've passed that regulation. I have to say that this man doing trustee's work for this information of public importance, normably speaking, is doing a very correct job. He knows that his role has not been defined, and those sublegal acts that need to be passed by him in the form of regulations, orders or instructions, do not go beyond that. He receives workers under the law that regulates the position of state service, but it is not a state body. The state authorities are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The trustee's gone. Independence and independence gave him one law, so he is now independent and independent in both a group of jobs and other jobs. In that group of jobs there are teeth, in this group of jobs there are no teeth, so now he needs to be the authority of the administration to carry out his second-degree solution. At the same time, 140 infringements or requests for the initiation of a misdemeanour proceedings shall be submitted by the Ministry. Now we think -- heroism, humanity, we've heard about heroes and heroin and heroes, we've heard a lot of things here, but it's not the law, it doesn't have a serious legal norm. Jututun souphahaha, as Dragon Jova would say. We should now be thrilled that European laws are changing even more European "juhahaha" laws for six months. How long? Perhaps in the next amendment to this Law on Features you will introduce a feature that would have the visual appearance of the People's Assembly that is burning, underneath which you will put one of the DOS leaders. Who'd get that? Those who came to steal and burn. We should applaud again. For what? Until a moment ago, people were complaining about how we should abide by tradition, continuity. Well, until a few days ago, you were boasting about discontinuity, in every way, in every place. Some people have given up the past, however, there is, their past has been recorded, and they have been the subject of observation. Here it is, in this book, meaning four books, "Police File", which refers to Vojislav Seselj. We now need to cooperate here without knowing what the ultimate goal of this operation is. What is the ultimate objective of this operation in this law? The ultimate goal of the operation is to legalise the consumption of about 115,000 dinars this year at the position of the Commissioner for Public Information, to increase the service from 70 to a little more. What's his job if he doesn't get information in the first degree? Address the trustee, he makes some kind of decision, obliges the public authority to deliver that information. If he doesn't deliver, he'll be able to perform, demand and execute an administrative execution. Now we're empowering him for administrative execution, and we're not giving him the opportunity to be the initiator of a misdemeanor procedure. What bright mind could come up with? How could you come up with that, explain it to me. Do you have the Secretariat for Law in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? How could this have gotten to the National Assembly? The legal system of the Republic of Serbia is completely destroyed here. However, there are those who made the most agencies so they criticize the concept of agencies, they remembered. It's a good thing they remembered. Where's the state here? Can someone leave this stuff to someone who's not a state organ? Who is the guarantee of human rights in the Republic of Serbia? State. Why does the state leave it to someone else? It is not the State's trustee for information of public importance, since it does not have that authority. Is he a legal person? You passed the Law on State Administration and you wrote – and the authorities within the Ministry can obtain legal personality status, special organisations can also obtain legal personality status, only need to determine that by law. They are established by law, and we have laws to say -- will be established and a founding act will be passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the last session, we had a couple of such laws. Where's the Constitutional Court to report for this? Someone just said that the issue of the Constitutional Court is not a subject. It's a theme. Here, several months ago for the Constitutional Court judge, this assembly elected a man for a three-year term, since he was first hired to be a judge, a certain Bratislav Djokic. Your assistant was. A few days ago, he took an oath for a Constitutional Court judge. So, by definition, the intern judge, the minor. The Supreme Council of the judiciary has yet to decide on its continuity and sustainability. They suggested it and immediately placed it there in the Constitutional Court. It meets the conditions formally, it has 40 years and 15 years of work experience. Well, half the lawyers in this assembly meet this condition. He went there only to be a flow water heater, to head for the Constitutional Court. Then we wonder why the Constitutional Court makes these decisions. The President of the Constitutional Court is important to that and the chain around the neck, and the decision... How can decisions be made and 20 and a few days have no decisions? No one can read what they wrote. What kind of Constitutional Court is that? Who did these people choose as Constitutional Court judges? Why not resolve that when they demonstrate at every turn that they do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? But they think they can disobey Serbia's constitution because it does not respect the government of the Republic of Serbia either. And here, jututun soup. We can't find the president in the country. He's just running abroad. Now the Prime Minister has started, and he's just running away. They don't want to deal with problems. They're asked to initiate, to solve the problem. When we start, replace Todorovic, the chairman of the Security Committee, and after six days suggest exactly the same agenda as you took him down. So, where's this going to come out? If we want to make that situation so that we have it covered formally, and that no law is respected, you don't have to try, we already have it. We already have that. As far as these medals are concerned, I don't know, there were so many amendments when that law was passed, you rejected them all. Oh, you didn't want to hear it. It's been six months, and you're returning these amendments now in the form of amendments and additions to the Law on Features. How do you run this policy? What is the power of conclusion, what logic is present in these people who run the state? Is there any logic, is there any common sense? How long do you think you're inviting us for three months to talk about the same law? I've made only part of the complaints about this law regarding free access to information, which we've been talking about for years. Every time he was that law we said – aman, people, it's not a state body, it's not defined, it's not arranged. I can understand that you have animosity to some of the old regulations passed by an international regime, so you can't agree a new law with that regulation, compatibility can't exist, but your law on state administration is your law on ministries, your law on government, it's your Law on civil servants, it's your law on free access to information. Your laws don't talk to each other. They don't talk to each other. How is it possible for someone to be an independent state body without being authorized to file a criminal report? Explain to me, please, that. We had this situation in the National Assembly, while there was some jurisdiction of the National Assembly over the Law on the financing of political parties, so smart Djelic wrote – the Committee of the National Assembly is launching a misdemeanour procedure. Immediately the Ministry of State Administration gave an interpretation and it is said – the Committee of the National Assembly is a working body, there is no status or state authority, nor a legal person, can initiate the procedure. So, today's law passed, the next day's interpretation, the law doesn't apply. It's the same thing now. It's exactly the same thing. Let's make a chamber or communicative atmosphere here, respected, respected, glad to see you, we've seen each other, we've changed our ties, we're all fine, we're European, we're soupy. And where does that lead, people? We were in time to tell what was wrong, what would come out as a boomerang, what couldn't be solved. Here's the goal - the worse, the better. The worse it gets to the people, the better for some individuals, not all of them. We have a situation today that slowly but certainly tycoons and organized crime, and there can be a sign of equality, for money I can do anything. They're not interested in political parties. In the media, you've made political parties not even supposed to exist. Then you will have the parliamentary group Miskovic, the parliamentary group Beko, the parliamentary group Darko Saric, the Cane parliamentary group, can also have Milo's parliamentary group here. Make a government, Cvetkovic goes, Tadic goes, they bring in someone else for the president of the government and the state. All democratic, soupy. Juhuhuhuhu, yes, so. Where are you taking the state? In time, you've been warned of all this, but you're stuck, you're falling apart. People can't concentrate anymore. What is this system of values that applies? Now the Citizens' Protector will again, so this lady from the Anti-Corruption Agency, the one Stojljkovic, the professor, is in sixteen agencies, he is everywhere, for collective negotiations and for trade unions, for all things he is an expert at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and for fighting corruption, and for that Cupic "resisting", and so he. You also have that Blagojevic, he didn't even graduate from college, but as a scientist in CESID, he presents himself. Scientists, he's scientifically reviewing election laws, and he hasn't finished college yet! How long, people, right? What kind of message do you send to those kids who need to finish school, what kind of message do you send to those who need to get hired? Then you wonder what's going on in the streets, in the stadiums, in the family. Guilty media. It's not the media's fault. You're instructing the media what they need to write. If there's any point in what I've said, it'll be fine, but I'm a year old and I have to call myself a little bit of experience – a dark hat of all this, you're falling into ruin. Come on, you guys, you're breaking up, but you're leading the country to ruin, and that hurts me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40661	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40662	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are talking about the draft law amending the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia, it is a fact that this bill renews certain distinctions in line with the decades-old tradition in our country. The most significant change is that the Order of the Karadjorjev Star is being restored. The Order of the Karadjordje's stars under the bill has three degrees and is awarded for the special merits and successes in representing the state and its citizens. The Order of the Star of Karadjordje was originally established in Serbia in 1904 on the day of the 100th anniversary of the First Serbian uprising, in honor of the leader of the First Serbian uprising as a figure symbolising the creation of a modern Serbian state. The restoration of this Order highlights the rich tradition of our Orden system and provides for its continuity. It is these amendments to the law that we return to our decades-old tradition. With regard to the second medal, which is the Medal of Courage "Milos Obilić", it should be pointed out that the medal has two degrees (gold and silver medal) and that it is awarded for works in which personal courage has come or for works in which extraordinary courage and self-pregor has been expressed in extremely dangerous situations in saving human lives and material goods. The most adequate name is Medalja for courage "Milos Obilic", because for the first time such a medal, the gold medal of Obilić, appeared during Negos in 1847, so that in the Kingdom of Serbia the Medal of Courage "Milos Obilic" was established in 1913. With regard to the second draft law, which is the draft law amending the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, I think it is necessary here to say once again that the basis for this bill is found in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 51(2), where the citizens' right to be informed is explicitly highlighted: "Every one has the right to access to data owned by state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority, in accordance with the law. “ Just on the basis of the Constitution, our basic act, and not on the basis of the will of any individual, group of people or any other, we try, try and succeed in making all the information that is of public importance available to as many citizens as possible, knowing all that is of public interest, because I believe that in the interests of the state, it is in the interest of every citizen to know all about public affairs, what the word itself says is of public interest. The fact is that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government launched as many as 140 infringements where someone who thought it was above the state did not give information as prescribed by the regulations. However, the state, the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in view of the current legal solution, is trying to improve this legal solution and this very proposal for a law amending the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matter is going towards an even greater expansion of citizens' ability to learn all that is in their interest, to allow for the better work of the Commissioner for Information to be made public. I am convinced that following this bill's vote, the next time we read the Commissioner's report on information of public importance, we will have information that an even greater public has been achieved in the work of state and all other bodies and organisations in our country. I believe that this very serious and responsible work will be the basis for further democratisation of our society. The proposal to amend this law stipulates that the solutions made by the Commissioner for Information are binding, final and executive, and that the Government, in the case of a need, provides for the execution of the trustee's solution and that it can determine how to implement the solution closer. So, I repeat, the solutions of the Commissioner are binding, final and executive and there is no more twisting. If necessary for the government to help, this law provides for the possibility that the Government, at the request of the Commissioner, will assist in the process of administrative execution of the trustee's solution. In any event, regardless of the possibility of making an appeal concerning enforcement, it is possible to protect the right that can be exercised in a judicial procedure. It is the foundation of democracy, to ensure in any case independence of all branches of government in our country. Regardless of the discussions that were held today during the principle debate, I expect that after considering the amendments submitted to these laws, the vast majority of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt both laws, which I suggest because I consider them useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40663	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40664	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here in the debate on two laws that again represent amendments to laws that have been almost passed, so we, if we analyzed, have had a few laws where we are considering changes and additions. These are the Law on Regional Development, the Law on Free Access to Information, the Order, the Law on Scientific Research, the Innovation Work, not to mention. The question arises, is it really necessary for us to bring amendments and additions to the law in such a short period of time? It certainly reflects the appropriate, superficial relationship of the government in the adoption of some laws. When looking at these laws that we are considering here, it is mostly at the end of each law that law enforcement does not cost or is foreseen by budget. Me and the SNS are interested in doing the math on whether that's the case. If we are considering some laws, or changes in a few months twice, it costs both this country and these citizens, because we spend some time here that costs, using time to argue in principle and amendments. Amendments and additions to the law reflect that in some preliminary, first law-making act or not well done, so the government itself realized that... And that is the biggest irony, which is usually when considering the draft law, the opposition submits amendments, which are most often not adopted, that, as is now happening in the debate, the corresponding amendments were adopted, and then the glare was rejected, with a superficial or inadequate explanation. At first, I wanted to comment that this manner should change. There are objective circumstances when some laws are amended, but in situations where they are costing this country and citizens needlessly, so it is not always true that paragraph at the end of the law that law enforcement costs nothing. It costs and could certainly be calculated as much as in one year these days of work cost this country and its citizens, when we are making changes to the laws that are superficially done in some segments. These two laws that are on the agenda, and I'm going to comment directly on the Decoration Act... He was adopted on 26th. Ten. In 2009. Here's the text and we now have, after not six months, amendments and additions to the law. At that time, we as the SNS Parliament Club, you heard from General Delic, submitted amendments not only to us, but to all opposition parties, and even representatives of the ruling coalition, who were not respected. As a matter of fact, the bill that was made must have been done superficially; was it considered to be some minor law, under the quote... But it's not exactly what it looks like. Why? Not all other states would build this Orden system, build an orderly tradition, including our country, that the Orden system does not indicate that the state cares about the merits and efforts of individuals. On the other hand, individuals who receive these medals and medals are glad and have satisfaction that the state and the people know how to appreciate it. I don't want to talk about messages. So this Orden system isn't something that's superficial. That law was so passed, with a lot of objections, with a lot of discussions that we had back then. We said we welcome these changes in terms of reintroducing Karadjordje's star and the name Milos Obilić, but it is only a partial adjustment of the law which is essentially not good again. This law absolutely, we already said, should not bear party color. This ordnance law was supposed to be done by expert teams, built into our tradition, our history. Let our history be in discontinuity, but we still have history, a thousand years old. The experts should have properly... Especially what historians say has passed a sufficient historical distance that all historical periods in the past are thoroughly processed and that this Orden system is built with respect to our entire history, our traditions, all of our values. And this current state, even though it is modern and certainly has some other, more modern approaches, has to be founded, and that is what other MPs have said, in some tradition and history, which is clearly not embedded in this Orden system properly. We also have objections, practically not us, but the heraldists believe... I will not quote one of them who said that although it is good that these two items are being changed, the star of Karajordje and Orden "Milos Obilić", in general, does not reflect our tradition and that it is bad from the first to the last attitude. This segment should once be done properly and removed from the agenda, because the fact is, as some MPs have said, in our tradition, history has many periods, some well-deserved people, from the Obrenović dynasty and Karadjordjevic, to the deserved people who are not embedded in this Orden system, and if we think that we can rightly resolve this should certainly, not with such a partial... So, we welcome the return of Karadjordje's star and Orden Milos Obilić. Those amendments, you heard, we endured in October; not just us, but all the opposition parties. Now, after six months, an ex-wise mind. Why? It was likely in some expert interpretations that it was thought to be done. We welcome this amendment and the introduction, the return of this segment of our history and tradition, but as SNS, we believe that this is not a good law, that all elements should be respected and brought about by an orderly system that will be without the influence of any political parties in the future or any political influence, regardless of who comes to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40665	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40666	I've been trying to establish a relationship for a long time and figure out what reason these two points are, about the traits and the amendments to the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning, connected to one, but now I'm starting to believe that this is because, given the conditions in which it works, the trustee is going to be one of the competitors. This whole Shabic case looks like a movie called "Kramer v. Kramer". In the role of the husband who is fighting for the child during the divorce is not Dustin Hoffman, but Rodoljub Sabic. In the role of the woman, who, during the same divorce, is blasting all her husband's efforts to act as a good and responsible father, is not Meryl Stripe, but the Serbian government. And, of course, as a child, is the people of Serbia. Both parties claim that all they do is work in the interest and for the welfare of the child. Reading reports from the Commissioner's website on information of public importance, which, of course, is further attached and trusty for the protection of personal data, you understand why it is no longer similar. A lot, brother, got involved in his business. Indeed, it is a paradox, if the ruling majority behaves this way toward the one she chose, what would it be like to have the trustee of the opposition? Or anyone who starts seriously and responsibly does the job he's assigned becomes an opposition. Instead of being punished by officials, Sabic was punished. And how could it not, when he gave the following statements: “A successful transition, the establishment of an orderly and responsible state and government requires people who have been elected and paid to perform public functions, especially when it comes to carrying out legal obligations, to be preceded by a positive example. If they do not do so, but act the other way around and do not even carry out the fundamental obligations set out in the law, then it is not only logical but also necessary for them to carry out appropriate legal conventions," Sabic stressed. "I have repeatedly pointed out that such a relationship, in which responsibility is not a rule but a rare exception, is an invitation to break the law." You don't need to be suspicious enough to figure out who Mr. Shabic thinks of from this. Furthermore, on 28 October 2009, an independent supervisory authority was appointed then the Trustee for free access to information of public importance; it was then attached to it to be a trustee for the protection of personal data. The National Assembly quickly, by adopting an appropriate act, has created assumptions for a necessary significant increase in the number of employees, but due to the government's rigid stand on conditioned incomprehensible failures by the Ministry of Finance, the Trustee has worked all year long with five times the number of associates scheduled 12 out of 69. He was unable to hire any new co-worker for personal data protection and worked them, in fact, improvised them, with the same small-scale team that he previously worked with only job related to free access to information. Furthermore, what does Mr. Sabic say on January 29th? The Commissioner for Public Information prescribed as a deadline for the delivery of a report on the functioning of the public authority first on 31 December, then on 20 January. What happened? Out of about three thousand public authorities, only 750 reportedly by the day Sabic spoke on January 29th 2009. But what is the highlight and what Sabic says is difficult to understand is that of the 24 ministries, eight of them have not submitted the report. Of course, there are also those ministries that have failed to carry out a formal legal obligation to publish a labour informant. Sabic now digs his own cancer by publishing the article "Depreciation and Injustice", and says: "It would be incomparable for members of the government to make their decision to banish things to the end instead of statements for the media confirming the active support of the initiative recently filed by Transparency of Serbia, which requires an extension of the limitation period for the launch and conduct of the misdemeanor procedure. The Law on Infringements provides that the procedure cannot be initiated if one year has passed since the offence was committed, and that it cannot be done at all if it takes twice as long as the deadline provided for the ageing of the prosecution. In fact, there is no doubt that the failure to adopt an initiative to extend the limitation period is a reason to lack the responsibility of the powerful, in addition to the overload of the law enforcement authorities, the unpreparedness to engage in these delicate objects and the short deadlines of the act of obsolescence. “ (President: You will, please, bring the end. In the end, Sabic says: “It would allow for the removal of a lack of logic and injustice, because if someone is to avoid responsibility for breaking the law because of obsolescence, it would be more logical and just to be a citizen rather than a government, people chosen and paid just to ensure the application of the law. “
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40667	National MP Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40668	Fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the draft law amending the Law on Free Access to Public Information does not mention the availability of information of public importance in the scientific field, which is mostly stored in archives, which are often unreachable to the scientific public after the expiry of the prescribed archivist period of 30 years, and in some fund limits up to 50 years. Unfortunately, no special Republic law on archives and archival activity has been passed to this day. During his time, Minister Bradic pledged to pass one over the required law on archives. We're waiting for him to do it, I guess his promise will come true. This extremely important work for the state and today is well carried out transparently, mainly through practices from earlier periods, minors through archival tradition and surrender, since there is simply no mentioned legal regulation. It should be pointed out that the law applies is the only outdated, pre-topic Act on the protection of cultural goods from the 1970s, which regulates the work of institutions in the field of culture, as well as archives. It is no longer in application of the Law on the Archives of Yugoslavia, which has been of federal, Yugoslav importance and which has nevertheless fully regulated specific issues related to archival activity, i.e. the availability of information of public importance to scientists. It should also point out that archival information of public importance for scientists has been destroyed and selected, especially in the Broz dictatorship period. The tragic history of the Serbian people, filled with numerous wars and political conflicts, has contributed to the destruction and disappearance of the good part of the archive file. In addition to the unfavourable war circumstances, the destruction and inaccessibility of documents contributed to the Yugoslav and Serbian authorities, particularly the totalitarian regime of the aforementioned Josip Broz, which carried out a real storm of unmatched archival documentation. The destruction of the capital archive building destroyed the truth about the history of the Serbian people, better told the truth about the Serbian people's suffering. Such capital archives for the first years after the war ended in the technological process of processing, recycling of paper. The historian Dr. Srdjan Cvetkovic came up with data on the revision and destruction, the burning of documents in 1966, during the 1970s and after 5 October 2000. A large audit of the archives of the State Security Service after the removal of Aleksandar Rankovic testifys to the extensive internal document of the State Security Service, which was stored in the Yugoslav Archives. In total, about five kilometers of Udjuba documents have been burned, testifying to the abuses of security services and its illegal operation since 1944. In the process of revision, the document is divided into three groups: documents remaining in the archives of the State Security Service, documents which have been submitted to military services, archives and scientific institutions and compromising documents for certain comrades, which are designated for complete destruction. By the end of 1968 2,141,155 files of 2,754,923 files were burned and destroyed. From the Public Security Service, the JNA Security Service has submitted 153.598 documents to the scientific institutions and archives. Most of the Gestapo archives and special police from the wartime have been awarded to the Belgrade City Archives, whose availability has been recently ruled by Director Branko Prpa. The press often wrote about the destruction of SDB documents. In the 1980s, the Alliance for the Protection of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Serbia decided to destroy the file. During Radmil Bogdanovic's 1991 ministry, decisions were reportedly made to burn the files of Serb dissidents and so on. nationalists, including the files of Professor Dr. Seselj. The latest destruction of the file took place after 5 October 2000, when the State Security Service destroyed 11-490 documents from October to December 2000 alone in the SDB headquarters in Belgrade. That's about 35,000 pages. The destruction of information of public, political and scientific importance was also carried out in the post-itic era, in times of political and ideological breakdowns and of changes caused by them in the state. Personally, as an archivist of the Yugoslav Archives, I was an eyewitness to the mass, quick-scissor in the time of Milosevic's era, and it was by the dictatorship of the then director of the Archive of Yugoslavia, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Zečević. Namely, by the decision of the Director of the Yugoslavia Archive, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Zečević, probably by order from the then government, was decided to destroy, or recycled, the old paper files of communists from 1945 to 1978, which were kept in the archives of the CK SKJ. The archives were taken to recycling by trucks from a building in Marks Square and Engels. In total, nearly a kilometer of construction was excavated, more precisely about 828 long meters of documents or even 6,372 files. Archivists had to follow the orders of Prof. Dr. Miodrag Zečević. Today, because of such destruction of party documents, historians have been well prevented in a scientific way from revealing biographies of party personalities, class, social and national structures of party staff, psychological dilemmas in party staff, self-criticalness and remorse of individuals for sins committed against the party, which from today on would be banal. The rapid decisions of the state summit, which often have a political, ideological objective, deprive the public, especially scientific, of the possibility of reaching the key information needed for the work of individuals in the fields of science, education and culture. It should also be mentioned the recent sensational discovery of the closed capital documents in the Serbian Archives, which have been unidentified in the archive depot for decades. This is how the case was presented to the public by the Serbian Archives. As I have already pointed out, the long-hidden truth about war and wartime political destruction of archival funds and the poor state of archival funds in certain archives has been hidden. Unfortunately, the archives are, I repeat, always subject to political will, either totalitarian or so-called. democratic political regimes. It is precisely a surplus of state totalitarianism, and the lack of true democracy is fatal to the availability and free access to archive documentation. In today's, to God's democratic, Serbia has not yet felt democratic, rather legal, relationship to archival documentation, which is often dependent on the will of powerful individuals, hidden from the eye of historians and researchers. There is still a catastrophic staff policy. Ideologically and politically similar personnel continue to be placed in cultural institutions, as they once did in Broz's time. There is no point of expertise, and even today, there is a government of freedom, related to access to information of public importance. Still, there are positive shifts, which depend on reasonable individuals. On this occasion, I would like to commend the work of the Military Archives and its new director, Milosevic, which has significantly improved the availability of archival documentation to researchers. I must point out that once this military facility was avoided by researchers, precisely because of the dispute over procedural issues, for political and ideological constraints, for banning the use of funds due to the sanctity of archives and others, and it was always in the background of politics or ideology. I must also point out a positive example of the Yugoslav Archives, which is already traditionally open to researchers. Deposit services, information, libraries and reading rooms do their job well thanks to well- done informational resources from the department for the construction and processing of the archive building. The directorial shift in the archives of the city of Belgrade, by going to Dr. Branko Prpe and coming to the principal post of Mr. Dragan Gačić, former assistant director of the Yugoslav Archives, provides more free access to archive documentation, i.e. information of important public and scientific importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40669	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, when it comes to information of public importance, I will look back at only one thing, which is to reject some apriors, to reject something as if it weren't information of public importance, to reject something contained in one part, in one book of four volumes and something full of information of public importance, it's really not good. You guess, it's about Dr Vojislav Seselj's book "Police File", in four volumes. Not only should we not reject such a thing as something that is not information of public importance, on the contrary, it should be subject to a broad, comprehensive analysis, one analysis by the current service, so BIA, as well as other state bodies, even representatives of the Serbian government, the Trustees, as well as other state authorities and individuals. So much for that. In this address, I would like to say more about the law amending the Law on Features. It has not been a long time since the Law on Features was passed in this congregation, and here we are today ahead of the amendments and additions of that law. A short time has passed, indeed. Not only has it been a short time, but this Law of Features that we have brought to this congregation has practically not even come to life, it has not even begun to apply. So, the old practice continues this time. Every bill that comes here in front of MPs in the National Assembly is shown to be the best thing, as something that's almost perfect, something we've never had before, the most important thing. By reading and listening to the explanations of these often “perfect” legislative proposals, some neutral observers who would read or listen could only conclude – God, mildly to this legislative home, mildly to these MPs, the treasure of this country that has such regulated legal projects, which has such legislation. Indeed, they could conclude -- it will be an ideal state when the EU court opens up to it. Is that all right? Unfortunately, practice unwittingly disproves all of this. The plagiarism of legal proposals with incorrect and very often Serbian inappropriate translations is often driven by this home. Our remarks in this regard often do not reach anywhere near the proposings of these legal projects. The desire to fix something, complement, improve, simply improve the text in the common interest of all, especially Serbian citizens, remains a very often dead letter on paper in the light of hundreds of written and unaccepted amendments. Then, after a while, here we are, witnessing today, after only six months, as a coward's egg, the changes and additions that very often, just like an egg, look like those amendments that we've asked for to change the current proposed text. For irony to be greater, and for reasons for making changes and additions are almost the same or similar to those of our amendments. In the case of these laws, it is firstly a Serbian tradition, as explained in the reason for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, which now calls for a clear need to restore the Order of the Karadjordjev star, which, of course, is not to be disputed in any case; then, the memory of the first distinction of the Southern Slovenians, the Medal of Courage established by Petar II Petrović Negos, which was later established in the Kingdom of Serbia as the Medal of Courage “Milos Obilic” in order to get a second name in the SRJ – the Great Medal of Obilić or, as you well quote foreign sources, Milosh Obilich Medal for Bravery. He finally got a Kosovo hero, a Kosovo hero, a great-grandfather named one medal, one medal, but "for lockery". When we passed the basic law on distinctions, we also pointed to the Serbian tradition, and to the continuity in taking honours and many other things, for which you had no hearing at the time. Now it's as if you've transferred yourself, as if someone's come out of some big, deep or heavy amnesia and remembered something that needs to be brought in, at the same time in our everyday life, two groups: one small group, ossion, rich, who bought more than half of Serbia, and who, by the way, will probably share these medals between themselves and the other, a much larger group of disfigured, hungry, out of work, whose way of life and the art of survival in these conditions really deserves to bear all these medals and all the medals that you've predicted in this law. So, I say, after one amnesia like this, these first say to this small group that put these medals on their chests, probably to a much greater extent, which has hung a lot of medals that can be treated as merits against the people – it's fortunate that we weren't there while you were getting rich while you were robbing this people and while you were hanging those medals, it's fortunate that we didn't see it. And they weren't there to see it. I'll compare it to a story that says something like that. You know, when the great chef Ivan Meštrović once showed his works in a gallery, in a museum, he touched one of his works with his hand, to which the bereaved guard ran and said – sir, you must not do it, you must not touch it with your hand. This one was well-intentioned – well, my lord, that you know only how many times I've done it so far. This one tells him, if you knew I was there, you wouldn't be able to do it. So is this story about you. So, a little joke's not on the table, but I think there's a big parallel between what I've told you and the medals. In the end, allow me a little personal observation. It's good to have a law of distinctions. It is good to remember the bright Serbian tradition and to bring into the decoration system some who existed long ago. That's really good, that must be respected. In any case, neither now nor when the basic Law on Features was passed, we were not against it. However, a cruel daily routine teaches us something else. Often those who do not deserve them are those who could not deserve them in any way. That's what needs to be taken care of. Those who deserve them often don't need these medals, and these first ones, who don't deserve these medals, but, on the contrary, they have enormous merits against the people, would really be much better suited to the second order, which in this law is not, which could have been established, and in fact treats something else. Those who have done much against this people would truly fit the Order with the shape of bars with golden rays of sunshine. For them, it's the best kind of medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40671	Mr Milan Avramovic. You've got twenty-four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40672	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, listening to representatives of the ruling majority on a bill that has only two members, in which one says that the existing one is not valid because of the date of its publication, and the other specifies the authority of the Commissioner continues to determine his ability to work to make his work as successful as possible... What is generally known is that, first of all, this law does not solve the basic problems that the trustee has, does not solve the basic problems that citizens have. The trustee doesn't have the budget he needs. The trustee doesn't have the room he needs. The trustee doesn't have certain personnel and the number of people he needs. The trustee also has an obligation under the Personal Data Protection Act. The Commissioner is not quite as presented as the ruling majority's MPs. The question arises, if he had been enabled to do so, would it then be correct work, and then criticise the Commissioner? So, to criticise the work of the Trustees, and the state, which calls for democracy, did not provide all the conditions for work, is immaterial. What is good, Mr. Mikovic, under this law we have reached the minutes of the budgetary inspection of the Republic Ministry of Finance, which shows that you as the president of the Pančevo municipality have "charged" salaries to your employees, made some false stimuli and received some punishment for it. That's the punishment you've been complaining about. She didn't become just because the deadline was up. It's a good thing this law exists, but this law doesn't define many things that should have been arranged. In the light of the law itself, you say in preamble or attitude 3 that the Government, in case of need, provides for the execution of the trustee's solution and can be closer to determining the way of the solution. I ask you from the ruling majority - what if the trustee's solution is contrary to the government's interest? How will the government provide something that harms her? There's a lot of that information. I also have to repeat that we should always leave our house and go out to the yard. Did we ask any questions in the congregation? We did, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Did we get the answers? We didn't. Did we ask what this Big Brother thing means in the balcony room, on the gelander? No one gave an answer. She's gone now. Have we asked which companies are behind the privatisation of "News" and Luke Belgrade? Did we ask how much Luka Belgrade had money in her account when it was sold? Did we ask what happened to SK's assets? We didn't get an answer. How do you expect local self - administrations, congregations, and congregations of cities to answer parliamentary questions when this is not done in the congregation? You know that this law has allowed some data to be obtained, selected, if these data are estimated to be less harmful or not harmful at all to the public interest of the state or government. Well, if one municipality doesn't give an answer, the council is obliged, under this law, to write to the municipality a question to which it seeks an answer. He doesn't get that answer, and then he writes to the trustee. The trustee urinates and then the municipality gives an answer to a question that hasn't even been asked. That's how you buy time, and there's no answer. There's no sanctions. An important answer to the question that has been asked, which can solve many problems, is not available. Then it is concluded that you have not passed a two-member law in the interest of solving the problem. If you wanted to pass a complete and concrete law that would help the Trustee, you would have adopted a bill by the representatives of the citizens who referred it to the assembly procedure. The law is also on the Assembly site. There are as many as 25 or 26 amendments to the existing law. Why didn't you put it in the process if you think the trustee will change and supplement the existing law to allow better functionality? The right to free access to information, we can all agree, is a powerful means, especially by controlling the work of the state authorities, for example, in the pre-election course either between two cycles or during a term of office. It is good that under this law you can do a work check, and based on this work check you can reduce corruption, abuse of position, or all that someone planned to abuse without hiding it. However, it should be noted that citizens also have an unfavourable position. They should not be obliged to prove the reason why they need the information. Now you have a pattern to fill in to get some information. If the pattern is wrongly filled, you don't get the information. Then we have a bunch of cases at the Information Commissioner, which can't come physically, with a low capacity of people, with poor conditions, to handle all the requirements and to meet everyone, although we have to agree, there's this will. On the one hand, we have the Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Service Officers, which states that the provisions under which the authorities of the State Administration, Article 11, i.e. civil servants, Article 8, are required to provide information on their work in accordance with the provisions of the law governing freedom of access to information of public importance... Then these two laws are not respected either, when we ask the question of what about Luka Belgrade, what about "News" etc. In this proposal for the law, we have received an explanation saying: “Because the protection of that law is information of public importance which the Government, within its jurisdiction, has no authority to ensure the execution of a solution by the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data, it is necessary to designate a body that, within its powers, can ensure the enforcement of these solutions and determine the procedure for the implementation of enforcement. “ I ask you, if the Government and the Ministry are law enforcement, why did they not bring this solution into the law? Why do they give us the possibility that something will just be done and that we will now be the ones who, by parliamentary debate, will correct your mistakes for something yet to be determined? Or, that -- the respect of future laws, by which Mr. Knezevic is recognizable. So there is much illogical in this bill. I shall give an example, the Commissioner for Public Information has called on the Government and Parliament to provide the conditions for the application of the Personal Data Protection Act as soon as possible. He stressed that his service does not have enough space and people to carry out all the tasks it is responsible for, so it will be questioned and the rights of citizens and the enforcement of some international obligations of the country. We tried, based on his statement, to see why he doesn't have the opportunity to do the job properly, in accordance with the law. So, at a time when a special type of savings and reduction of the state apparatus is recommended to all bells for minor expenditures, our administration numbers 25 ministries, plus the Prime Minister's cabinets and four vice-prime ministers. More than 15 addresses of state officials spread across Belgrade, and their exact number, as well as the amount of space they use, is not available to the public. We tried to get all that information, but it didn't exactly work out for us, so it ended up waiting and moving from one service to another. What we obtained from the data is from the Serbian government staff management service, which reported only from May 2008 -- that the state administration of Serbia employed (then) 27,891 employees. This figure did not include employees of the Security and Information Agency, as well as employees of the Ministry of the Interior. The truth is, however, that every new government brings new people to cabinets. We had the opportunity to see this in the framework of the Regionalisation Act, the Development Act, etc. But employees who work and who don't have a feeling that the clerk's apparatus will shrink by being the one who's going to get fired... Something in this country had to be reduced: what the Government is responding to has been reduced, which is the personnel of information or the rights of citizens who provide information on the basis of their human condition, people, and what cannot possibly find enough space in this government, and which is even urgently needed, such as the State Auditing Institution or the Information Trustee. So, in order not to list now the assets of the "Serbian" Palace, the so-called SIV, the square and all that is used for the numbered ministries, we can conclude that some ministries do not have working conditions, but if you convince us that it is important for you to have this law complete, that this law be applied by enabling the Commissioner to do the job properly, then you should have gone into full consideration of the existing laws. We then invested a large number of amendments, so as not to repeat, as well as fellow MPs from other MPs, who have been rejected, and we will be in a position to put this law back in the assembly procedure after some period. I find it very funny and sad, I must admit, that some who care about the budget of this assembly have the right to call on time and the money that the state spends without starting on their own example. from themselves, as they happened in the congregation, whose mandate they took, whose money they spent. However, in order not to be a debate in the second instance, the fact is that we are wasting time on a law that will not change much, and that we are not dealing with more serious things in the state of Serbia at all. You will say – make a suggestion that is more serious. We gave it away, and you refused. You will say that we have taken more serious problems to solve, and you will also accuse the opposition, the 1990s or the global economic crisis, and then the problems will remain. Address problems that will help Serbian citizens to exercise some other rights. If a Serbian citizen knows that he has received the salary so much and so much, he does not care what the director's salary is if he is satisfied with his status. Then this law doesn't have a function. So don't make a problem without a problem, but start solving specific problems in the existing law. Here, I'll give you just some. So in the existing law, you could have provided for Article 25 that the Trustee could, upon application under official duty, make a decision determining that the Authority of the Authority, and then excludes the authority of the authorities from Article 22, failed to fulfil its obligations. Then the question arises, as far as this member is concerned, is the definition of the difference between what a decision is and what a decision by the authorities is something that could be initiated before the administrative procedure so that the government can react. Or, Article 27, in which decisions and solutions are also defined in the right way, so that the administrative dispute can have full weight, because there are considerable differences on the legal ground between decisions and solutions. In Article 18 of the existing law, the Authority has a certain technical possibility to issue a copy, audio or video form to a applicant, and it is said that the Authority will fulfil this depending on whether it has technical opportunities. We live in the 21st century. The technical possibilities in the Government that have such a massive administration cannot be an excuse not to deliver any document, video or audio record, but, unfortunately, some requests have been rejected under that excuse, and even SRS requests for data that may be of interest to the workings of the parliamentary group. I will also refer to Article 16 which says that the Authority is unable to provide reasonable reasons, so now it says which ones, informs the information see if it can put in touch with the document it asked for or not. When you are looking for a document, the Authority has no obligation to inform you whether the document will give you or not, whether the answer is positive or negative with respect to the applicant. There are a lot of problems in this law that need to be solved. You plan to solve the problem through one member. That's not how this law's problem is solved. This law should exist, should be arranged so that the Trustee is indeed an independent institution, not that the government determines a segment or way of implementing an administrative solution. I ask you one more question - if it is contrary to a solution with the government, how will the government implement it? At your own expense? Well, who else is going to do it in the government? We haven't had the opportunity to trust this government on many issues so far, so I don't now list all these issues, starting with free shares, NIS sales, Telekom and all, we haven't gotten the impression that we can trust the government to do this until the end. So when these items are specified and you bring before the MPs a bill that will be so simple, simple and applicable, then we can talk more seriously about this topic. When you provide conditions for the work of the Trustee, when all this goes away, and for that you have opportunities, then we will criticise the Trustee whether he was doing well or not. This is how we're supposed to evaluate the work of someone we didn't let work. So how do we get grades? It's just a shower. What's good is that the records of budget inspections can be seen, that the records of budget inspections say what abuse was made when the installation of the electronic system in the Assembly, what abuse was made when the burning assembly was taken care of, how much money was spent, how much money from the budget of local self-government went to non-purpose funds, how these money was allocated to who. We have a situation where the city councils adopt statutes and programs governing local self-government as local communities, where a local self-government, thanks to your vision of democracy, has the status of the local community, instead of the municipality, and can't even change the price of business space without the city's consent, can't legalize, can't issue a copy of the birth certificate because it's all taken over the city. What's the question? We can't get that answer through this law. Through this law we cannot get many other answers – how much was spent on GSP Belgrade, how much was spent on privatising certain companies, what these companies had from their assets and how they function today. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen of the ruling majority. When you give answers to the Commissioner first and then to the MPs of the people, then we will consider this bill to be far more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40673	Replica Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40674	Since I was called in the discussion of the name, with the claim that the budget of the municipality of Pancheva was audited and that there was allegedly a punishment given to local self-government, I claim from this place that the budget audit was carried out, but no punishment has ever been imposed on local self-government. The fact is that I served as president of Panchevo Municipality for four years, from 2004 to 2008. At the same time, much has been done to improve the lives of the citizens of Pančev, much has been done to improve the infrastructure, to maintain schools, to build kindergartens (there is no longer a waiting list for kindergartens in Pančev); much has been done on roads, streets, squares, spring crossings, on the construction of sewers in many parts of the city and villages, waterways. The city's toplification of fourm euros was carried out, a sanitary dump was completed, ten buses were bought; much was done on the city's greening, the cemetery was expanded, done on the markets a lot. Mostly, during the term of office, for four years, according to the official record of the National Employment Service, with 19,000 unemployed, we came down to 12,000 unemployed at the time. At the same time, the number of employees in local self-government was, as you know by current records, less than the maximum number of employees, which is forecasting new regulations. The salaries of workers in local self-government, who are modest, have always been declared by the Pancheva Municipality Assembly and, on average, from year to year, reduced the participation of salaries in the city's total budget. At the same time, a lot has been done in local self-government on social protection projects; four sports halls have been completed and much, much, in a way to take care of the citizens of Panchev. Anyway, I'm not gonna take the opportunity to speak for three minutes, I think it's said enough. I don't think it's right to get untrue out of this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40675	Thank you for bringing out the exact information. There is no basis for replication, you are not offended, you are not misunderstood, you are not mentioned. No, you used your last call. We could theoretically get word from Mr. Sarovic and Mrs. Ragus, who are not in the O.R. So they could use it, and you know the Rules of Procedure, don't. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint principled search, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40676	Dear President, I would only really like to comment on behalf of the MEP Group on some of the remarks and why I consider these objections to be actually more of an attempt to make some kind of political position about this law than to really criticise the intention, but also the solutions to this law. The truth is, it has been repeated many times that some amendments proposed to the information protection law, i.e. the availability of information of public importance, were then not respected. I want to remind you that this law has been passed by another government. So this government has supported the institution of the Commissioner for Information in many ways, among other things, by providing space for work. The government itself filed 140 misappropriations, she directly showed that she was ready to assist in the work of the Information Commissioner. Among other things, and by the fact that he has proposed a law to which the Commissioner for Information has been given in the jurisdiction that he can carry out his decisions. So it is also important to say – when a law on the availability of information of public importance of criticism was passed it was unnecessary, that it was the creation of another unnecessary institution, that it was just the execution of some external tasks, etc. Now these criticisms have completely changed direction, so now it's critical that we don't work enough, that we haven't done as much as necessary. It just shows the political inconsistencies of those who, at all costs, are looking for ways to be against everything. In that sense, it is difficult to understand the political direction of those who say the Commissioner was elected as a political figure at a time when he was elected and re-elected, and now it is claimed that he is a man who deserves all praise. I just want to say that this is why I believe that for this law, that is, the amendments and additions that we are discussing today and that we will adopt in a few days, also one day those who are against this law today will argue that it is good that these amendments have been made, because it is thus possible for citizens to exercise their right to have information of public importance available. It is also mentioned here that we are in the 21st century and that some things can't justify us. Unfortunately, we are in the 21st century, but many opinions are still in the 19th century. Practically, from the point of view of some economic and technological achievements, unfortunately, it is not Serbia (or at least not the whole) still in the 21st century. This is exactly what we advocate for Serbia's modernisation and for Serbia's European path gives incentives to continue on that path, because it is a guarantee that when we say that we are in the 21st century, that means the economic level of development, but it also implies a technological level of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40677	Thank you. I don't think there's really... According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40678	So, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Article 95th position 1 says the president of the National Assembly gives the People's MPs a word in accordance with the order established by their parliamentary group and until the end of the total time of the debate set out for the parliamentary group. So, we have time for a parliamentary group, it's not over. I believe I have absolutely the right to use the time of the parliamentary group when this topic is on the agenda, because it has always been so in practice. This time is scheduled for this topic and for the Law of Features. I wasn't talking about the next law. I was talking about this. I think you've denied me my right, you've hurt my Rules of Procedure. To answer Mr. Mikovic to what he reflected on the concept of my presentation and to answer now to Mrs. Nadi Kolundjia what she reflected on the concept of my presentation – therefore, essentially, we, as an SRS Group, supported the rule on the organisation of the service when it was on the Assembly's agenda. It's absolutely untasteful for us to respect that we weren't up for it. On the other hand, there's documentation, which we didn't write, but was delivered by the Ministry. If the Ministry has fooled the public, then I will apologize to Mr. Mikovic on behalf of the Ministry, but that is the information we received from them. I'm ready to let him in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40679	I've already explained there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, do you want parliament to declare itself in the day of the vote? Yeah. All right. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE State REVISION (principles) You have received a bill submitted by MPs Milan Vučković, Branislav Jovanovic, Zoran Kasalović, Branka Ljiljak, Balint Pastor, Žarko Pica and Mihailo Purić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You've received the government's opinion on the bill. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs, which means that the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group of MPs – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Emissary Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to three minutes. I ask the MPs, if they have not already done so, to file a statement with the order of the People's MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Zoran Kasalovic of the SPS-JS Group, MP Vlajko Senic of the G 17 Plus Parliament Group, MP Dragan Stevanovic of the SRS Group and MP Mihailo Puric of the MEP for European Serbia. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Do any of the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs of the People’s Republic of Rade and Petar Jojic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Excuse me, Mr. Michael Puric, have you already signed up in advance? Yeah. () All right, let's just see if any of the gentlemen who singled out an opinion wants a word first. No, I don't. ) Among the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, the word first wants Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40681	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am one of the motions of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the State Auditing Institution, and I am very glad that this bill has arrived on the agenda, because only once in this session has come to pass that the bill of law which is not proposed by the Government has arrived on the agenda. This is the second such opportunity, when we talk about the bill's proposals; there was another declaration that came to the agenda, and whose proposal was not the Government. I think we should use these options more often. There are no parliaments in the region in which only a few times the MPs were able to reach their draft laws on the agenda of parliament and I expect this practice to continue in the future in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the State Audit Institute, we are aware of the importance of independent regulatory bodies for the development of democracy in the Republic of Serbia. Now I am not only talking about the State Auditing Institution but also about the trustees, the Citizens' Protector and other independent regulatory bodies, or bodies that exist and function in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the functioning and work of the State Auditing Institution, then we must say that in previous years, since the DRI has been functioning under the Constitution and the law, conditions have not been created in the Republic of Serbia for the exercise of those powers that fall within the authority of this body. Here I think, first of all, of the difficulties in the work of this institution and the insufficient number of auditors and insufficiently good working conditions of the DRI. The comments were also given by a group of states to fight corruption in the Council of Europe, which said the operation of the DRI in full capacity is one of their recommendations. Also, a report by the European Commission on Serbia's 2008 and 2009 progress has made recommendations. The 2008 report said that due to lack of capacity, the State Audit Institute has not yet fully operational, and the 2009 progress report for Serbia noted that the DRI has begun its first audit, but that the lack of human resources and audit capacities has not yet provided adequate public expenditure control and that this very significant body is not yet fully operational, it is necessary to strengthen human resources. Here we come to a problem that this draft law on amendments and additions wants to give an answer, which is so far the inability to employ quality audit staff. I would like to remind all of you that four authorised state auditors were accepted after the public competition in October 2008 and only one state auditor was accepted after the July 2009 competition. The reason for this is, of course, insufficiently high wages, especially when we know what responsibility auditors and DRIs are wearing as an organ, as an institution. Under the still valid law, the state auditor's salary with the authority of the state auditor is about 63,000 dinars, and the state auditor's salary with the call of the state auditor is about 50,000 dinars. Of course, these salaries are not adequate and we cannot expect people with adequate expertise to perform these functions to get hired in the DRI when in the private sector for perhaps less responsible work, for less responsible jobs they get a salary that may be twice as high as the current salary of auditors in the DRI. These changes and additions provide that the basic salary of the Council president of the institution will be at the level of the basic salary of the authorised state auditor, increased by 30%. There are amendments to the opposition and parties that make up the ruling majority to make it 40% or 50% instead of 30%. Of course, we can and should talk about it. As for us from the SVM, we are prepared to support different proposals if a deal is made regarding the salary of President of the DRI Council. It is a very important fact that there are no amendments of the type "to be deleted" among the amendments, which means that all parliamentary parties agree that wages should be increased in the DRI, and all parliamentary parties have reached agreement on the importance of the State Auditing Institution. Also, these changes and additions provide that the Vice-President and members of the Council are entitled to a 90% basic salary from the basic salary of the chairman of the DRI Council. It should be said that the salaries were so low in the DRI so far because they were related to the salary of the president and vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly and that they could not, therefore, be changed until the president and vice-president of parliament's salary changed. We know our salaries haven't been increased in over five years. That's not enough reason not to raise wages in the DRI. The proposed changes create opportunities for the DRI staff to be strengthened, so that it can fully respond to the Constitution and the law with certain obligations. The state audit institution currently has five state auditors and two top state auditors and for now they are the ones who can audit in 2010. That number is absolutely insufficient. The proposed solutions provide that the number of state auditors is to be determined by the act of the institution, that the public auditor is to be established after the public competition has been implemented and that the decision to appoint a state auditor is to be made by the president of the DRI. The amendments to the law would create opportunities for the reception of audit staff, and in 2009 it was planned to employ three other top auditors and 27 state auditors in the institution. For this, 25,000,000 dinars will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which should be sufficient. We believe that by adopting these amendments and supplementing the State Auditing Institution will be able to strengthen its personnel, to be independent and independent in its work, and therefore we will support these changes and additions. When the DRI strengthens, we expect it to carry out a budget audit of those beneficiaries of the state budget whose business was unable to control. First of all, I am referring to the control of whether the AP Vojvodina is indeed, in accordance with Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gets 7% of the republic's budget. We know that's not the case, but it should be said by an institution that has the authority to take care of it. So far, she has not been able because of the lack of human and other conditions, but will be able to after adopting these changes and additions. So we will vote in favour of the motion for these amendments and I expect the National Assembly to vote largely in favour of this amendment of the law in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40682	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40683	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the control of the cash flows of the budget must be regular, as this is the only way and way to establish full responsibility for the legal and deliberate spending of every dinar of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS and the JS express satisfaction and support because the process is open and this is the first government that has clearly expressed its readiness to make the public finances of the Republic of Serbia modern, transparent, which among other things is one of the preconditions for full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU. I do not want the next report on the final account of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other users, direct and indirect, of the budget to be incomplete, i.e. the mole, as well as the one that voted not to express an opinion. On the contrary, we want it to be complete, to cover the whole, because the public of the Republic of Serbia rightly expects it. State audit institutions in many countries have been organised in various institutional terms and there are dozens of years; during this period they have changed both organisationally and by the scope of the powers. This Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Auditing Institution is precisely on the trail and it is primarily an expression of support from the Members of the Committee on Finance, who at one point expressed unanimous support for the work of the State Auditing Institution, in order to ultimately result in this concrete draft law amending and supplementing the DRI Act resulting in a proposal for the work of the Members of the Committee on Finance. He, in my opinion, primarily represents the introduction of a permanent debate in the direction of organisational and humane strengthening of the DRI in the future. Accordingly, as things took place in state audit institutions in many EU countries, changes have taken place and we have had other proposals on this plan at the moment. Among other things, it seemed that it might be acceptable for DRI members to be elected for a period longer than the mandate of MPs and government, which would further enhance independence in the work of the DRI, which also represents some experience in the EU. However, based on the practice so far, the evaluation of the Finance Committee and most MPs has been that it is a far-reaching goal at the moment to speed up the material and working status of DRI employees, and that the practice is the one that will show the right measure of some future solutions, perhaps this one. That's what I'm saying because in the debate, that argument has often moved, about further strengthening independence in the work of the DRI. At this point, I would like to remind myself that representatives and the president of the DRI himself have repeatedly reiterated that in their work on the report on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, full independence of state auditors and in these conditions has been ensured, which only says that this factor is not dominant and prevailing, one that can provide complete independence, but that it can also be ensured in these conditions, if it works in quality. Why was this first report on the 2008 final budget audit of the Republic of Serbia incomplete, i.e. as a result of the inability to express an opinion on the state of the budget, i.e. the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2008? About 25.27% of cash flows in control were carried out, a revision of the very budget of the Republic of Serbia was carried out. The existing restrictions are set out in the report itself, and they consisted of a lack of the number of auditors that were to exercise control, i.e. the audit of the final account. The audit can work in a fit that's top-of-the-line, with specific skills. The practice showed, and also the results of several public competitions for the selection of auditors, that there was insufficient earnings, i.e. incompletely defined labour status of state auditors was the first restriction in order to fully receive the required number of state auditors. Accordingly, the draft law amending and supplementing the DRI Act goes towards that objective to define more precisely the working status and to increase the profits of state auditors, authorised state auditors, whose earnings are parameters for other earnings, and thus to further strengthen DRI through the reception of new state auditors. We have seen that this law stipulates that state auditors and authorised state auditors of the income of civil servants in the first and second order of charge, with coefficients 8 and 9, which at this time would be about 128,000 for the state auditor, and for the authorised state auditor about 144,000 dinars, which according to the commercial audit houses on the market of the Republic of Serbia, says that at this point that the profits are becoming competitive and that with this kind of profit the DRI can fill its ranks and provide the necessary quality personnel. By further detailing the working status of state auditors, through the possibility of an institutional add-on of 30% to the complexity of jobs in certain moments, the quality for the reception of new workers is strengthened. We really appreciate that this way the DRI will start working at full capacity. We want her, apart from the audit report she's been doing, to be fully involved in solving and removing these restrictions that existed on this first report. I think it is necessary for the DRI to actively engage in the creation of an internal control and internal audit system, because it is a system that is a prerequisite for public finances to be put in order and to prevent many of the mistakes that have already been established in this first report, so that they do not repeat themselves in the future. I will remind you that internal control is one system of procedures and responsibilities for all individuals involved in financial flows. The verification of the application of the law, rules and regulations also ensures the reliability of the information. Of course, good internal control, the internal control system, would already have a preventive effect and that this most frequent finding of irregularities, i.e. documentation, the existence of documentation based on which it could not be determined in a reliable manner that the cost was incurred for the purpose of business and business co-operation, would certainly be excluded. That would be the first effect. On the other hand, if there were indeed an internal audit that would carry out a verification of the application of laws, systems and internal control procedures, which would also have the obligation to establish co-operation with external audits, it would additionally be given a new quality that the DRI would already be able to do the job in a new qualitative form because of some subsequent audit of the budget of direct and indirect users. I want to say here at a plenary session, and I also used the opportunity at the Committee on Finance sessions, that the DRI should be involved in this process, but that it strives to establish a fundamental system of internal control and internal audit, which could respond to all these requirements, rather than going into the process of establishing only the formal existence of internal control and internal audit, where it would not be an essential result and would not in that sense have a significant effect. I think that in these conditions, at the time when the full capacity of the work of the State Auditing Institution is achieved, it will be able to devote itself to its other obligations under the DRI Act, and above all those provided for in Article 5, which says that the DRI can provide advice to public funds users, it can provide professional assistance, and above all it would be necessary to participate and make observations on drafts, proposals for legal texts in the field of public finances and thus contribute further to the regulation of public finances. Through such work we will come safely to the moment when the State Audit Institute, apart from what it values in this report, will appreciate the purpose of the availability of public funds, both in whole and in part. Above all, MPs of the SPS and the JS hope that in some subsequent revision, the DRI will have a revision programme foreseen by Article 35, which says that it is mandatory each year to cover the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the organisation of compulsory social security, the corresponding number of units of local self-government, the business of the NBS relating to the use of public funds and a number of public enterprises and companies. This was not the case this time because of the restrictions mentioned in this report, which I mentioned in part. Given that this proposal amends and complements the Law on the State Auditing Institution is now heading towards the establishment of full capacity of the DRI, MPs of the SPS and JS will in principle support this bill. We do not have amendments to this amendment law and amendments to the DRI Act, but by estimating the debate that will be in particular, we are prepared to consider any amendments that will go in favour of making this proposal faster and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40684	I thank Ambassador Kasalovic. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40685	Thank you. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Auditing Institution, according to the SNS and its position, raised a much larger issue than just increasing wages and creating conditions for working in this institution. It is the State Audit Authority specific to the fact that in one body, the institution, if you will, the Council and the President of that institution, is united and legislative, and the Executive and Judicial Authority, and it is regulatory in a certain way. How? If, on behalf of the General State System, the DRI, on behalf of Parliament, actually exercises control of the work of the state authorities and of all those working with state authorities and if, in that control, it is necessary to produce instructions on how to avoid the irregularities already detected, it is clear that some new rules should be drawn up from their work, in the laws governing spending, control and cash flows. So in DRI, we have an embryo, one root of the law that needs to be adopted in this home. What is seen as an irregularity in the operation of the DRI should be sanctioned in a procedure which, unlike other countries, does not exist in the DRI Court of Auditors, but in a regular procedure, proceedings before the judicial authorities should have sufficiently well-founded applications of any kind so that what is perceived as irregularities could be carried out in some form of solution, judgment or certain penalties for illegal spending of money. It is indeed obvious that the responsibility of the State Auditing Institution is extremely large, that there is also a need for expertise in work and that very specific knowledge is needed. When I say that you need expertise, it's meant to be like when you have a good internal auditor, he mentioned a colleague for a little while, and it can't be someone who left college yesterday. It has to be someone who knows that business changes happen in a company or state body, as they are recorded, how small holes in the law can be converted into spaces for malfeasance, abuse and illegal spending. Then you should be able to detect and prevent such obvious and less obvious and hidden abuses. From these specificities and responsibilities that are at the State Auditing Institution, I am trying to explain the need for them to have salaries in the DRI that stimulate them to do this job in the highest quality way. But if they do so on behalf of Parliament, I will say one heresy – where do I get to vote as an MP for the salary of the state auditor, President of the DRI Council or the Supreme Auditor, which is higher than the salary of the President of Parliament? I have no right to do that. For me, the President of Parliament, as a legislative authority, is someone everyone else should treat. For me, it is not a question here whether Professor Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is in this place or whether he is in DRI Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic or whether he is the president of the state, Mr. Boris Tadic. That's not a question of personality at all right now. This is a matter of respect for the functions of representative bodies, control authorities and respect for the legislative, executive, judicial and this regulatory and control functions of the DRI. To tell you the truth, it's really hard for me to talk about making a system on this piece of state called DRI, as much as I thought it was significant, but the public has to know that we're changing the DRI Act because the president of the institution and the Supreme Auditors is not responsible for treating MPs and those who are elected in the election process, to which they can spit, swear, who should be on the pillar of shame, on the wall of pay, to deal with the affairs of entertainers, estrades, etc. Each of those who are named and elected in the regular election procedures has proof within their party, proof to the public, to the citizens of Serbia. By doing so, they must respond to what they promise in campaigns, in election programmes, and act this way daily, preparing themselves seriously and working on laws, namely their pre-election and electoral programmes. Is it now that whoever makes the laws can put himself in a subordinate role and that he sincerely advocates what it means – you will control me, I will pay you well; you have recalculated yourself at the time when your salaries are set, so you wanted to be like those who have a hard time choosing, and you will easily spit, but now you are not fit for their salary because it has not changed for five years, but it is responsible for you to treat the salaries of public servants, so now parliament, as my colleague Rade Obradović said in our conversation, quote him, should pay the secretary in one company, so, a public official, takes as a rapper to determine the salary of the director who brings the jobs? Does that seem normal to anyone? We're not talking about DRI, we're talking about the principle of establishing hierarchy in one country. If money is the measure of value, in terms of – we measure whether we are developed, how much is our GDP, the wealth of a country is determined accordingly... Mr Djelic says – who is smart, he must prove his mind with wealth. However, he proved it in Serbia, not France. But if it is encouraging that your work is done in the best possible way, it cannot only apply to the DRI and cannot advise the President of Parliament to have a higher salary than the President of Parliament; it cannot have the secretary-general's salary higher than the secretary-general and cannot have the secretary of the committee in the Assembly to pay more than the MPs, because it is a system of value that we send a message of respect for those we choose and those of whom we expect to work in our interest. I am not prepared to participate in a general system of humiliation of the parliamentary system by admitting today that the salaries of those who are in this Parliament, from the first among equal to the MPs, are not what needs to be seen. I am truly expressing my dissatisfaction with the fact that today it is better to be the one behind the curtain, in the second rank or third order, of any secretary or even chief in the government, the secretary in parliament, and not to be exposed to any responsibility, not to the public, to the extent that all those I stand for (not for any name individually, but for the institutions in this country). On this case, I want us to begin to restore our reputation to institutions that are also credited to those who represent them to a good extent. However, not as MPs of the ruling position who were afraid of the objections that they were not for control, but also because there should be control of each dinar, I agree that we start this restoration of the system right from the State Auditing Institution. But not giving the right to one man, President of the Council, to decide who will be stimulated by an institutional add-on of 30%, that this, the only one, determines itself, will be criteria for assessing extremely difficult work, specific knowledge, etc. As I say, the budget cannot be made from the roof and from the demands of those who spend the budget, but from the economy that creates it. I also argue that in this law, we can only agree that, in accordance with the business plan for a certain year and in line with the amount of work that the State Auditing Institution is planning to do, we can also discuss the volume of funds allocated to these institutional supplements, not that one man is wondering because then there is no objectivity that the entire Council has. It was even regulated by law to ask the Council about these things, to bring an annual plan, a work plan, but also the financial plan of this institution. So, in some, I'd say a false, a relationship where we want to be controlled, we can't exaggerate by courting an institution whose subject of control we should be. In simple words, if you have a financial inspection, nothing is worth your kindness if your papers aren't neat and you haven't done the right thing, or by definition it should be. So, the defect that we have, that the Council of the State Auditing Institution is proposing political parties, and that they are independent, cannot be easily corrected, and it is not only our specificity that is the problem. Indeed, we cannot say that there is an independent man who will not have favors with someone, and to someone a little tighter or rougher relationship. However, this must not be limited to the diversity of the relationship between the President of the Council, not within the State Auditing Institution itself, but also to the authorities that are being controlled. As proposed by the law, it's not secure. That is why we, as the Serbian Progressive Party, have proposed to our amendments that where this one is intended to be asked, it may be his proposal, but it must be asked the entire Council, because four or five people know more than one and have a wider range of views. As I don't want anyone to act as an unfulfilled prison manager here in the parliament where we work every day, as a co-founder in some zoo (as rough as it seems, but sometimes it has such passions), I don't think the state auditor should behave as someone who hunts mistakes. His role should be objective, advisory. This law allows for those meetings of reconciliation, which seems to me, because of the lack of seriousness of the authorities, is not well understood and that is why the first report came upon a poor reception. I, not prone to hyperbolising and exaggeration, said that the state audit report must really be the same in this country, counting on the quality of the internal audit to improve. But, colleague Kasalovic, not as we have adopted an internal audit here for the Parliament itself as an organ, where the same man gives you a warrant, you file a report, you receive a salary from him, he signs your stimulation, and you will be so objective that you record his mistakes and warn him. No, that's not possible. If an internal audit in any company is arranged like that, or even a state authority, anywhere... One who has to say that some things are not done in accordance with the law must not fear that he will be welcomed on the first corner, at the first delay and be fired. In state authorities, creativity is not appreciated as a rule. The state authorities don't see exactly how well those who are in further offices than those who are closer to yours are doing. The people used to say about it, who is beside the fire, he is the best to warm himself; whoever eats a pear under the pear. It's just a different definition of what we're talking about. Looking at how well the bosses work, for example, officials in this assembly, as much as they do, to whom they write resolutions, how many responsibilities some young and hardworking people bear, as some say "I am not paid to think, let my boss do because he is paid for it" – that is what the heads of staff and chiefs must know and must inform their superiors. In the same way, the State Audit Institution must function. In this way state authorities must also function, not in principle of obedience, but in loyalty to their own state, laws on the basis of which we work, but also loyalty to those who represent the state in that moment between the two elections, regular, not at all important. Principleally, I will always advocate that whoever has an objective position, undefined by a personal position, without any courtship in the body in which he controls, today in this country should be rewarded for his courage because the initiative and respect of the law are not valued. But we can't deal with it and say, "We can't change anything here." We can change a lot if the DRI report doesn't end in the yellow press, any other press, in the talk shows, TV shows that measure ratings by how many people speak at the same time, so they don't hear each other, but rather, Madam President, what we're going to talk about on the state audit report, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that should enable us, here where it is, and not give jurisdiction to the Finance Committee that he doesn't have the opportunity to carry out because the Rules of Procedure don't allow them. For me, believe me, it is more honest that an initiative is being announced to change the way the governor's election is being elected, so whoever really decides on the proposal will be both factually and formally, and legally, and not by law, not by acting as the Finance Committee fully legislative body, if we share ourselves here in opposition or power, allowing ourselves to be a parliament, but rather by being the ruling majority and opposition. But we have to establish here, and that's our job, is this first one to enable them to work by having a better salary, even if it's similar to what the private auditors have, but we have to fight for the auditor's reports to be talked about here. I think it's time I said something else. Do any of us expect that we have high-quality auditors if on the Agency for Business Registers website you see that audit institutions, audit houses dealing with other entities have huge jobs, we all know that they charge their work very high, but do not show real profits, not even close to what they really earn on this market and from these companies? Whose job will it be to establish such an accounting system that we have proper income records, a realistic profit display? Because from that tax, it's funded by the parliament, but also by the pregnant woman, the student, the soldier, the professor, the cop, everyone else. I would like one such initiative to be here soon, that primarily accounting coverage, means, what we show that we are doing and that we have earned in the Assembly, the Government, the ministries, public enterprises, agencies, and audit institutions, is as realistic as possible and so that everyone gets what is his – both the state and those who are on the state glare. I repeat, I want this to be just a beginning, not an exception where, by giving one institution financial opportunities to work, they will establish and recognise the right to objectivity, and everyone else is waiting for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40686	Thank you. Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40687	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on amending and supplementing the Law on the State Auditing Institution is on the agenda. At the beginning of a few good things, about these changes and additions to the law. The first particularly important thing is that the bill did not come from the government but from the MPs. As symbolic as this may be, it is important that independent institutions controlled by the government have no direct influence whatsoever. It is therefore good that the MPs did so, as the MPs proposed several years ago the text of the Law. The other good thing is, as with the first good thing, what MPs did. Most of the laws in our parliament come from the government. I don't think Mr. Pastor is right. I'm not sure, but it seems to me that another law proposed by the MPs was in this assembly. It seems to me that the LSV MPs did and that their bill had already been in the process. It is not a good thing that there are at least twenty laws in the procedure proposed by opposition MPs who will obviously never come to the agenda. It is not a good thing, since Parliament is obviously no longer having a problem with time, the opposition's MPs do not have the opportunity to express their political programmes in this room. We have found it necessary for Parliament to give full support to the State Auditing Institution. No state audit in the world works well without parliament. The national audit institution is not a body to replace the work of other bodies. The prosecution, the courts and the police should do their job. This body should do some other thing and, as good as the law is and as good as all these norms of the law are, as strong as the auditors are, if they don't have the support of parliament, they don't give maximum results anywhere in the world. What is the significance of the state audit? I regret to say that we are the last country in the world to get this institution, but how important the matter is and how important the DRI is is to say that Serbia's public revenues are about 43% of GDP and that the DRI should control how these funds are being spent. It's about 12-14 billion euros every year. If the percentages are saved, you'll see for yourself how much money it is. If we recall only the first report that the State Audit Institute has made, we see how many systemic problems need to be addressed in order to spend state money, the money of all citizens of this country is much more quality and efficient. The Law on the State Auditing Institution, whose changes are on the agenda (all several members are being changed), allows the State Audit to control all direct and indirect budget users; it gives the possibility to control even private companies in the segment when they are operating with the State, because this is the only way to determine whether there is an irregularity. If you have companies that build roads and if you see irregularities in "The Ways of Serbia", the only way to get the irregularity to the end is to go and control these economic entities that are completely private and that have worked with the state in some segment. The national audit institution is the only body dealing with the purpose of investment. Someone can pave the way only in their community, someone can deal with the purchase of cars, computers, lighting the facade of the National Assembly, whatever, but the DRI has an assignment to determine if it was meant to be done at that very moment. It's the only body in the system that's ours that does the job. When we look at what the problems are in the work so far, many governments are responsible, not just one; when we look at the report that they delivered to us a few months ago, at the end of last year, they say in their report -- they don't have the necessary number of auditors, they don't have adequate conditions, they don't have full capacity to do their job, they say they couldn't even review the previous years and they had to take an improvised base for their budget, that it was 2008. For all these reasons, they do not express their opinion on the draft law on the final account. Non-expression is one of the categories in the revision. The state audit was unable to determine exactly according to the final account. Now it's half of May 2010. As far as I know, none of the problems they had six months or a year ago, when this job started working, was removed. This means that in 2010, when the draft final account report is on the agenda, the problems will be the same. It means that even in 2010, we have no idea what's going on in public enterprises, what's going on in agencies, what's going on in a number of state bodies. When we look at the review report, for just a few percent of the audited entities, at the part of the business and the ministry, that it's a report from a few dozen sides with taxuously mentioned failures, we can imagine what it's going to be when the serious revision of public companies funds and large local self-governments takes place. In order for that to happen, they must get the necessary conditions for their work. We keep talking in descriptive categories – the necessary conditions should be created. A necessary condition is a matter of relative importance. The relative condition here in Serbia today may be slightly different in America, and Africa is slightly different. We're getting to the extent of the State Auditor's salary. This law changes several members who actually change the salary of a state auditor. When this law is carefully read, the law only prescribes one member of the Law on the salaries of civil servants, as the Law on the salaries of civil servants specifically defines the coefficient and salaries of civil servants and cannot be changed directly by this law. This has already been established by some other law. The coefficients for civil servants are set by the Budget Law. This law, in fact, just prescribes a provision of the Law on the salaries of civil servants. We come to the Council's salary, the authority that manages the audit and who manages this institution. Their salaries were defined in relation to the president of the National Assembly. That is absolutely logical because the president of the Assembly and the Assembly, who chooses a state audit, must have at least a little more responsibility than all those elected by this assembly. We've come into a paradoxical situation so the DRI can't do its job because their salary is tied to the president's salary. The president of the assembly can obviously do his job, she's not getting paid here, she's getting paid in college. It's this paradoxical situation. When you look at the amendment of fellow Members... The law proposes that the salaries of state auditors of members of the Council, i.e. the president be 30% higher than the salary of an authorised state auditor. My colleagues suggested that it be 40%. Some others have suggested that it be 50%. Why 30%? Why 40%? Why 50%? When we look at the wages paid by state institutions, by various agencies, you see that there are not two agencies that have the same salary. It just means that there are no regulations that uniquely define wages. Then we'll ask if that figure is 30, 40 or 50% and what is the right measure to enable their work and their independence. We will support all amendments submitted by various MPs. Of course we are in favour of allowing the State Auditing Institution to do its job, but the salary of the State Auditor will only create another necessary condition for them to do their job. A necessary condition is that they have support in parliament. This support must not be declarative, that support must be essential. To get support, parliament needs to discuss what the DRI is doing. It seems to me that the State Audit Act is quite clear here. The article of the 55th Law unequivocally states the following thing: “The body of the Assembly’s work after considering the report of the Institution, ” means the Finance Committee, “its views and recommendations in the form of the report are delivered to the Assembly. On the basis of the essential facts and circumstances set out in the reports of the Assembly, it shall decide on the proposed recommendations, measures and deadlines for their implementation. The Assembly may require the institution to further clarify certain facts and circumstances." So the position of the 2nd member unequivocally states that when the Finance Committee analyzes these reports, makes recommendations, does not report, an independent body report of this type is not discussed, and that is not the subject of decision-making... The Assembly cannot accept and reject a report of such an independent body, but it can discuss recommendations to make things better. As far as I know, there is Mr Krasic, the Finance Committee is sitting down and adopted recommendations. So the theme of the assembly session can't be an independent body report, but it can be a recommendation. Those recommendations are not discussed. Although there was a proposal to put it on the agenda, it is not discussed. On the one hand, we say: pay is required. Yes, pay is necessary, but in order for the state review to do its job, we need to discuss what they did and what they concluded in their work. It doesn't have to be just personal responsibility. When you look at this report, it has personal responsibilities, they write about it in the paper, and I'm not going to waste a word of it, but there are also serious things here that point to systemic disadvantages. Our problem and our task is to remove these systemic deficiencies so they don't happen during the coming period. Our task is to discuss reports and final accounts before budgeting so that these reports and these final accounts from year to year will be better. The real support of the State Auditing Institution by Parliament is precisely that – to allow them material conditions, to be given good laws, but to discuss all their conclusions, whoever is guilty or whoever is responsible. As far as I know, there are ministers from different parties in those appointed ministers. Therefore, such things should not be party color. We should conclude whether there are systemic deficiencies and Parliament's task is to remove the shortcomings as soon as possible. Close our eyes won't solve the problem. Pretending there isn't a problem can make this problem much bigger than it is. That's exactly how the conditions for working in the DRI are going to be created. The fact that we're going to bid whether it's 30%, 40% or 50% will certainly correct their status, but it will lead us as parliament on a completely wrong path, because then every next time we measure, since we don't have a single regulation, whether it's a more important director of the Central Registry of Values or the Governor of the National Bank, whether it's a more important President of the Council of the DRI or the President of the Constitutional Court. Parliament's attitude is defined in terms of salaries, and parliament votes all those decisions, compared to the salaries of all those officials. Then we'll get into a situation where we actually determine the relative relationship between individual salaries. It's in our interest to have very high-quality personnel working in the state administration. Then quality personnel will move from institution to institution, depending on where they have a higher salary. The problem with the DRI with the frames was that they were going to some other institutions. Unfortunately, quality personnel do not have enough to be employed in all state bodies. Then we'll always have a problem that brings us back to the beginning. We will discuss the proposed amendments in detail. Once again, we absolutely support changes to the laws that create material conditions, but I think there is still room for us to come out uniquely with the position of pay to be and to come out uniquely about supporting the State Auditing Institution, because there are also business opportunities for that. We will certainly do much more work than by voting on the percentage of the salary increase of the state auditor and members of the Council. It's certainly a much better way and a way to guarantee that this institution will do a much better job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40688	Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40689	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I would firstly consider these percentages, given that Mr. Obradovic in his good presentation launched a topic, which was central to the Finance Committee, and it concerns our proposal on how much it takes to raise salaries for DRI employees in order for them to get the right working conditions, so that, as they said in their report last year, they can attract appropriate staff, people, to have the opportunity to do their job in a good way and in the right way. We started with a proposal that was accepted in principle by members of the Finance Committee. However, when we all looked together at what the salary of President of the DRI Council would be, the first projection was about 270,000 or 300,000 dinars. In general, let me say, the hacks at the level of receiving civil servants could not reach an agreement on this and be a proposal, although initialally even for that amount of funds and for those salaries, the Ministry of Finance gave a positive opinion and said they had nothing to do with it in principle and had enough resources to ensure that the members and president of the Council were paid so much. By doing so, the employees' salaries would be higher. We were almost agreed by the Finance Committee to refer such a proposal to the Assembly, however, following some subsequent political consultations, it was still seen that there was no political mood to so dramatically increase salaries to the president and members of the Council. When we talk about what the right pay measure is for the president or members of the Council, at this point we can only go from their wish, what pay they want to have. In my amendment, I suggested that it be 50%, because in the end, in the talks that we as members of the Finance Committee led with the representatives of the DRI, above all with the president and the secretary, their last wish was to be exactly what I want to support. I agree completely that we do not have any parameters that would allow us to establish, for example, the salaries of all other responsible persons on the basis of the salary. I must say that we are all ourselves to blame for bringing the National Assembly into such a situation that citizens today think that these salaries we receive are too high for what is done in the National Assembly. I am convinced that in another period, we will manage to fight together for a better position and status of the National Assembly, not as some institution where we now have a majority, but as an institution that should have a central place in Serbia's political system. I am convinced that even for those of us who are in power today, this is certainly not the position of the National Assembly, and I am convinced that neither those who come to power after us will be in the interest of either the political or any other, that the National Assembly will be an institution that has no envious support for the citizens. I believe that in the next few months or the next year or two, we will be able to fix this situation with some moves. As far as working conditions are concerned, I wouldn't tie working conditions exclusively to pay. You know, if someone chooses you from the President of the Council or a member of the Council of the One State Council, then you can't just look at it through pay. It's one huge wind in the back of your private career. If we want to set these things up like that, the president of a country, the President of America, earns 50 times as much after leaving office as he makes formally while he's president of that state. So, we can't always watch and say right now – someone is at the head of the Council and in those four, five, or six years he needs to garner such a salary that he doesn't have to do anything for the rest of his life. I think there are two elements: on the one hand, of course, it is important that financial independence is important, and on the other hand, there is simply an element of honor and the fact that you are the only one, or you are the only five people in all of Serbia who have the opportunity to do this job, and I am sure that there are several dozen candidates in Serbia who could do this job equally well. I'm sorry that the story of the DRI is practically downgraded to receipts, whether the salary is this big, whether a member of the Council has the right to a warm meal. It's just that we're sending a picture like it's a passing function that's going to last for a few years, that these people are going to be there and then they have nothing to do in life. I don't think it's a good message, and I don't think that that's why the Finance Committee didn't accept the idea of going to the DRI to extend the term of office. We believe it is important that we also think about extending the mandate, but that the next time we choose all of us together, and we who choose and people who will be elected, what does it mean, what does it mean if as representatives of Serbian citizens we choose someone to do this responsible state job for five years, so that has a certain, I can even say the economic price and huge benefits. I think this debate is good and there is no big difference between the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition. It can also be seen that there are some amendments that are almost entirely identical, whether they come from parties of the ruling coalition or parties of the opposition. What we need to do in this way is raise awareness of the citizens and all of us together about an institution that has just been formed in Serbia for the past few years and that should last for the next tens of years. What we're doing today is just some kind of rock foundation that in five, ten, or fifteen years' time, it's an institution that's going to have full public support and that's going to be respectable, where they're going to work capable, educated people, who are going to do this job the best way. When the DRI report appeared and I myself acted quite negatively in the way he appeared in public and I also told Mr. Sretenovic as President of the Council. I think he made a big mistake at that point, that he just went public, raised expectations. After the report, a good number of citizens expected that some civil servants would literally end up in prison. Such a picture was created by bringing the report to the public completely unselective and without good preparation for the public what the findings are and what the consequences will be. We today, a few months after that, have the fact that there have been misdemeanors, that there have been certain failures, that some of the gaps, as has been said here, have been systematically, that some mistakes have been made, but that is not even close to what the citizens thought they were when that report appeared early this year and when a few days, two or three weeks have lasted real hacks both on the government, and on MPs and on all state institutions. I think that was a big mistake, and I hope that everyone in that error will learn from the lesson, and that when we discuss the report for this year, we will have much better working conditions, that it will be in the National Assembly or in the Finance Committee, but that when we discuss it in a way that does not mean some kind of public decomposition, feeding the public, which is tired of various political quirks and, of course, eager to see who did what, who made the mistake and what was the scale of that mistake. So people who do work in the DRI must be aware of their positions, they must be aware of the weight of the words they say. They must be aware that even during the previous, present and future governments, their engagement should have nothing to do with the political background, to be very skilled at avoiding any political abuse of their work. It seems to me that a few months after the first report, the DRI situation is much better. I think that institution has one correct treatment in the National Assembly. I'm not convinced that everyone knows how important DRI is, that it has absolutely sincere support for everyone, but it doesn't need us in the National Assembly to prevent us from adopting amendments to this law, whether we end up adopting it in the proposed amount or it's going to be something more. I don't think that's really the point, the point is that we send a message this way, and people who work in the DRI and the public and those people whose work DRI will control, that there's absolute and undivided support for the operation of the DRI, and that's one process that can never go back to the starting point again. I am sorry that our State Auditing Institution has done less in the past few years than it has done, for example, such an institution in Montenegro. They've started before. We are, unfortunately, practically the last country in the region to start, which has had the results of DRI work, but this does not mean that this bad start is an excuse for some future period. I hope, too, that the scope of DRI's work will be much wider than it's ever been before. I think by adopting this law, we put an ad act on the DRI's working conditions. So if, even after these amendments to the law, when we listen to the next report, we have the opportunity to hear that the conditions of work were not good, that there are not enough candidates, then we can come to a situation where we can ask ourselves what the conditions of work are necessary for one such institution to do its job well. I believe and hope that the DRI this year will get the strength to give an opinion, not to abstain from the opinion of the audit that will make us, as informed by the media, but rather spells over the past few weeks. What is also important is that the focus of the state audit institution's work is to move slightly towards public enterprises. If we had had DRI before, we wouldn't have had this disgrace happening to us with NIS, that a year and more after the company sold "Gasprom" we don't know what its result is, that the people who are the Russian side, who have invested the funds, are now coming into the situation to realize that there are much more losses than it looked at the beginning and that we don't even know today that what we thought we were going to be income or the state in the next few years will be denied for their share of the profits because it shows that things are very different than they looked. It is therefore important that the work of the DRI be extended to public enterprises, to local self-government, and that it be a message to all people chosen by citizens and available to citizens that each spending of taxpayers' money will be subject to control and that they work with that awareness. I think that preventive function is much more important in Serbia than the finding itself, either one that was during this year, or one that will appear next year, a concrete finding. Therefore, much more important is this preventive function and strengthening the awareness of the state administration, local self-government and public enterprises that there will always be an institution that will have enough capacity, readiness and courage to deal with the analysis of finance, any money that is taxpayers' money. It is, however, one thing that has moved far ahead in Serbia, and I think the situation is much better. I think that today we are practically doing what we promised citizens in the election campaign, which is speeding up Euro-Atlantic integration. So there were a lot of political paroles, there were a lot of stories, and there were few (we seem often) concrete results. With these things, we and the EU are sending a message that we are ready to accept the standards that exist there before we become a full member of the EU. If we put into the focus of our political action in the future what we ourselves can do in order to get closer to EU standards as soon as possible, instead of talking daily about when the day will come when Serbia will officially join the EU, I think we will do things much faster and more efficiently and that day will come much faster than if we bid daily on the day and date. So G17 plus will absolutely support the bill. We'll see if there's any chance that the amendments can be improved in our opinion and further improved. I believe that in this way we will remove the question from the agenda whether there is institutional support for the DRI, that we will give them a new wind in the back to work correctly and that in the coming period we will be able to expect much better reports, much more coverage and that this will also make the management of public finances in Serbia more effective than in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40690	Thank you, Mr. Senic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Senic, don't mind me speaking directly to you, but there are a few sentences you have spoken and with which I really agree. The SRS cannot say that they are not correct and okay, but you have to admit that every story about the EU and European integration is deplaced when you analyse the executive's relationship to the DRI, the relationship of the different majority to the DRI for the last five or six years since it was formed. Even these changes and additions that we are talking about today are not until the end of the change that should happen, and there is doubt and absurd talk about European standards when it comes to the DRI and does not question at all. Here's why I'm telling you this. The relation of the executive government, the parliamentary majority behind this executive authority to the DRI, is, in fact, a manifestation of your relationship with the standards that exist in this developed world. It's nice to think of NIS, but you've bypassed many other public enterprises and institutions, and it would be much more interesting and more beautiful to hear what was happening in them, because of the fact that the government has done nothing to facilitate the work of the DRI, to blow the wind into its back to present Serbia as a serious and responsible state in the 21st century, as we could hear it today in this room. What no one is going to argue about today is the fact that the salaries in the DRI were what they are, that they may have been the reason why the institution didn't function, one of the reasons; we are all agreed today that they should be changed and made adequate. For the Serbian Radical Party, stories about DRI today should not have come down to these changes alone. There are some other changes that we may need to make today, to discuss them, to get quality changes and additions in the parliamentary debate, and to round these changes and additions into one continent so that the State Auditing Institution can function properly. You were right in that segment when you said it was unfortunate that the story of the functioning of this institution was reduced only to wages. It's not a good message to anyone, but we'll get to that, and we'll get to why the SRS has that attitude. If you remember, there was a theme session here a few weeks ago that we discussed, or had a chance to ask the representatives of the DRI about the report, the effects of the crisis, etc. Now imagine the irony, those who asked for that thematic session, did not ask the DRI any concrete questions. They didn't even touch on how to solve the pay problem we're discussing today. The Serbian Radical Party then raised several questions, also raised the question of salaries, but we also raised the issue of DRI independence, and the issue of some other laws that follow the work of the DRI and that would allow it to carry out its work in an adequate and complete manner. Here, today we're only discussing wages. There are some members that we would really raise as a question and change them; let's say, that's Article 5 in which abstract categories are: an institution can give, if necessary, etc. So we had something similar in yesterday's debate, nothing specific, nothing concrete. We'd change that maybe one way or another. You also have in this law a provision that twenty MPs can launch an initiative to replace auditors, presidents, members, etc. Is that a good category? Does that not question the independence of this institution? Given the experience with most of the country's management today and the fact that those who are the biggest in that group are prone to the smaller political groups within the majority, imagine if someone in that group comes to mind that for the report that the State Auditing Institution made out of some ministry that they control, they are launching this initiative... Most will agree because of some future laws which, according to you, represent your way into the EU or our European integration. Therefore, changes and additions to the Law were not to be reduced to wages only. That's one thing. These changes and additions also reflect how farsical the government's attitude towards this institution is. Imagine, in your explanation, you wrote that the Finance Committee unanimously recommended in December to the Assembly to amend, but not just the Law on the State Auditing Institution, but the laws on audits and public finances. It's something else. That's more comprehensive, and that applies to everything I've talked about so far. In February, we had the Finance Committee again, so the DRI initiatives were accepted, so we waited for the Ministry's opinion to provide the poor 25,000,000, to confide in this institution. Today we are already halfway through 2010 and we are discussing these changes and additions. We're just listening - we're at the beginning. At what beginning? For five years, the institution has been talking about European integration for ten years, and the functioning of these regulatory bodies is one of the preconditions for your journey into your European integration. Six months we can't get into a situation to secure 25,000,000 dollars to the State Audit Authority. Now you see how insignificant that is. I have an official document with me, and we got it at the end of March, and that's the 2009 budget inspection report. They treated 45 controls, 73% of controlled institutions found irregularities and illegalities. Look out, only the Ministry of Health has transferred funds for the purchase of hospital beds and the rest - 55,552 million. They're not returned. Then, for the purchase of some hemodialysis vehicles - 11,346 million. The money was not returned until the day of control. Only for two purchases, 60 million went into the air, determined as irregularities and lawlessness, and we wait six months to provide twenty-five million dinars for an institution that will ensure that twenty, thirty or fifty billion dinars are saved on the other side. Imagine, if the state kept 50 billion dinars on an annual level, you'd have a halved deficit on an annual basis. There is no political will in power. Then the finance minister comes out and says -- you know, on an annual level of 130 billion dinars, we can't track, we don't know where they're going and where they're going. And the State Audit Institute had, according to the law which is in force and which could change in other segments, so much authority. Just imagine, they can get into the business of a local football club, which receives funds from the local self-government budget. Can any of us MPs sitting here conclude that in the control and audit of such institutions, and in how many institutions, we can find out that we don't have an unfair business? So, not inefficient, not uneconomically, not unsuccessfully, but ineligible business, which includes all three categories of the DRI Act. There are institutions that we could count on the fingers of two hands. This is the report of the budgetary inspection, which unfortunately says the report that we had, which was turned into a farce because of the session at which the Assembly agreed to discuss the topic of this problem; Mr Obradovic mentioned earlier, you were legally obliged in what form, but by law we were all obliged to be the item of the agenda of the plenary debate where certain opinions will be taken on the basis of the opinion and recommendations of the DRI. That's what got away. Then you can't expect us to have a different attitude towards the executive's relationship to one, it should be an independent, regulatory body, or DRI. Look at what's happening parallel to all this stuff. The government announces a package of measures – we will change the tax system, the pension system, we are about to make rational public spending. Imagine the irony, none of you could see, nor could I, unfortunately, what kind of law on public spending control or public expenditures, I don't know how they defined it. The law, according to Minister Diana Dragutinovic, plans to form a fiscal council to control public expenditures in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to monitor whether income and expenditure are balanced. The alternative to this fiscal council is the DRI, which is that the government finds prerogatives and powers, to offer to the State Auditing Institution, on which it will be able to further control public spending. Imagine the shame, we are not asking ourselves as representatives of peoples and citizens, but the proposal is being sent to the IMF to tell the IMF what is good for us and what is not good for us. We don't have a dilemma to solve this. Unfortunately, we're not in a position to do this right now, but you've got bigger dilemmas. Instead of you solving them, they're being solved by someone else. The time we left behind has shown that these solutions are not good, and you have no courage or political will to admit it. The state is still going through the verse, the country is spinning in all directions, so what is waiting for us in some new elections. And these changes and additions of this law and the government's relationship to the DRI are being created and defined on the basis of a future election cycle, because full and concrete measures and support of the DRI at this point, you know well, would not be popular, because you know what would happen through the ministries. What do you expect, to have a different DRI report at the end of 2010 than the one we had before? Based on what? It's been half a year. They've already been audited, and while you're applying what you're going to say in the voting day, while they get the opportunity to hire all these people and conduct competitions, it's going to be another three months. They will already be in the process, i.e. in the phase of preparing the report, which we will have to keep informed of. We said - the 2009 report will be no different from the 2008 report, but when you bring it into line and your election projection, when it will be, nothing is strange and nothing is unexpected. It's obvious that elections are being announced for next year. Unfortunately, as long as there are important political decisions in Serbia, especially when it comes to economics and finance, they will be made on the basis of a projection of the elections, Serbia will choke in the problems and every day will be forever lower, not as we listen today – one's consciousness and opinion are in the 19th century. What is it that we believe we should send on behalf of the SRS as a message to both the State Auditing Institution and those who will be auditors? They have to do everything to stay independent. That's where you fell fat on your exam. All of you who come from certain local environments know very well that local kabadais control both market inspections and labour inspections, that they laugh at us all together. Your ministry is making two solutions over the year and ordering a small public enterprise to return the prices. They're laughing at them. You ask the minister, and the minister, well, I've done everything. Market inspectors go there, directors and presidents of municipalities write with them records, falsify records, play with the state. Now someone needs you to take it seriously, now the DRI is gonna do it right. We've solved everything, just to figure it out. You can also recognize malignancy here. Here's why: tomorrow you will be fenced by DRI and you will tell Mr. Sretenović – what do you want, we gave you money, what's the problem now? In all the other fields, the institution will continue to trip, not to recognize and seek the dirt and traces it clearly has, and you are aware; I am convinced that there is a part of you that is bothering it, but you respect party discipline, unfortunately. It costs us all, but that's right. With these changes, Mr. Sretenovic has made a great commitment to himself. It's his last, who's going to work and who's going to go to the competition. Our message – SRS asks Mr. Sretenovic not only to be people who will enter the DRI because of adequate material satisfaction, because, remember, if they get a salary of 100,000, local cabadias at other levels of government will offer 200,000 that some things are not seen and observed in their reports and records. They must be honorable, honest, and brave people. Also, we'd like to say in the end, let them suggest to people in their audit institutions that they do adequate work, their work, and that within the framework of ministries and institutions, agencies, bodies, wherever they're in control, they're looking for the right things. I don't want to be banal, but this state deserves state auditors in the framework of institutions not to deal with kevapis, or burgers, or hangers, or wine, but to deal with contracts, public procurement and all other big business where big money moves and where that big money disappears. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is a good thing that the problems of the State Auditing Institution will be solved in one segment, but I insist that the government in Serbia essentially did not change its relationship with the DRI and that the problems will continue to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40692	Thank you. National MP Mikhailo Puric has a word, and then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40693	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, we have heard very good debates about the DRI. The Finance Committee has discussed this several times. We took part in this, all MPs who are members of the Committee on Finance were different opinions, but the undivided opinion is that the State Auditing Institution should really do those tasks prescribed by law and what citizens expect from the DRI. I just want to go back to the draft amending and supplementing the law, and I would like to note that the proposed amendments to the DRI Act create opportunities for the institution to humanely strengthen and thus fully respond to the Constitution and the law with certain obligations, in line with the recommendations of the EU institutions. We, as the Committee on Finance, had several meetings, I just want to remind myself of the session of the National Assembly's Finance Committee, which was held on 7 and 8 December 2009 where we discussed the report of the DRI and the revision of the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. At that time, a representative of the DRI introduced us in detail to the problems that the institution has due to the inability to hire a quality audit staff, primarily because of the small salaries of auditors. I think that's what this is about, and I think we should talk about it today when we talk about the bill in principle. What I still want to point out is that according to the current regulations of the state auditor's salary, with the name of the authorised state auditor, 65,000, and the salary of the state auditor with the calling of the state auditor is about 50,000 dinars. The tasks of the State Auditor are highly professional and complex and therefore require that they be paid in an adequate manner, because specific knowledge and skills are needed to carry out these tasks. If we want to say how and how the State Audit Institute works today, first of all I want to point out that it has five state auditors, two top state auditors, so far they are the only persons who can audit in 2010. This number of auditors is insufficient from the aspect of a revision that should be carried out in accordance with the draft plan for 2010, as well as in accordance with the relevant international standards. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the DRI Act would create opportunities for the adoption of audit staff. Three other top state auditors and 27 state auditors are scheduled to be employed in the institution in 2010. We had a chance to hear here that in some way the State Audit Institute was not properly enabled to work. At that session held on 7 and 8 December 2009, the Finance Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the National Assembly that, in view of the conclusions and reports of the DRI, it should be joined by amendments and additions to the Law. What I'm still trying to say is that based on a comparative analysis of the solution to the material and legal status of the supreme audit institutions in the countries of the environment and the countries of the European Union, and given the obligations and responsibilities these institutions have, it is undeniable that the State Auditing Institution should take a special place in the system of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. This will allow for improvement of the institution's material position. This proposal is primarily intended to amend and supplement the DRI Act. I hope that in 2010 and the coming years the State Audit Institute will achieve what is most important, which is to clearly define the cash flows of the taxpayers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be spent precisely for the purposes for which it is intended. As for DS and DS MPs, we will vote on this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40694	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The People's MP Free Maras has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40695	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I must first express great satisfaction with the fact that this proposal for amending and supplementing the law came to the agenda, for the simple reason that in the previous period, whenever a question of the work of the State Auditing Institution, the Liberal-Democratic Party insisted that, among other things, the material position of those working in the DRI begin from the president to the last auditor who will work in the DRI. We feel that we've done a great deal, and we've contributed to this on the agenda today. However, I would like to remind my colleagues of the way the State Auditory Institution has crossed this point. So, from the adoption of the Law on the State Auditing Institution to the formation, that is, the election of members of the Council has been over two years, and then the birth pain of a year and a half to get a business space in which it would work, and then the labor pain of receiving new employees, or auditors, again. Of course, none was received, for the simple reason that the conditions offered to those who would apply for state auditors were not conditions that anyone who could take seriously on this subject could accept. We have talked a lot on the Finance Committee, and I must say that thanks to the chairman of the Finance Committee and the chairman of the DRI Council, good co-operation has been achieved between this independent body and the Finance Committee. Often we met, there were many different opinions, but we on the Committee and the DRI itself agreed that it was necessary to bring into the material position of the DRI employee in order for people to be motivated to apply for work. There has already been a competition; out of several hundred of them who have applied for only one man has met the conditions, but if he were to work for a salary of 50,000 to 60,000, it would indeed be equal to misrepresenting itself, for the simple reason that in the private sector the salary could be up to ten times higher. Of course, we cannot even the state and private sector, but when it comes to DRI, we believe that any salary and material compensation they receive for the work they are doing, and in the public interest and in the interest of the citizens of this country, is not great. I think there's been a bit of a change in thesis over the past few years. When the first DRI report was presented, attacks on the State Audit Authority immediately started because of the way it published its report. However, everything has been done in accordance with the regulations. They handed it over by the presidents of the Assembly to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and held a press conference. There was no need to get to know us from the board first. That's where the little controversy started, first of all from the ruling majority, which is why it was done in such a way. In fact, instead of the report itself, which we all understood was the report that... I mean, the report itself says that there is no conclusion, or that it cannot be taken for the simple reason that a small number of budget users are controlled. Then the vast majority of parliamentary groups supported the DRI, all in the hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss the DRI report within a week, two weeks, three weeks, five weeks. Mr. Radojko Obradovic of the Democratic Party of Serbia talked a lot about it; there is also the chairman of the Finance Committee who will certainly note that we, as the Finance Committee, have proposed to you, Madam President, that the plenary session discuss the recommendations of the DRI. Unfortunately, this was not accepted and something was done that led to the replacement of thesis. One parliamentary group proposed that one of the topics be the DRI report on the scheduled day. In fact, instead of budget users where abuses were established, we took more care of it, or some parliamentary groups, to avoid being rude, were no longer engaged in the State Audit Institute. Independence is not only achieved through economic security, but also through economic security. In order for the State Audit Institute to be independent, it must indeed be financially rewarded to anyone who works in it, because the job done in the DRI is one of the most important jobs in the country. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia is one of the last countries where the state audit institution has come to life, but I do have faith and hope that from year to year, DRI will improve its work, that each report will become richer and richer data and that more and more control of budget users will be carried out in the coming years. As LDP, we asked the president of the State Auditing Institution to have one of his first jobs controlled by public enterprises, that one of his first jobs be the control of political parties. We're hoping to find... As far as we have information, the State Audit Institute has started to control public enterprises, but we expect it to also start with the control of political parties. What's interesting also in this topic is that we are one, free to say, of rare countries, even in the Balkans, who didn't have a chance when she adopted the budget for this year to discuss the report for the previous year, to see how money was spent and how we can give our vote for the budget proposal, let's say, for 2010. We were unable to discuss the 2008 report in 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, how funds were spent. In order to be able to adopt any serious draft budget law, it is necessary that, apart from the DRI report, which would be an integral part of the final budget account... We can only discuss it that way, so that we know how money is spent, so that we can give a voice about how it will be spent in the future. The state audit institution, I may say, has experienced a certain kind of pressure that has come primarily through the media, but this is always the case with all independent bodies, to suffer the pressure of certain acts in society. She managed to control a number of budget users, including the ministry. There have been irregularities in these ministries. I truly have faith that all these irregularities will be removed. First of all, there are irregularities in public procurement, and I think that's something that should be dealt with in the DRI in the future. Once again, the Liberal Democratic Party has been insisting from the very beginning that the material position of DRI employees, regardless of who is at the head of the Council and who makes the Council, improves dramatically, but also increases salaries to auditors. The fact that the President of the DRI Council will now have a more significant salary than he had does not mean that the DRI will work better, that quality personnel will be received, but all auditors who are employed in the DRI, after the competition has been announced, must indeed have an adequate material position. Although there were talks on the Finance Committee that it would be good to employ young people in the DRI, we think it would be good to receive young people in the DRI, but we could not possibly be auditers. We need to receive the highest quality personnel when it comes to DRI, and young people who work as trainees or as trainees start and later receive it should go into the audit process for several years, five or ten, so they can do the audit on their own. That is why I say once again that we are pleased that the material position of DRI employees will be improved, but we are not satisfied that the position of the auditors themselves, not those who make up the Council, has not been improved more drastically, which is why there are no more salaries. I hope that there will be new amendments to this law in the future, that there will be even more improvement in the material position, but I also hope that in the near future we will have amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. I say that because the Republic of Serbia, I must repeat, is the country that is last in the Balkans for the following things – it is parliamentary budget control. Other countries, even more complex than Serbia itself, such as BiH, get the opportunity to discuss the draft budget much earlier, the final bill for the previous year and the recommendations of the state audit institution at the plenary session. I hope that the State Audit Institute in the period ahead will have more control, that it will have the opportunity to employ as many quality people as possible and that the only benefit will be the public interest, i.e. the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40696	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS - JS, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, SRS and ZES. I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic of the SPS-JS Group. After Mr. Milicevic, Milos Radulovic will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40697	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as it is said among other things, I would like to repeat once again at the beginning that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Auditing Institution. What I would like to point out once again is that it is very important that the DRI as an independent institution gave its opinion on the state of public finances in 2008. We welcome the work of the DRI and believe that this is a good basis for introducing order into public finances. This is the first government to assist the work of the DRI and which is working to improve the position of auditors in order to make the quality of the job better and thus result in the fact that this government is hiding nothing. We are convinced that the next report, as it is said, will be more comprehensive, more precise and extensive, that it will not be done by the model method and will not be covered by only 25% of public finances, and only by the state budget, because public finances are not just the state budget. Eight thousand subjects or something more subject to review. The fact is that there are not enough auditors and in order to improve the working-material position, we support this proposal so that this institution works in full capacity. The proposed profit is, I would like to say, very competitive and represents an expression of the support of the Committee on Finance and MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are convinced that the work of the State Auditing Institution in full capacity will give the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest body of the legislative authority, more quality control when it comes to laws adopted and adopted in the Republic of Serbia, or when it comes to their implementation and application. What's certainly not good about DRI's work, I want to say it once again, is that the DRI report first appeared in public, and only then at a session of the resolution committee in the republican parliament. By public appearance, our opinion has created a basis for politicization. The Committee's session does not mean that the public is excluded, does not mean that the public would not be able to look at the facts, the arguments, because the Committee's sessions are not closed to the public. The board meetings are public. When you organize a press conference, then the public has only one chance to hear it. At the meeting of the Committee, we could hear, we were convinced, more facts, more arguments and there were several parliamentary groups, representatives of the parliamentary groups and, of course, the DRI. It is true that the law does not explicitly state that the report should first appear at the Committee's session, but in this way, we are convinced, raising credibility and the State Auditing Institutions and the Republic Parliament. We don't want to believe that someone wanted to politicize this story. How is she politicized? Let's say, when it comes to misappropriations, specifically, which are directed towards the Ministry of Education and Education, after this very important press conference in the public, on the basis of reports that we could look at after the conference was held, it was not possible to see, when it came to the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure relating to the responsible person of the Ministry, and the responsible person of the Ministry was the minister, it was not possible to see that it was not the catering services used by the minister, but the Ministry at the whole level, but well, we are convinced that the practice in the next period would be something different. Of course, it should be left to the judicial authorities to carry out their part of the work without pressure when it comes to misappropriations, just as the State Audit Authority did. We support this proposal, that's what I want to say once more at the very end. We have no amendments, but we are ready for dialogue and we will take part in the debate in particular, because it is an extremely important issue. It is about a process which has been opened and we expect the DRI to play that role, which is that it has an advisory role, in addition to controlling the reports, to give expert opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40698	Thank you. Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40699	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that all the parliamentary groups and all the representatives of the parliamentary groups who spoke of this draft law amending and supplementing the DRI Act have highlighted the importance of this institution. But I would immediately ask why the ruling majority was not ready when the Democratic Party of Serbia came out with a request in February to discuss this assembly's 2008 report on the DRI's work, when the National Assembly was to give its opinion and recommendations on the report? This is what immediately puts all of us in doubt whether these words and such are true intentions. You will agree that every citizen should know how funds are spent from the budget, to say people's money, because the money being poured into the budget is exactly from the citizens of Serbia and much greater responsibility is needed and the public in informing citizens about the spending of these money. In order to have a quality report at all, it is necessary that this State Auditing Institution, which otherwise has great powers, be staffed, materially and technically well equipped. It's the interest of all political parties. Only such a State Auditing Institution will be able to fully control the spending of people's money among all budget users, and not few, there are about nine and a half thousand. If these entities are known to be beneficiaries of budget funds, nine and a half thousand of them, at the same time ordering, that about 80,000 bidders work with them, that some 250,000 contracts are concluded over the year, then we can also understand how important DRI is. In 2009, budget beneficiaries made public procurements worth 330,000,000 euros only for the first six months, without control, without the public procurement procedure as the law says, and I will remind you, about 40% of all public procurements made. Citizens have the right to know the full truth and that procedure, with the help of this strong institution, is completely transparent, public, so that we all know how to spend people's money. It is normal to prevent corruption when we have such a public and supply control. This year, 11.2 billion dinars were allocated for the first four months of the public procurement budget in the area of goods and services. Anyone responsible knows it's big money, it's folk money, and there has to be control of those funds. In order to prevent any attempt at something illegal in these purchases, it is necessary to know that every dinar has been spent. In order to have knowledge of each spent dinar, it is necessary for all of us to have a sufficient number of people, who will do this job in the highest quality way. The president of the DRI said that this institution should have 70 auditors, not seven, that the response for state auditors is weak, and that the reason for this, I quote, is "most because of low wages, which are multiplely less than those in some other, non-state auditors' houses"... that quality personnel, material and all other conditions are dealt with by the DRI and entered into the secrets of public finances, that it does not occur to us that the government has no insight into how 130 billion dinars have been spent, that we no longer have the situation as in 2008 when only six ministries and only 27% of one budget item were controlled, as if drinking was one of the key political issues, with misapplications for which a fine of 50,000 dinars was threatened. Corruption, which is the main problem, remains intact. The state audit institution is running a check on the legality of spending budget money for 2009 in only five ministries due to a small number of auditors, and these days it will start in two more. According to DRI President, nearly 75% of the budget is passing through those ministries, and three-quarters of their paper will be controlled. In terms of the economic crisis, it is necessary to know and verify the spending of every dinar, and that means all the funds and all the budget users, and that DRI cannot do with this number of people. Finally, the State of the State of the State Auditing Institution must not spare, because it is the only way that citizens and the National Assembly can receive a valid and complete report on the spending of budget money, which we MPs need to conduct a valid debate, give opinions and recommendations. Those who do not purposely spend budgets should be punished for this, as it is a question of whether a fine of 50,000 dinars for action such as the accidental spending of budget funds is adequate, especially in conditions where these same state officials call on the people to tighten their belts until the state comes out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40700	The word is made by Mr Milan Vukkovic, and let Ms Marina Ragus be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40701	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to speak in the capacity of one of the motions to amend and supplement the Law on the State Auditing Institution. Today, the debate in the congregation, of course as always, went a little wider than the subject of the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law, which counts only five members. The essence of what the law will bring is to improve wages, to receive those who are in the DRI. We, as the Finance Committee, a group of MPs, supported the DRI initiative to amend and supplement this law, because the moment the first report on spending of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget came out in 2009, we heard commendation. It is truly commendable for the government that the first government in which such a report is published is. On the other hand, we have heard a number of criticisms addressed to the DRI, to the state in general, that all these funds have been spent without purpose and that it would only be seen if the DRI enters deeper into the spending of these funds, if it is checked that funds are being spent in public enterprises, etc. On the other hand, we had to hear the voice of the DRI. They told us – we don't have enough funds, our salaries are low, so we can hire more state auditors. What we could do and what we did is propose amendments and additions to this law that increase the acceptance of those who will be authorised by state auditors, state auditors, president of the Council, and everyone else in that institution. I know that DRI salaries are not stimulating, as they are not stimulating in most of the state sector, but, well, we have to save, public spending has to be kept under control. We can't afford the luxury of paying in the state sector going high to stimulate workers I don't know how much. However, we respect the specificity of the DRI, and I think we have come across the general agreement both in the Finance Committee and among the MPs today in the debate that it is necessary to increase incomes in the DRI. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has delivered the opinion that it is possible to allocate twenty-five million dinars from the current budget reserve for salaries in this institution. How to raise salaries in the DRI, this was the next question, since they are related to the salaries of MPs, specifically the president, or the president of the National Assembly as an institution, and the vice president of the National Assembly? One way was to raise salaries to the MPs, which we certainly didn't want, we have 250 MPs, in this year it wouldn't be a quality proposal, although I see approvals from different sides, but, of course, I'm kidding. The second was, which we did, that the salary of an authorised state auditor would be taken with a salary belonging to a civil servant in the first group of positions, and that the salary of a state auditor with the calling of a state auditor would be taken with the salary of a civil servant in the second group of positions. That's why the salaries in the DRI will be significantly higher than they are now. Let us, as the Assembly, support it, go out to meet the DRI, but let us also ask them for results, because this is exactly what they asked of us as Members of Parliament and Parliament. We expect that the next report will be more complete and that we will see state resources being spent, as we have said, deeper or wider, because it is 12 or 13 billion euros a year. In addition to receiving, the proposed additions to the Law regulate the question of the number of auditors, the way in which they build a working relationship, the duration of working relationship and other rights. So that's all this law is about. Everything else is a debate that makes sense, but I wanted to draw attention as one of the promoters to what these amendments and the additions of the Law bring. We want people's money to be spent domestically and we support those who control the spending of that money. Thanks to the amendments and additions to the Law we have proposed, we will hire, the state will hire, or DRI, three new top state auditors and 27 state auditors. That is why I call on all MPs to repeat our declarative support that we have all given to the DRI in voting day and to make this one decision. It's a good thing she came from the MPs, not from the government or from another proposing. That is why I call on all MPs to vote here, to vote for it, and to wait for the next DRI report, with some quality data. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40702	Thank you. National MP Marina Ragush. Let MP Miroslav Petkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40703	So it's really an extraordinary opportunity to talk about such sensitive topics during the plenary session. Believe me, I've been paying attention to your exposure. What's recognizable to power is that he always wants to, but rarely when he does, unfortunately. What we had the opportunity to hear, when we were discussing and trying to put the State Audit report on the agenda of the plenary session when it was time we failed. What has fascinated me on a regular basis is that since 2000, here, it is the tenth year that the parties that have gravitated the former DOS are in power, we are talking only this year about the review of the executive authority, that is, the control of the spending of the citizens, who are following us this time. So, your presentation, dear colleague, a respected colleague, would indeed be one of the very valuable exposures that what you were talking about follows the result of the executive authority and that the DRI did not establish with its report a significant irregularity, or direct violation of the law that this authority also through this Parliament has carried out by its majority. Why are we so classy for some time getting out of the topic? That's where I agree with you. Some times it really needs to focus on what is really important, especially in a period of crisis, for citizens who have the opportunity to monitor these plenary sessions. When you talk about the state auditor, you should talk about the fact that in 1999, the campaign manager of the then DOS promised strong institutions, democratic procedures and respect for the rules. You started an initiative ten years later that in this democratic society, which respects rules and procedures, we are talking about external control of the resources of all citizens. Dear colleague, we are also talking about how the Ministry of Culture paid for a picture during the crisis, called "Rikalo in the fall", a certain author, several tens of thousands of euros! It is a information that is frantic for Serbian citizens. Let me remind you, and this may also be stylishly coming out of the topic, but it certainly paints this story when it comes to external audits, in Serbia, 720,000 people live below the lower poverty line, over 9% of children in the state of Serbia do not have the basic means of everyday life. We have every right to extend this debate, and it concerns external control of the spending of citizens struggling with the existence daily. Yes, it is commendable that this government and this assembly signed the existence of a DRI, but, you'll allow, it's not exactly an honest intention to want and to expect concrete results. When you got the results you attacked the DRI and the state auditor. So we have been experiencing really violent attacks here by coalition MPs who are in power because we have asked to establish which of the concrete ministers has abused the funds of the Serbian state's citizens. In doing so, the revision included only a few ministries. So what we most often have the opportunity to listen to during plenary sessions is just wishes, but very few possibilities of power. No one here questions that state auditors must have certain resources. What prevented you from first allowing conditions, material and technical assumptions, and then talking about state audit? Aren't we the ones who distracted you that the state auditor doesn't have a room in which he can work, that there are no certain material assets from which he can provide high wages to those who will work in the DRI? Aren't we the ones who said it was a real picture and opportunity of the government's relationship to something that should be the basis of a democratic procedure, which is external control of the spending of funds? So now, in 2010, we can definitely find out, based on the State Auditor's report, that a good part of the ministries, the executive authorities, has been misusing funds that have been poured into the budget. The real object of the DRI should also be where the funds really go, which projects pass, who does the projects and how all the funds invested, and indeed in extraordinary figures, affect the daily life of Serbian citizens. I suppose you won't mind if I present here the official state data of the Republic Statistics Office that 720,000 people in Serbia have only eight thousand dinars per month. Can you imagine what life looks like with eight thousand dinars a month? That's what someone spends on a regular meal, as far as we know. Also, the number of poorest in 2009 increased by 60,000 people compared to the previous year. At a meeting titled "Is Serbia hungry", the minister of labour and social policy adviser said the most endangered ones without primary school, unemployed, especially over 50 years old, disabled, families with children and tenants are at risk. What is also alarming is that the number of citizens receiving social assistance has increased. In a year, the figure increased by as much as 17,000 users, or 9,000 families more than in the same period last year. Thirty-six thousand citizens depend on the meal they receive in the soup kitchens. Also, it is a very worrying and alarming fact that every tenth child up to 14 years in Serbia lives below the line of absolute poverty. This isn't SRS data. This is official government data. It employs less than two million people. There are 768,000 people unemployed. The average salary in Serbia was 33,508 dinars in March, and the average consumer basket was 37,000 dinars in February. Thirty-six thousand citizens depend on meals in folk cuisines, and the percentage of children who do not even have basic needs is 9.3%. The largest growth in poverty is recorded among families with five or more members. Half a million people are waiting for work for more than a year. Women make 55% permanent unemployed. Most unemployed among young people aged 25 to 29, then between 30 and 34. So this is, dear fellow, data from the Serbian state, where only a third of the people in Serbia actually survive. In Serbia, based on many analyses, fear of losing work is greater than fear of death. Why am I talking about this this way? It is a picture and an opportunity for Serbia in which the Ministry of Culture during the crisis, when it is expected for all of us to save so that the most vulnerable, those who regularly remain jobless, without apartments, cars and all that they have provided, can survive, buy a picture of "Rikalo in the fall", which costs 15,000 euros. In the state of Serbia, the government does not want to control the spending of funds coming on the basis of taxes and contributions from citizens. The citizens are getting hungry, and the government is obviously getting more corrupt. The proof is that we are talking about the external audit in 2010, that the report only covered a few ministries; when it started to talk about it, it was taken off the plan and programme of plenary sessions, when it was supposed to be talked about, and we got a dirty campaign on the media because we started the question of where the money was. Why? Because Serbia is in fact hungry and because you ten years after democratic changes do not want to give a concrete answer to the question of where the money is going. Because if you wanted to, the state audit would start in 2001, and that review would cover all public enterprises, all ministries in power, all public procurement, and we would finally have a state of equal opportunities for citizens. Let me remind you, that's what the DOS campaign manager told you in 2000 and promised these citizens, and you lied. We would definitely have a much smaller number of tycoons here, i.e. the real owners of this country, because it would know where every dinar goes, because it would know who is signing and how it wants to improve the everyday life of Serbian citizens. You today have a complete derrogation of basic human rights, and that is the authority you sign, or signed by the state of Serbia. I'll remind you again, 9.3% of Serbian children live below the poverty line and that's a fact that will follow you. In 2010, we are talking about an external audit where the auditor does not have the basic means to work. I'm telling you, in 2011 and 2012, this auditor and this institution, everyone who works there, will have to have an unfettered job experience and special police protection, because if they dare to determine how the funds are really spent, say, in the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Economy, who gets an advance money today when everyone owes, these people will definitely be very threatened, securely. It's what's the fact of this completely corrupt and criminalized society. When you scratch and ask where the money is, who here is doing the jobs, what houses are getting here, how the tycoons are doing the jobs and where the IMF's money is going (mainly Miskovic and like it), you are the victim of dirty media campaigns or you are the victim of a complete disappearance from a political scene or, unfortunately, the victim who gets killed on the streets of the city of Belgrade or any city in the state of Serbia. That's the point. Time will show, and we will, be sure, whether through plenary sessions or through certain media that today have a certain space for this kind of truth, find a way to inform citizens of the Serbian state who have taken their right to life worthy of man. Since you have assumed responsibility to exercise authority and arrange this house, you have signed a criminalised society, in which the differential diagnosis of total poverty is. So what should be the conclusion of this debate is that you, apart from the State Auditing Institution, raise salaries both to the Ministry of Justice and to those who will do certain jobs for the Ministry of Justice. One without another won't be able to go. The answer to the question of who has misused the budget will be enough for us to answer, i.e. the driver of all other issues in this society, which is – who has definitely robbed Serbia, whose name and interest does this executive power exercise? I guarantee you, for sure, it is not the interest of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40704	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40705	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the DRI as the highest state body to audit public funds in the country. This institution is responsible for the control of the legality of the availability of legal persons, the audit of public funds, the organisation of competencies, the work of the republican authorities. We heard from fellow Radulovic, there are almost tens of thousands of subjects to be controlled. The state audit institution started the job, scratched a little bit on the surface, and made some rather timid reports, for which we still don't have an epilogue in court, what happened to them next. Generally, there are some small things, although some serious irregularities have been identified in the report. How many people have done this job, with which resources and under what conditions, I think they should still be recognized for their courage because they started with the ministries in the Republic of Serbia, and not from certain local self-governments, which they also need to control. The State Auditing Institution would have to be independent of the Government, and of course the National Assembly must give it the best conditions to work and give it full support in order for it to truly justify its existence and implement everything provided for in the law governing its operation. In its report, the State Auditing Institution found that millions spent on food and drink, that some money was spent on an exhibition in Krakodar, that the painting "Rikalo in the fall" was purchased, who knows what else. An absurd, which has been debated in public, even a dilemma has arisen whether an unwarranted question has been raised that some 380,000,000 dinars have arrived from donations are not known how it was spent. To make evil bigger, Finance Minister Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic says she doesn't know where that money is and how it was spent. If she doesn't know, someone has to know. That's why there are DRIs, yes, for us in parliament, but also for Serbian citizens, hundreds of millions of dinars are being spent in this country. The purchase of a fuel worth 110,000,000 dinars has been made, and this has not been done in a legal manner. All of this, as well as other failures, and some violations are justly justified by shortcomings in the accounting system, primarily by the prime minister and even some of his associates. Infringements have been committed for all of this, with justifiable dangers of not being finally committed because there is a possibility that these violations may become obsolete, given that a year has been foreseen for antiquity for such acts. Is it then a solution to be given, if the people who have committed these offences do not respond in a misdemeanor procedure, that famous sanction – to ban the promotion in service for the next four years, as the measure was given to the famous secretary in the Serbian Parliament? We still haven't received one important law in this House that should be precise in order to strengthen the control of spending in the Republic of Serbia, which is the law on the budgetary system, the mentioned law by Mrs Dragutinovic, which has been breaking and constantly announcing it for years, but does not come into the process. It's a document that will certainly help us, with the operation of the DRI, to gain real insight into the spending of people's money. The amendment of this law, as stated in the explanation of the amendments and additions to this law, has been agreed and done in accordance with the recommendations of the EU institutions. The European Commission gave its opinion on this law when it was passed, but the European Commission also gave its opinion on judicial reform in Serbia, so we did not have an adequate reaction from the government of the Republic of Serbia. This country lacks a governor, a member of the Supreme Council is missing, a member of the State Council is missing, the auditors are missing, the money is missing, the morals are missing, the responsibility is missing. The state audit institution is the most important controller of the executive authority in each country and it is, in practice, the only authority that has the authority to control the purpose of the expenditure that the state makes. When it is really applied and respected, then no one will be able to cut 300,000 dinars and weeds, but will have to be held accountablely by the funds provided for under their ministry. The parliament of the Republic of Serbia through the DRI has one murderous weapon to control the executive government. These people will not be able to do anything, and if their wages are increased, unless they have the support of the National Assembly. If they're left in the wind, and everyone can criticize them, and it's a problem why they did this to his ministry, then there's nothing to do with it. That is why people who do this responsible job really need to be protected because tomorrow they will have a lot of inconvenience when they present the results of their audit and parliament must stand firm. There have been many nice, commendable words here today, and we have agreed on the bill, the amendments submitted, but I am afraid that when this law comes into force and the auditors start working with new funds, they will still not be able to apply in practice, as we are unable to see the concrete results and effects of most of the laws that this Parliament is making.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40706	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40707	Probably what I'm going to say next won't be interesting for a wider audience because there are a lot of today's discussions that hit the topic. There are good intentions, no one can say that there is no good intention, no one can say that the National Assembly and its Finance Committee do not support the State Auditing Institution and that the result of one conclusion is, in fact, this bill. Of course, if the law was proposed by lawmakers in 2005, it is perfectly normal for them to amend and supplement the proposals also in 2010. You know what life's like? Take the bill, there's a letter and a head; there's a plus and a minus on the battery; there's something that's guaranteed right, but there's something that's abuse of rights. In all normal societies, respect for law should be an absolute priority, and all possible abuses of a right should be prevented, appropriate mechanisms and appropriate sanctions should be prescribed, to prevent violations of regulations and violations of certain rights. In this kind of dialectic life is taking place. If this real life is seasoned with both the political, the mafia and other interests, and it is present with individual representatives of the government, then we have a strange situation and it is being raised, not only hypothetically, but in general, the question – is it worth doing anything if we know in the beginning that all those who vote for this law cannot bear responsibility for its realisation and its application? Then perhaps someone in the heat of some political struggle will call someone because of his best intentions to vote for some law. That's where we all need to be careful. I believe that, with these amendments and additions to this law, we will essentially not achieve 15% of these wishes that we have talked about today. Why? It is estimated that there are between eight and nine thousand beneficiaries of the budget, which are direct, which are indirect, which fall under this law and which the auditors need to control. Excuse me, please, if we could raise this audit institution to 300 authorised auditors, that job can't be done. If this job is to work on an advanced programme and a work plan, then you can conclude that any mobster can move business to another beneficiary of budget funds that will certainly not be subject to control for the next seven years. Then all of what we've told you today will be fog. Furthermore, I get the impression that something has to be said today that needs to be done quickly and in the short term to make this institution stand on its feet as much as possible. Why? The first report was needed to see that only 27% of the beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget were controlled and there were numerous irregularities. I think today's debate has also given unwarranted expectations and great hopes to our citizens that DRI is something that is all-powerful. That's not true at all. Why? I don't know why the State Audit Institute would control public procurement procedures when we have a special commission to do this job? Why should the DRI control something that is already in the jurisdiction of the budget inspection? Then there is something extra – either the budgetary inspection is excess or the Competition Protection Commission or the Commission which takes care of public procurement. Why do we need parallel organs that trip? We have this very situation in this first report. I am absolutely certain that this first report has gone beyond what the revision means. The audit means reviewing something that's been done. The burden should be on the legality of the use of budget funds and the intentional use of these funds, and nothing else. In this report that we discussed in December of last year, we had quite a few parts of the report that fully corresponded to the report delivered by the budgetary inspection. This is not the task of the State Auditing Institution. A state audit institution should be the auxiliary body of the National Assembly, a state body, but what they do requires us to use as a final fact, to draw political conclusions and to call some to account. It's nothing new with us. It's a court of law. This is the last instance. No one can review what the State Audit Authority has established in one of its reports, but the procedure has to be prescribed, since the state auditor enters and begins to control its final report, to allow the user to protect some of his rights and some of his interests in some procedure. And it needs to be settled in some future changes to this law. There's a lot of stupidity in the existing law, say, like a appointment. I don't know if anyone's named indefinitely, a civil servant. For the sake of the public, I must say, these amendments and additions are being made to the basis of the salary of the state auditor, the authorised state auditor and something above, such as the state auditor, the general state auditor, members of the Council, etc. All others with civil servant status remain in the civil servants' pay regime. As far as that institutional supplement is concerned, it's the same solution that exists with civil servants. Will the President of the Council be so independent? He won't, like he's not an independent executive in some government body. Are you going to get paid? If there is money, if there is no money, they will not. So I'm telling you, one is abuse of law, one is right. We provide mechanisms to guarantee respect for rights and respect for the fulfilment of obligations and powers. I have to notice that we are about to have a reform of the entire system, to define what an abuse of authority is. Today you have a law on DRI violations, almost no crime. Someone will say, "That's not good." I think that's good. For what? All those who use it, all ministries as budget beneficiaries are obliged to have an internal audit. The state audit institution, one said, probably slipped it, is not a legislative body. He is normative because he prescribes something that is standard. And it should be prescribed. Probably needs to change the contiguous plan, sort out some other rules of behavior on how to work, but no big expectations need to be raised, not behind the DRI to hide the police, the prosecution and other authorities in charge of this job. You see, today is the main news that some alleged ministers will come to the judge to answer for what the State Auditing Institution has established, etc., but all this is pale. We, when I say "we" mean power, do not have the right attitude towards legality. That's the problem, and the problem can't be solved by an auditor, no matter how zealous. I think we're missing some other mechanisms that need to enable the auditor to do the review, to review the business and what it was like to use those funds. There's no need to have great hope. What I'm saying seems too brutal and real. We can hit our shoulders, swear, but no one in this room is applying the law. The law enforcement is someone else's. In particular, when it comes to this law, its execution in the good part is with the DRI. They need help. Now in Europe, only the Vatican has no revision, if he's even a state. Everyone's got an audit. It's not good to talk about the State Audit Institute being alive a few years ago, and it never existed before. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was, there was. In one period there was also a commission at the National Assembly that was to enable the National Assembly to find the right measure that MPs in the National Assembly would not argue over the fact that something was unintentional, whether something was illegal. It ended DRI, and everyone has a duty to accept it as a final fact. That fact may eventually be subject to a dispute in some criminal proceedings where any other party can in evidence dispute that, but it is far from what we are currently interested in. The Finance Committee has tried to realize its conclusion. They all agree that the material position of these two categories of auditors has an important impact because they carry a job in the DRI. It needs to be increased. There is another danger - that someone should sleep after such a thing, for our terms, for good wages, to misread these powers, to think that they are gods, that there is nothing after them, that no one can question it. We have this situation with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, in which they believe they are fully protected because they cannot be resolved because of their intricacies etc. There's already some other reasons there. That's the danger. This constant struggle for respect of rights and laws and the obstruction of the abuse of rights and violations of law is our reality. But let's be clear, the National Assembly cannot balance and allow the law to be won. Just to draw attention, a few speakers put the government in this story for the sake of this law. There's no government when it comes to this law. There's only DRI. Let's be aware of what they can do. Let's also be aware of these things that we hear from the finance minister, that for 130 billion dinars, there's no idea where it's going. We need a reform of the entire financial system, because it's obvious that this one, as it's working now, is not working well. Just to remind, this government acknowledges that Darko Saric washed 1,350,000 through the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, through real estate, through privatisation, etc. That sentence does not mean that the state is stronger than the mafia, but confirms that the mafia is in the structure of the state, that the mafia is run by some institutions. I warned you a year and a half ago about what the mob was up to. At the time, I was vividly explaining it to you with a story that I was about to throw a rock out of my shoe that is hurting me, but there's gonna be a big rock on the neck of some people who don't see or want to see what's going on with Serbia. Miss Marina Ragush read you the statistics, not to convince them. Not only those who are covered by this painful statistic, but everyone in this Serbia is crying out for truth and justice and respect for the law. So let's be really careful. This should be done, it should allow the State Auditing Institution to fulfill its function. We'll probably have to change that law in the future, make that institution as efficient as possible, but remember, about 9,000 budget beneficiaries fall under this law. Let there be forty, and seventy of those inspectors, or auditors, no matter where they call, by the end of this year, they can't finish this job. At the same time, there are parallel bodies: budget inspection, internal audit. I think it's simply impossible for a single dollar to be paid from the position of the budget, and that, previously within the ministry and within the Ministry of Finance, the service does not exercise previous control, so let it be an ordinary liquidation. If it is later found that there has been accidental use and illegal use of funds, then everyone in the series will respond, as participants in something that is still a criminal enterprise. Then be aware of what the authority of the minister, the secretary of state, or those who are setting up other persons to sign payment orders from an account. Don't play with the state, the state is a serious and expensive thing. When you go off carelessly with the government, then exactly the kind of data that Miss Marina Ragush was talking about is painful for all of us. Then the question is, what are we doing? What are the positive results of this National Assembly? Three hundred laws. What's three hundred laws worth if none of them apply? To break your concerns now, you know, no one in the EU is talking about Serbia joining the EU anymore. And the English, and the Germans and the French, from time to time, remind the Americans, to put in some kind of girdle, to talk about something. That story is over, remember. The story's over. Take care of the domino effect coming from Greece, via Spain, Portugal, Italy, ends with Germany. The foreign exchange reserves are eleven billion. Probably as of next week, the IMF is coming to tell the authorities in Serbia -- there are no more loans because there are no more EU funds, so you spend 11 billion foreign reserves. Remember, tycoons and mobsters have already been organized, who hold in their hands individual representatives of the government. A story will be created, such as that story of the Construction Act, to sell the facilities of someone who reinvested and four banks threatened and forced the state to owe a billion euros to him. Take care, no one will forgive us. Let's take care of this common man of ours. And do not be afraid of the Serbian Radical Party; when it comes to helping the people and the state, there we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-12-0.u40708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there are three other members of Parliament on the list, we will continue to work on this agenda tomorrow. Thank you. What are these MPs, and how much time is left? The MPs are Milorad Buha, Vladan Jeremic and Dejan Mirovic, and there are thirty-five minutes and a few seconds left for the three of you. Thank you for your cooperation today, for your participation in the debate, and at 10.00 tomorrow we will continue our work. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
