ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39152	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are currently more than one third of the MPs and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Parliament of People Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and Parliament MP Konstantin Arsenovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, Prime Minister of the National Assembly Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Svetozar Ciplic, invited the members to attend and Vladimir Cucic, Commissioner for Refugees Svetlana Velimirovic, Deputy Commissioner for Refugees, Daniela Popović-Roko, Assistant Commissioner for Refugees and Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Refugees (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs at the bill: Milorad Buha, Snezana Stojanović-Plašić, Marina Toman, Vjerica Rade, Dobrislav Prelic, Milan Škrbić, Aleksandar Martinović, Dušan Marić, joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazić, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitriović, Janko Veseinović and joint MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knez, Saša Ša Šamić, Žaljan Mišić, Presalja Milić, Predavić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Group of Members of Serbia, written on 7 April 2010, withdrew all amendments submitted to the bill, Articles 4, 5, 8 and 19. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 27, which obliges the chair to take care of the order, on the coordinated work of working bodies, I shall inform the MPs that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not held a session scheduled for 10.00 hours due to the lack of quorum at the sitting. The session of the Legislative Committee has been postponed, and today's search in particular will take place on the basis that we can conduct a discussion in particular and without the opinion of the committees responsible, however effective it is for work, that there is an opinion. As the president of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Meho Omerovic informed me that there were agreements on the acceptance of certain amendments submitted by the MPs, and that there was a need, that according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, there was an opportunity for the Committee to submit an amendment, and before the debates were opened in particular, to improve certain provisions of the law. The government has delivered an opinion to us, and Minister Svetozar Ciplic will carry out his job as a comment, on behalf of the government whose representative he is. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Refugees and proposed the following formulation in Article 1 of Article 1 of this Law – 'Serbs and citizens of other nationalities due to genocide and ethnic cleansing of the Serbian people from the former Yugoslav republics, since 1991 in 1998, escaped or exiled from the former Yugoslav republics in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and cannot or, because of fears of persecution or discrimination, do not want to return to the territory from which they have escaped, including those who have been identified for integration, is provided, in accordance with the provisions of this law, for the purpose of meeting their basic life needs and providing assistance in the integration process. What is the essence of this amendment? The point is that there is no notor fact in the Government's proposal and everything that is found in the acts relating to the countersuit of the Republic of Serbia before the International Court of Justice, which refers to the countersuit of Croatia which was brought to the International Court of Justice in 1999, which found responsibility for genocide on the Croatian people. The counter-attached "legal team" of the government of the Republic of Serbia has found that genocide and ethnic cleansing have been done. I will appeal to the press releases of information. I will also refer to certain statements of the 'legal team' that worked on this countersuit and I will refer to statements made by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, who in their statements made a notorious fact that a genocide and ethnic cleansing was made against Serbs in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. To begin with a statement by the President of the Republic (this is a statement we could see at RTS) from 30 December 2009, where he said: "After consulting the Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic during the day, it was decided that the competent institutions of the Serbian state should launch a countersuit against Croatia for genocide before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as well as a response to the suit of the Republic of Croatia. "I will also call for a statement by the Prime Minister, who also said in the media that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been challenged by the Croatian suit in the process of making a countersuit, and that, in a dispute with the Republic of Croatia for genocide against the Serb people that took place between 1991 and 1995. I will also appeal here to a statement by the President of the Commission for the Making of Countersuits, which he made in the media, saying about the lawsuit (it is a little longer statement, but I will only quote it in a few sentences) saying: "We ask that the court determine that the Republic of Croatia violated obligations under the Convention during and after Operation "Storm" in August 1995, committing to destroying ethnic Serbs living in the Krajina region of Croatia the following acts: killing members of that group, causing serious, physical and mental injuries of members of that group and deliberately subjecting them to such living conditions leading to their destruction, and missing and still failing to punish the perpetrators of the crimes of genocide against the Serb ethnic community that lived in the Krajina region. "It is further required that violations of international law be established and that responsibility be placed in the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia, that necessary measures be taken to prosecute the perpetrators, then, to establish all necessary measures, to ensure the safe and secure return of members of the Serb ethnic group from the Republic of Croatia and to ensure conditions for their peaceful and normal lives. All these are facts that say that genocide and ethnic cleansing, confirmed by the president of this country, the prime minister of the state, the state commission that worked to make a countersuit, has been done against Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. In the media, we were able to hear the counterclaims of numerous political factors, representatives of state institutions that indicated that a truly uncontested genocide was made. Unfortunately, the proposer of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act did not state incontestably the fact that genocide and ethnic cleansing were made against Serbs. This historic mistake by the promoter is not accidental, and it is not by chance the latest information on the agreements between the president of the Republic of Tadic and the president of Croatia, Josipovic, who is behind closed doors, hidden from the public, agreeing to withdraw the lawsuit. Just to point out that OUN, when it brought the Genocide Resolution, the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide, made it clear that genocide and the concealment of the facts of genocide, and in this case there was a genocidal intention to kill Serbs, to banish Serbs, to baptize Serbs. In this case, the president of this country has been unauthorized behind closed doors to negotiate the withdrawal of the lawsuit, thus hiding genocide. This state does nothing to remove the consequences of the genocide and activities of the Croatian state between 1991 and 1995, and there are clearly facts that the rights of refugees, which are internationally established, which exist under the provisions of international law, which have acquired rights, which cannot be denied both under national law and international law. Unfortunately, almost none of these seized rights have been returned by the Croatian state. Why does this country keep silent about the rights seized, both collective and individual? And in collective rights, it means, from the right to statehood and equality, which belongs to us, I have been talking about the Serbian people since 1471, when the first right to self-government was established, to an independent judiciary, in a period of Hungarian power, then, in a period of forming a military province. And after the Austrian emperors in 1630, in 1690 they gave the Serbs the right to self-government, the right to self-determination. We had the right to equality in all Croatian constitutions. Unfortunately, the Ustasha government in 1990 took away our right to constitutionality, to equality, we lost our right to citizenship, which is a unique example in the history of the world, to take away a nation's right to citizenship. All Serbs who had to leave the Republic of Croatia due to genocide and ethnic cleansing had to re-apply for citizenship, and today nearly half of Serbs do not have Croatian citizenship, although they originate in the area, they originate from ethnically pure Serbian territories. It is a direct violation of the provisions of international law. In addition, we have lost the right to use language and letters equally, the right to freely confess our faith, etc. There are data from the Serbian Orthodox Church from 2006, when the bishop of Zagreb-Ljubljanski reported that between 1990 and 2006, some 30,000 Serbs were baptized, now the number is far higher. Baptism is also a genocide, because there is a genocide intention. Unfortunately, international forces do nothing to prevent baptism, to help us return freely and safely to our hearths, so that we can enjoy our property. In addition to these rights, we must point out many other rights, from the right to free division of actions, which, unfortunately, we did not get here or in Croatia. The only Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia did not receive a single dinar of former social property, and according to the provisions of the federal law of 1990 and 1991, this right belongs to us. We're damaged in retirement. Serbs from Republika Srpska did not receive pensions from 1991 to 1998. Unfortunately, and today, we have Serbs waiting on the PIO counters to get and achieve their long acquired right, legally retired, etc. They're huge rights. But let's get back to genocide and ethnic cleansing. It is surprising that the government is retiring from an official stance, that is, the proposer of this law reternises from the official position of state authorities. If the President of the Republic pointed out that a genocide was committed against the Serbs, if the Prime Minister did so, if it was done by the state team that made up the countersuit, who has the right, who has the power to erase genocide actions against the Serb people? There is no such thing in this law. In the explanation I received, because I asked for an amendment to include the terms "genocide" and "ethnic cleansing", the following answer was given: "The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the definition is provided for in Article 1. The bill, and in accordance with the 1951 Convention on Refugee Status, is adapted to the current situation in which the refugees are present. In this way, the situation of refugees is better defined and allows a decision on how to resolve the refugee problem permanently to be truly voluntary and feasible. Also, the definition provided for in Article 1. The bill allows far greater resolution of the remaining refugee problems from the former SFRJ republics. '"This is a cataract interpretation given by the government. I don't even know what it came from. Why the hypocrisy in the case of refugees? This is a hypocritical response, because in one place we say that genocide was committed, and on the other hand we say that there was no genocide. This explanation shows and calls for the 1951 Convention on Refugee Status. He says it was done in accordance with the Convention on Refugee Status. The Convention on the Status of Refugees, which was adopted in 1951 and adopted in 1951 by the majority of the countries, clearly includes the obligation of the recipient state, as well as the countries where the persons avoided the refugee status being brought to an end, to return refugees to the state. If the refugee's voluntary statement does not want to return to the country from where he was expelled, in this case it is about persecution, it can be integrated in the country where it is located, if accepted. However, refugees want to return and physically in large numbers, but they primarily want their property and their rights. That's what the refugee status convention says. Unfortunately, there is no physical, safe, free return of Serbs to Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. Only 5% to 8% of Serbs returned. Between 40,000 and 50,000 Serbs physically returned, mostly nursing households. Young people don't go back there. Why? For discrimination, for persecution, for numerous incidents that occurred during the return period, bombings, burning houses, burning crops, etc. The physical return of Serbs to the Republic of Croatia is not possible. That's why Serbs don't go back there. It is surprising why world standards, European standards, are currently out of the question? Why don't they take it? Why aren't they implemented? Why aren't they being carried out? If the pension is acquired right, it belongs to anyone who's won, including the biggest criminal who's ever been jailed and sustained the most severe punishment. That right cannot be denied. Why have Serbs been denied this right? I've said dozens of times in this House that it's not about small law, it's the right shown in billions of euros. Republika Srpska's pensioners' association in Belgrade says it is about 18 billion. Also, the Association of Pensioners in Vukovar says it is about 17 billion euros in base, plus tight interest, what belongs to court practice in such cases. Are those small funds? Why doesn't this state help to make those funds come true in any form, if that's the right, if that's the world standard? In no official act of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia I saw the next thing - the right to action, to free division of actions. I must warn the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia that there are clearly regulated acts on the rights of citizens of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia located in the Republic of Serbia, which are two federal laws from 1990 and 1991, which allow us to do so. Nor could Serbs do so in the Republic of Croatia, and amendments to the Law in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 have not been recognised by refugees. Today, there are about 150,000 refugees in Serbia who have failed to do so. Why are they being discriminated against? Minister, it's your right. I have spoken to you on several occasions, asked and requested on behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska in exile, to consider this right. You're responding to me with a bunch of legal standards, and you haven't pointed out a single moment, you haven't hit the right norm that allows us to do so. You have to deal with it, there are about 150,000 families who have been denied that right. It's not a small number. That's millions of dollars. Today, one family can expect three, four or two thousand euros from a free share of action or a certain right to action, in that division of social property, that right belongs to us. The Serbs achieved it through direct work and their participation in social, economic life in the Republic of Croatia, that Socialist Republic of Croatia. That's the right thing to do. You're here as a minister now, that's why I'm telling you. That's what you have to run, that question has to be run. If that right went down, for several million Serbs in Serbia, Macedonia, Slovenia, Croatia, in BiH, why is that right denied to Serbs? This is where the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior is present. I must once again warn of the enormous problems of the Serbs of Krajisnik who are now in refugee status, and even of those when Serbs have Serbian citizenship and do not have a ID card or even those who have a ID card. When the personal status changes, you ask Serbs to go to the Republic of Croatia, spend huge resources on the road, pay huge taxes on the state documents of the Republic of Croatia, obtaining certain rights from social security, certain labour-legal rights, certain other rights, and even when obtaining personal documents and travel documents, etc., provisions of the same international Convention on Refugee Status clearly state that the existing document must be recognised. The State Authority, i.e. the MUP, has an orderly record of each refugee, since the same authority has issued refugee identification or ID, a map, or a travel document to the refugees. In the database of the MUP are all the necessary data for each other document and based on the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, these are the provisions of Articles 161 and 162, you have an obligation to issue a document, not to force a person to go to Croatia. On one case alone, I will try to explain the costs to the citizens, and how much to this country. In the last ten years, Serbs have had to go to Croatia and for the assurance of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and for a copy of the Mother's Book of Born, and for copies from the Mother's Book of Married and for copies from numerous other books of origin. And, out of 300,000, 350,000 refugees who went to the Republic of Croatia, let's say, every year only 100,000 went, their travel expenses, their waste of time, because it takes them one or two days to go there and return, in addition, they have to pay an administrative fee in Croatia, which is not small, which runs from 2,000 and above, all of which, when it's overcautious, is, for some, 150 to 200 euros for every individual who goes there. Not to talk about wasting time, about fear of being arrested, of being arrested, of being detained, of being heard etc. and many other unpleasant situations that Serbs had when crossing the state border and entering the Republic of Croatia. When we multiply these 100,000 by 150 to 200 we get to 15 to 20m euros. So, 15 or 20 million euros, you know it's a fortune for this country, and we give it away. We have instruments, we have legal powers and based on the Convention on Refugee Status, the International Convention, which tells us that the old document is a valid document for the state body, in this case, the Republic of Serbia, the MUP. I pointed to the interior minister, pointing to the secretary of state, but there is no reaction. And day and day use that. We have the General Administrative Procedure Act. 161 and 162 in those records and databases that exist in the MUP, it's your legal obligation, not to send people out there to waste time, lose money, and we're all losing a lot together. You don't apply that provision. In addition, a child born in Republika Srpska between 1991 and 1995 is a non-existent child. It must be re-proved in front of both state authorities and other state authorities to prove that it was born from both father and mother, that it was born then and then. Why? Because neither the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia nor the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia recognise the state acts of the Republika Srpska. So, you don't accept something that's not. I'd end up with this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39154	Since the time of the authorised representative, it has been used from 15 minutes, and seven minutes and 30 seconds since the time of the SRS Parliamentary Group. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39155	Thank you, President-in-Office, honourable ministers, respected gentlemen of the Committee for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, around some of the findings I might agree with my colleague, Buh, when it comes to the fact that Serbs are exiled, expelled from the Republic of Croatia, that they were not given adequate conditions to return there, and that seems to me to no one here in the hall is disputed. Today, however, we are discussing amendments and additions to the Refugees Act and is not subject to amendments and additions to the Refugees Act to declare the facts that were made during Operation Flash, Storm, etc. I have an objection to Mr. Buha's discussion. The second observation is the conclusion that, in some ways, it shows a negative view of the ongoing talks held by officials of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, namely President Tadic and President Josipovic, talks behind closed doors. I'm not quite sure what that means to you. Here, we're in the O.R. right now, all the doors are closed, we're talking, and yet there's no secrets. I think these talks are quite transparent and should contribute to improving the situation, first of all, of Serbs in Croatia through the creation of better conditions for return and, as you say, with which I absolutely agree, access to rights. Therefore, the return of property, houses, countries, restoration and property, access to other rights, such as pension rights, actions, etc. These rights are not at all controversial, that they are in some way still, to the greatest extent, inaccessible, to the good work, to the people who live in Serbia. However, some of these questions are not the subject of these changes and additions. It is also the obligation of Serbia, above all, to through the international community, international institutions, through bilateral talks with key, European and world powers, significant countries that can help solve these issues, also to discuss the situation of Serbs in Croatia. I would like to remind you that a recent Declaration was brought to the European Council on the position of Serbs in Croatia, which was also the contribution of representatives of this parliament, where your party's representatives participated. You will probably agree with me that this government and the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, are making serious efforts to point out the problem of Serbs in Croatia, and this government and institutions such as the Refugees' Commissioner are making serious efforts to help people who are currently in Serbia, who cannot or are not afraid to return to the places where they used to live. Over the past two years, which through the refugee commissioner's programmes, which through the Regional Refugee Fund programmes, is concerned about about 12 and a half thousand people, which is not a small figure in these circumstances. And this law should answer some questions in the coming period, how it should solve these problems and how it should help people who want to return to the places where they escaped, as well as those who want to integrate in Serbia. I will remind you of some of the provisions that this law makes, to do so, to improve the situation and position of the evasive Serbs living in the Republic of Serbia, who cannot return to the places of former residence. First of all, this law creates a normative condition for these issues to be properly settled. We know that in 1992, the Refugees Act was passed, that it was well overcome and that it became a brake in resolving numerous issues that refugees in Serbia have. The law should also be treated equally by persons who have acquired citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in the meantime and refugees who are still in refugee status. Persons who have acquired citizenship of the Republic of Serbia have practically not acquired any other special rights, and their socio-economic status has not changed. We'll agree that this is a good approach to the promoter, that these faces are treated the same way. These are the provisions of this law. This law provides the possibility of helping people who return to their previous residences. The existing law did not provide such opportunities. In some ways, only persons who wanted to integrate were assisted by limited resources, not taking care of the persons returning to the place of the previous stay. On the other hand, this law provides good conditions that the existing 70 collective centres, which still exist, are closed in the next period, not by keeping people on the street but by getting help from the state, will get a roof over their heads, or will provide them with the possibility of resolving their housing issues through building housing units, through assistance in building material. What is particularly important is that, through the possibility that existing housing units, which have been built, are not emigrated because of the shortcomings that the existing law has to move in, and that only in this way, over 150 families are taken care of, because there are so many residents, who are either illegally moved or who are not even inhabited. The other thing is, i.e. some provisions, I mentioned, which are important in this law and which give the possibility to refugees to solve their problems more quickly, therefore. Another thing is that the country of Serbia in the coming period and all the authorities are making it possible to improve the situation of the Serb refugees, who are returning to their previous residences and to make the return sustainable, on the other hand, that they can access their rights. In this sense, I believe that co-operation would also in some way be a good help to all the political parties sitting in this parliament – to do more on this plan and to highlight in all places the problem of the return Serbs, in general, living in the region of about two million Serbs, i.e. that the position is highlighted and that it is looking for the possibility of repairing the situation. No, in some things, when we talk about concrete programs, we do some things that really have nothing to do with it, or I can't even get them involved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39156	Eight minutes and 30 seconds were used from the parliamentary group. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Buha, and time is available for 59 minutes and 40 seconds of time by the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39157	Replica, since I was mentioned and misread, etc. - I'm entitled to a replica. (No) Then I won't waste any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39158	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39159	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 3 speaks about the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the unit of local self-government in the obligation, i.e. to provide care and assistance in the integration and return of refugees. The 2nd position says that direct assistance to refugees can be provided: Red Cross organisation, other humanitarian, religious and other organisations, associations and citizens. The position of the SRS is – that it is pointless for us by law to oblige citizens or at all to state that citizens can provide direct assistance to refugees, because the law cannot oblige anyone to do or not. Unfortunately, it is the fact that the greatest aid to refugees in this previous period was actually given to citizens – not because the law obliged them to do so, but because they personally had a feeling of compassion with people who had to leave their hearths. That's what Mr. Buha was talking about. It is good that Serbian citizens heard what he said about refugee problems. My colleagues, who will vote for this law, unfortunately, have not shown much interest in hearing it. As Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina, Buh's colleague is also in exile and that data and contacts with people who have been refugees or have been in that status have not changed in the meantime. We also heard a remark earlier that the subject of this law was not what a colleague of the Buha or what Serbian radicals were saying, and we talked about it in principle. I must tell you - all that is related to refugees is the subject of this law and a unique opportunity for certain appeals and resolutional ministries and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be directed from this place, of course, and the President of the State, who, by the Constitution, represents the country, among other things. But given the fact that he is meeting too often with the president of the Croatian state these days, we must comment on that. A colleague who made a complaint to us and spoke to him himself after what we resented the president of Serbia. He expressed it as a commendation for the president of Serbia and it is the legitimate right of a fellow who is part of the ruling coalition, but therefore should allow us to put in, to make our remarks. It is true that these meetings of the president of Croatia and the president of Serbia, at least according to what the media is reporting, are more like some party meetings in some excursion and tourist destinations. What we find out in the media, and that's why we say it's more of a secret or semi-secret conversation, because we don't have, in the media, a colleague, information that they talked about, what you just said here. Maybe you have more information. It would be good if the public of Serbia had received the information from the president of Serbia's cabinet after each meeting with the president of Croatia. It does not seem to us that the subject of their conversation was the status of refugees or of allowing refugees to return to the territory of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. We haven't even heard that they talked about trying to form a Croatian Orthodox church, which is the continuation of its kind of ecumenism in the territory of the Croatian state, but we have heard that they have discussed the establishment, or the definition of the border between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, which tells us that these meetings are actually happening because of the interest of Croatia and that they want to solve some of their problems which are their preconditions for joining the EU. And that is why we rightly ask the competent state authorities when they meet with representatives of the Croatian government, in whatever form, that they are obliged to discuss refugees, their return to their hearths, their return to their property. What you are predicting by this law that they will be able to acquire property in Serbia under certain conditions, you are putting them in about the same situation they had in Croatia. You know how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia now do not have the opportunity to exercise their right to live in Croatia so that they can buy the apartment. You here today, too, are offering some apartments that they cannot buy and the question is – who will achieve it and how many people will ever exercise that right that you are promoting in this bill. When we spoke in principle about the proposal for this law, many citizens who have refugee status appeared in the SRS, recognized that we are the only political party in this parliament who know their problems and who know how problems should be solved, and who in this direction we appeal to the authorities in Serbia to do so. One of the characteristic letters in which we seem to have contained all the current problems of these people talking about the fear of a person with refugee status due to the change of this law. They say since they came, since they were in that status in Serbia, every law or any amendments to the law, every activity of the competent authorities has been called upon to redefine their refugee status, which, perhaps you don't know about these problems, ministers, is a big problem for these people. Otherwise, the status that was last established should be valid until mid-2011 and these people are asking you not to move that deadline, regardless of the adoption of this law. What kind of problem do all these citizens have when they need to, when the state invites them to re-establish, or extend or lift refugee status? They have a problem with the state's lack of understanding for their real status, their real state. Most of these people, or almost all of them, have no settled housing issues, live as tenants. You ask them every time they want to extend refugee status to bring a contract with whoever they live in. Unfortunately, in the state of Serbia, the status of tenants and those who betray apartments is not the subject of this law and should not be, but it is a problem that is evident in Serbia and whenever someone needs confirmation that it is difficult for a tenant to get it because people have their reasons. I don't want this opportunity to call these people, because that's the problem of the state, not those people who don't want to report tenants. Then, these people who need to extend refugee status can't get confirmation from their landlord that they really live with him as tenants, and then that's the problem that makes it impossible for them to extend refugee status, and then there's a lot of problems. These problems are obvious, there are. There are a number of people living in Serbia who have no status at all. You took away their refugee status, and you don't give them IDs, they get citizenship somehow, but when it comes to ID cards, they can't get ID because they don't have an apartment, because they don't have a house, they don't have a settled housing issue. And these people are neither in heaven nor on earth. On the one hand, you do not allow them to extend refugee status because they have no proof that they are tenants, and on the other hand, cannot be equal citizens with a ID card, which can be identified in some place in Serbia where they live because they do not have an apartment. So it's one of the problems that you have to solve, because the state authorities act like they don't talk to each other, like they don't know how they solve the problem and how others solve the problem, and the problem still exists. What comes further from this problem? It's a health care problem. These people you take away refugee status and don't allow them, don't let them get their ID card and become equal citizens in Serbia, they have a problem because they can't get a health book and have a huge problem. These are people, either with a 50-euro pension or without any income, without any pension, mostly older people, and you should have a little more compassion and a little more adjustment of the legislation to really solve these people's problems. They say, if someone gets into Serbian citizenship, what I said, you don't give him a ID or passport because he doesn't have his own apartment. People who receive pensions in Croatia say you do not give a health book in Serbia unless they pay 2,000 dinars per month, and they have to pay, most often, of their miserable pensions, to support their adult children, because it is a big problem of unemployment in Serbia, and when it comes to refugees and when it comes to people born in Serbia, and a problem that this government obviously does not care about or at least doesn't care enough. Of course, the problem these people are writing to us about and what is the problem that we know about, but I simply needed it because of all these people who talked to us to pass it on to you and to tell them that we're willing to help them as much as we can as we can, but unfortunately, you who are the authorities aren't ready to do it. When it comes to citizenship, although there is dual citizenship, you do not give it to these citizens. You are asking them to give up their citizenship in Croatia, and they are thus losing the opportunity to eventually realise some of their property rights, and there are still a huge number of those people who haven't solved the issue of their property and then it's a really big problem for them. That's why we think you should have accepted this amendment, too, because all these problems that people with refugee status can't solve, as you say here, citizens, and problems must be solved by the state systemically, organised and well-meaningly. That is why we call on you ministers to accept this amendment and to, of course, within the framework of your portfolio of ministers who were before you in charge of presenting this law in parliament, to do everything you can, and you can do much. You're the government, you're the state authorities, and you can see that you don't treat people with refugee status as second-class people, because they're not, they don't deserve it. They did not leave their hearths and come to Serbia with their own will, but came because by the genocide policy of the Ustasha Croatian authorities they were expelled from their hearths. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39160	From the time of the parliamentary group, 13 minutes and 20 seconds have been used. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39161	Dear Members of Parliament and honourable MPs, honourable Radet MPs, in fact, and I think that this proposal of Article 3 provides to a much greater extent the breadth of ageing and dealing with refugees, given that besides all others and citizens, it seems to me that in your argument and practice it has been shown, that often individuals have helped refugees there when the state, state or association could not help. Because of such practice, it seems to me that it would be wrong for individuals to exclude the citizens from this circle of entities that can help refugees, especially because they are said to be able to provide direct assistance to refugees, so when they feel the need, when they are able, when they have the opportunity to help their citizens. From here I think this is a solution that has been proposed in the amendments and additions of the law better. In the end, what I'm going to make public, and that's because you and I and all the lawyers know that to get a ID card, we don't need to have our own apartment, that if there are such cases, which are certainly against the law, we're going to investigate it. It's just that I think only more than a quarter of the citizens might have a personal card that has their own apartment. Never owned an apartment, not according to current laws, not according to the previous one, was it a condition to get a ID card. The condition for a personal ticket is to have a residence or residence, besides all those, primarily citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39162	The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. The time available for the parliamentary group is 46.10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39163	Very short. I'm sorry you won't allow us time for replicas past our time, but I really won't be using much time. Mr. Minister, we cannot accept what you said, that you are in law paying attention to citizens to help or not to help refugees, nor can you have a record of it, nor will anyone come to you. If I helped and helped my narrow and wider family who was, and some still are, in refugee status, what do you care? It's not my idea to come to you and brag about it and that you get some points, that someone has solved their question because I or someone else has helped him. So that's unacceptable. As far as this problem is concerned, and what you have publicly committed to make sure you find out how it is possible, of course, against the law, that someone is conditioned to issue a ID card by having property, or a settled housing issue, believe me, there are many such cases. I have reported the most because of this because people with refugee status are monitoring the work of this parliament, because they worry whether this law will make their position worse, too, I call on all of them to turn to Mr. Ciplic when seeking a personal map or extending refugee status, when they have a problem they have so far. It's really nice of you to publicly accept that you're going to help them in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39164	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The remaining time is 44.10 minutes. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39165	Since Mrs Radeta said that refugees are probably following what we are doing here and they are certainly interested in this topic, so that there is no confusion, a clean misinformation has been given – that it is required of refugees, when they want to get citizenship from the Republic of Serbia, to give up citizenship for some of the countries they come from. All 200,000 refugees who received citizenship after 2,000 know that it is not true and that most of them have both the citizenship of BiH and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. There were people who gave up citizenship, but the state of Serbia, as you know, recognises dual citizenship. It's simply not true, that people who watch this transmission wouldn't get into a situation if they thought the law had been amended in the meantime. That's just not true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39166	A minute and 10 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. The right to the replica is the decision of the chairman and there is no reason for replication. It's explained what's being expressed as true, as incorrect. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39167	With this amendment, the SRS only wanted to draw attention to the Commissioner for Refugees, to make it a recognizable administrative organisation after the amendments and amendments to this law and to some new laws, the status of the Commissioner. The amendment covers that in paragraph 4, which is that the competent authorities of the Autonomous Province, the units of local self-government, when determining the trustee in charge of these jobs do so with the attached opinion of the Commissioner. We have asked for that opinion to be cast out, and in some of the following amendments there will be a little more stories about this Commissioner, given that there are also very negative interpretations, opinions and information about what activities they are taking, not in this conference, but from the beginning when it comes to the commissioner, because there is a people's saying "where and the Kajamaks, there is also an appointment for the kamak". Since it's raining, and it's causing a little depression, melancholy, it needs some little gas to be given, because the topic we're working on today deserves attention, and it needs to be spoken out loud, to spell. Those who like it in new terms to understand, that's what "gas, gas" is! I need you to turn it off. Here, now I'm gonna change that rhythm. Mr. Chiplicu, Serbia is the first in Europe in the number of refugees. I think we're in thirteenth place in the world, according to some data, but it keeps changing. When the problem of refugee is solved, and the purpose of this law and the purpose of this law is that, then two methods are used. The first method is to get the refugee back to his doorstep and, second method is, if he can't come back, to do his own drowning, fitting in the new environment. Both methods are funded by international organisations, refugee commissioners, etc. And the UN has a special fund for these things. Mr. Ciplic, the largest number of persons who have refugee status, gained that status in 1991, 1992, 1995, in those two, according to those in Croatia, their liberating actions, which was persecution, "Storm" and "Blash". If we look at how the number of refugees registered in the Republic of Serbia, verified by the High Commissioner for Refugees, was about 600,000 in one period, according to the latest data, as regards Croatia, above all, there are more than 100,000 refugees, informal data say there are around 300,000. If we take into the same Corps to put these people who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, that's 200 and some thousands and then we're in an infamous first place in Europe. Last time I taught you – read the stenographic notes from the National Assembly session held on 1st and 2nd April 1992. At that time, a single Serbian radical in the National Assembly was Vojislav Seselj and 249 MPs attacked him. Why? Because he objected to the first text of the Refugees Act, because under the law, refugees in Serbia could not buy real estate and be employed. Everyone criticized him. It is good that after 17 - 18 years you have revised your opinion of refugee status. What the public needs to understand, I don't want to deal with technical issues, I don't argue that these issues that Mrs. Radeta was talking about, as well as Milorad Buha earlier, but I'm going back to the essential issue. I have to show you a little graphic, because I'm counting on it to get in better, to figure it out. This is place A, this is place B. Between those two places there's Drina. If from place A comes to place B 600,000 people who have been expelled just because they are members of Serbian nationality, then the authorities in A have committed crimes against humanity, called forced transfer, can later be called deportation. It's in the jurisdiction of our prosecution, our court and this quasi-jud in The Hague. If after 17 years in B, there are still people with refugee status, they are victims of forced transfer and deportation. Who's responsible? Why isn't the one being chased for the works in City A? This is a central issue today, not this act of humanity of yours, so you said in an explanation – the European Union is asking to change the Refugees Act, because it is also on an agenda to join the European Union as soon as possible. And then your President Tadic says -- by integration into the European Union we are also solving the refugee issue. What these two presidents were saying in Opatija, a few months ago, wasn't Opatija, it was "Apathia." What were they talking about? Franjo Tudjman ended up with his policy, ranging from 12% to 14% of Serbs in Croatia as a constituent people reduced to less than 2%. Who knows how much of that is? Where's their property? Where's the return? Fifty-seven thousand people have problems dealing with the housing issue. Household law is not recognised. Neither does the European Court of Human Rights, nor does the European Commission help, nor does the European Union! Whoever wants a refugee visa to go to Australia, Canada, America, if it's from that part there in China, all the states give him asylum and all that is necessary. It's a central question that interests us, not your humanity. Kobajagi humanity. Well, here's how human you were in 1992 when the law was passed. The session was concluded by the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Bakocevic, fenced from a statement by Vojislav Seselj. And what, we're guilty in 1992, Serbian radicals, and in 2010, we're guilty because we have the same political attitude and the same legal attitude on a particular issue? You were right and in 1992, you were right in 2010, when you changed your mind. That's what the public needs to know. Enough of that manipulation. That's the central question. Return, first of all, to return, first of all, their rights there to protect themselves. And it's a good thing this law defends the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, because what I said cannot challenge anything. That's all the naked facts. Who was responsible for forced transfer, deportation and persecution?- I'm sorry. Nobody! You see how the case goes to Gotovina and these others. There is none of this process, but, when it comes to the accused Serb, anything can. The problem is also in books, the problem is the disclosure of information, it's all problems. Why? Because it's a Serb. Take care when you talk, because I know a lot of facts. For every fact, I've got to get your paper out. We've had enough of your fake humanity. Now you're going to take care of the refugees. Why didn't you worry about 1991, 1992? In 1992, you were bothered by the idea that a refugee could be employed in Serbia, that he could acquire property in Serbia, although they were still of the same citizenship, Yugoslav. Read the stenograms, last time I gave you a very cultural warning, read the stenogram and the session on April 1st and 2nd 1992, so qualify for a conversation, and not that, now, what we'll media, what the media under the control of this tycoon, that mobster will publish, this won't publish, this will be published, it'll be affirmative, you'll get 2%. What 2% will you get? Why don't you talk about how refugees were cheated in Pancheva. Donations, apartments made. Now they're going to a social housing facility. Where's your humanity? How do you change your humanity from location to location, from escape to age in some local environment? Of course there is a great mistrust with the Commissioner for Refugees, of course, that it does not exist, it rightly exists. That's it, Mrs. Comic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39168	Ten minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39169	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7, on which I submitted the amendment, talks about the temporary accommodation of refugees in Serbia. I suggested that after the sentence, "temporary accommodation is determined by the Commissioner" the wording is added: "Respecting, to the greatest extent possible, the best interests of refugees who are housed or will be placed in collective accommodation." It is a matter of detailing this provision, which, according to the SRS, will allow for better protection of refugees. It is good, so the government has heard and respected the opinion of the SRS that this amendment improves the legal solution and accepts the amendment. I will take this opportunity to say more about the Serbs who have been expelled from KIM. You'll see why. On July 18, 1998, Cypriot terrorists raided the Serbian village of Retimlje near Orahovac and kidnapped the entire population. Men were killed, and women and children were expelled. 14 members of the Kostic family were killed. Seven of them were single young men. Nebojsa Kostic was a high school student in Djakovica. Two sons and five grandchildren, Nikola Kostic, were killed that day. Five Kostics were killed by two sons, and two unfortunate men were killed along with their sons. The Cypriots robbed and burned all the houses, and they set up an ultimatum for the survivors of civilians, women and children – if you do not leave Kosovo, you will be killed. In the same day, in Omonaša near Retimlj, the Shipari also committed the same crime and among other things killed four Bozanic, brothers Bozidar and Mladen and their sons Novinica and Nemanja. Nemania was a high school, also in Djakovica, 16 years old. The houses are also set on fire, women and children banished across what they say is the KIM border. The same fate struck the honorable Albanian family Berisha from the Puss at Klina. Their sons, Adam and Berisha, died defending the constitutional order and the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the Cypriot terrorists destroyed their property, expelled all survivors, and leveled the cemetery with the ground. A similar fate was experienced by thousands of Serbian and several hundred Shipatarian families at KIM, a total of about 250,000 people. It's the most difficult form of persecution, the harder it doesn't exist. If you come to a village, kill men, destroy property, banish women and children, it's the most difficult form of persecution. However, for the state of Serbia and the law, Kostici, Bozanici and Berisha were not exiled, they were internally displaced. I think it's the biggest flaw, the falsification of this bill. It is an inadequate, offensive term, which banalises, reduces the tragedy that has hit these people, conceals their real status and their real destiny, which is even more dangerous, concealing the various crimes that Cypriot terrorists have committed over the Serb population at KIM. When someone in 20 and 50 years is talking about internally displaced in Serbia or when someone now in the white world and abroad, who doesn't know what happened at KIM, hears about the expression internally displaced in Serbia, he will think that it's some population that's displaced, say, because of the spread of the Colubar coal mine, because of the construction of hydrothermia in the Danube valley or the Drina Valley, or that it's the Roma that are displaced under the "Gazale" and other parts of Belgrade. When you compare the Serbs with the kiM to these displaced faces, I think that this is how you insult them, their dignity, some of the most intimate family feelings. If, for political reasons, it's unfortunate to use the term "refugees", I don't understand why no legal category is introduced, that these people are called "internally exiled persons", "internally expelled persons", "internal refugees"? I simply think it's a formula that in a more precise way, a human, a more true way, is depicting and representing the fate of these people. I will take this opportunity to ask Mr. Chiplic a question – when will the government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministry, UNMIK, Eulex, or what are these occupation authorities in Kosovo called, send at least one mild rebuke for failing to meet the obligations they have made by adopting Resolution 1244, which is to ensure the conditions for the exiled Serbs with KIM to return to their homes? I'll only list two information that 40 lived before the war in Pristina. Thousands of Serbs, that they were expelled, that a dozen returned to Pristina. In Prizren of 10. Thousands of Serbs now live 20. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39170	Since the time of the parliamentary group, time has been spent for four minutes. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39171	Thank you. Dear MP, just finding that your amendment has been accepted in this case, and on the other hand, it seems to me very important to mention, and therefore thank you for that, that as regards the state of human rights in KIM, November and December 2008, when we submitted as a state delegation of the Republic of Serbia a Human Rights Report on the state of human rights in connection with the International Convention for Combating and Combating Tortrum, we concluded that in the territory of KIM, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, were not responsible and could not come up with data on this. We've drawn attention to the UN authorities in Geneva that this problem exists. In December 2008, we reiterated the fact and protested the general known fact that the KIM authorities designated under Resolution 1244 did not show themselves sufficiently effective, i.e. that the institutions guaranteed under this resolution, which can effectively protect the freedoms and rights of non-Albanian population in KIM, were not built. These were not only written but also oral actions, verbal actions done in front of UN authorities in Geneva. Last year, three times on adequate occasions, and this ministry, above all, has sent UN letters and warnings to the Ministry of Human and Minority, as well as to the ministry of justice, on similar cases. The state of human rights of the non-Albanian population in KIM territory is subject to special attention from the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and to the extent possible, politically, but also legally, when possible, we respond and point to the extremely difficult situation as it is there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39172	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) National MP Dusan Maric. It's 30 minutes and 10 seconds away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39173	I'll use 30 seconds. Mr. Chiplic, I agree that the state of Serbia has found the existence of this problem, but I am getting the impression and I think the facts are in favour of this impression, that it all mainly ends up finding the existence of this problem. I don't think that's enough, and I think the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state must insist more aggressively on international factors to create conditions for the return of Serbs to KIM. Not from one session to the next of the UN Security Council, from one session to the second session of the UN General Assembly, but literally, every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39174	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, MP Snježana Stojanovic-Plasic and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39175	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to this article, and I would like to ask you, if you could just read the amendments that have been accepted, which are not, because it wasn't very clear to me until I got the materials. I have information that this amendment I have proposed has not been accepted, but I would like to comment on it. Since it's about amending the law, let me explain. The old Refugees Act stipulates that the Commissioner, i.e. the Commissioner, submits a financial report, i.e. a report on the spending of funds on a regular basis, to the government of six months. We now have an amendment proposed by the amendment to the Law that says that only at the request of the Government is the commissioner to submit this report on the spending of funds. My intervention was to delete Article 9 and remain an old solution, i.e. to remain the solution by which the commissioner regularly submits a six - month report to the Government on spending. I don't see who's in the interest of having a report on the spending of funds on the table. I think it certainly is in the interest, above all, of the Commissioner himself, and also in the interest of the Government, to know how the funds are spent, but also perhaps, above all, in the interest of those who are directly intended. I don't mean to say that there can be some abuse of funds, but I think that we have witnessed that it has happened in the past period and that all the funds that have been allocated to refugees over the past 18 years have not always ended up in the right way and have not come to the right users in full scope. I therefore believe that there is no reason not to remain an old solution, and I ask the competent ministry and the government to reconsider, to accept this amendment, because I believe that this is really necessary in order to report to both the Government and the public on how the funds are being spent. It's in the spirit of democratic movements in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39176	Twenty seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, certainly that the explanation just presented by counterpart Plassic is absolutely in place, because we do not know what it is that led the government to say in this proposal that the Commissioner is obliged to submit a report on the spending of funds for refugee care at the government's request. It is particularly interesting to mention what funds they are. This is what the member says before this – funds of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government, contributions, gifts and other forms of voluntary assistance, other means laid down by law and other regulations. In addition to this proposal for a law on Article 9 of the basic law, you say – to collect money as voluntary assistance to provide refugees and create conditions for their return, i.e. integration, the Commissioner opens a special account. It is truly amazing why both this account and the distribution of these funds would be in a certain way a secret. If you say that the government will only be reported at the government's request, it can be sometimes, and it can never be. It'll probably never be, or it'll never be, unless you accept this amendment. Anyone in the status of a refugee or formerly in that statute tried to obtain some material resources from the state authorities or authorities of local self-government, the Commissioner, etc. He knows what obstacles he's been facing. First of all, that aid has long been abolished, and that should be known. It's been a long It was never in the right sense to say the help these evasive faces could at least survive without saying that they lived politely. It was food aid, in some hygiene packages. It's horrible to remember what happened back then. Thank God, many of these people, meanwhile, managed to sort out their status, primarily the matter of their material position. But still a large number of people, mostly old, sick, people who aren't able to work, are also in these refugee centres in terrible conditions and years, but for decades, you can say, living that way. And what you've led to is that the funds that are collected to help refugees are provided in the budgets, well, you yourself know that it's so little in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, especially in local self-government, it's so small that it's really insignificant. The funds you're trying to raise are mostly some donations from foreign governments or possibly some NGOs. They are not spent fairly or evenly and this is more reason to accept this amendment and that there is an obligation to report to the Government, and that as such, of course, they are subject to the control of the State Auditor, etc. It is a great sin that these people are being abused and that funds are being used in the name of refugees who are pouring into whatever account they are not using in a fair way, not to be used on the basis of certain predetermined criteria. We all know, unfortunately, it's a public secret, people who tried to solve a housing problem to build a building in a municipality with a donation, with some, I don't know, 10, 15 apartments. No real criteria, unfortunately, were applied to the distribution of these apartments, but certain leaders at the level of local self-government sought bribes to get an apartment, asking for 10,000 euros each to give a refugee, a five-member family, to a garage. So there's a lot of abuse of that kind of human status, a lot of abuse with resources that eventually get together to help these people materially. Material aid, I said, long time ago, except some apartments are made here and there. The question is whether one percent is divided on the basis of, indeed, the predetermined criteria and on the basis of the real needs of these people. Believe me, Minister, I'm telling you this, I could list you as many examples as you want, because we have absolutely accurate data on all of this. That is why it would be good for as much protection as possible to keep the little funds coming in to help the refugees, to protect them by accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39178	Four minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) By adding a new member, Parliamentarian Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 10a be added after article 10a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39179	The purpose of this amendment is to carry out by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia a comprehensive record of the movable and immovable property lost by Serbs, that is, taken from them in the Republic of Croatia. Every refugee who was here in a certain status and legal sense in front of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 1990 to the day today made certain statements on the reasons for the persecution, banishment and gave information on the property. Unfortunately, those statements ended partly in the MUP, partly in the Refugee Commissioner, but we don't have a comprehensive record. So the proposal for this amendment, the addition, in fact, to this law, to carry out a full, complete record of the mobile and immovable property of the persons who have left their hearths, has abandoned their private property, their rights, which have come here and they have sought these rights. Unfortunately, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have left the return of these rights to individual demands of individuals who are being dumped in the mud of the administrative and judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, who knowingly delay all these actions with various manipulative reasons and actions, in particular, legal actions, legal and sublegal acts, avoid the return of those rights. What is important to stress is that Serbs who are expelled are looking exclusively for their own. Minister, refugees seek their private property and their long acquired rights! Nothing more. State authorities of the Republic of Serbia, as provided for in Article 4. The law, which remained in force, is obliged to help refugees, but state authorities, not to stand alone in a procedure that has been pending in front of Croatian authorities for years. This is done in the most painless way by state acts, by state activities. Here, the presidents are now talking, the government's presidents have talked earlier, various ministries are co-sponsoring each other, and that's how it's handled. He doesn't get rid of himself individually. We are doomed to fail if we resolve it individually. Tell the Prime Minister this initiative. I speak from the heart, from the soul of the Krajina. We want ours. We're not looking for someone else's, just our own. Nothing else. This is our divine right and the right that belongs to us both by international law and by the law created under certain agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia in the last 15 years. We have this agreement on normalising relations signed by the two states, which both apartments have committed to returning, physically, free and safe return to the hearth. However, what do we have in practice? We have that from 5% to 8% of Serbs have really returned there. Why aren't the others? Let's ask ourselves, shall we? Fear? Uncertainty? Discrimination? This is the basic definition of grants in the Republic of Croatia. However, once the right has been obtained, under international law, the law of the national authorities of the Republic of Serbia and under the Constitution of Article 13 and under the Law on Refugees is laid down. Have you defined the provisions of Article 4. A law on refugees that the Republic of Serbia will do everything to ensure the return of collective and individual property rights to all refugees from the Republic of Croatia? It's your duty. Why hasn't any of these rights been brought to an end? You have to answer that, not to me, you have to answer that to every refugee. They, poor people, torture, leave, apply, pay high court fees and fees, etc., but there is nothing behind them because the state apparatus of the Republic of Serbia that has to close it. Just on one occasion to show how discriminated they are, it's again from the domain of your ministry, the "inhabitant rights". According to the signed Agreement on the Normalisation of Relations, which defined in Article 7 the obligation to enable the smooth and safe return of all citizens, even established a certain legal category of fair compensation for all those who, due to war and war circumstances, had not been able to apply their rights. Household law is one of the property rights. Unfortunately, the Croats turned it into humanitarian law. Conscious. Why? So they don't return the apartments. The apartments were returned to all tenants of residential rights in Slovenia, Croatians in Croatia, in BiH to all tenants, all Serbs in Serbia who were holders of residential rights – they turned it into property rights or used it today or sold it or leased it, etc., property rights were used and it was in function. This was the case in both Montenegro and Macedonia. Only Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, I deliberately say Serbs because they cannot achieve that right, it is a total. We can see from this explanation that it's, somewhere, over 40 etc. There are various records. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia say it is 32,000, saying it is 46,000, well over 30,000, and about 40,000, etc. It's papaziania. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must know what property it is taken from Serbs! If that's 30,000, that's 30,000. If it's 50,000, it's 50,000. The Serbian Krajina government's data in persecution say it's about 50,000. There are only 26,000 military apartments; people were paying, they signed a contract with the Military Property Affairs Directorate in that former SFRY. They started paying. They paid a year or two and there was a war. People are being expelled. They were kicked out of these apartments, etc. No one's talking about those apartments anymore. They have contracts, but in front of which courts, how do they come, how do they solve the question of these apartments? Fifty thousand. That is why I asked the amendment to record and that, on behalf of every user of that apartment, the state authorities appear before the Croatian authorities, before international institutions, before the International Court of Justice, and that it is fortunate that this all ends in the court of justice. It's an international standard, if someone committed genocide, ethnic cleansing, any form of war crime, he has to answer. The intensity of this society should be – all those who committed genocide must respond. There's no deal. The international law does not know the agreement – come on, we will forgive them or those. There's no forgiveness in war crimes! Therefore, the president of this country has no right to withdraw the suit because there were crimes! We all say the crimes were committed. Whoever committed a war crime should answer! Whoever took the property, Croatia took the apartments, did not return it to the Serbs. Is that 50,000, 40,000, 30,000, that's property law. If it was achieved by the BiH and Serb residents in BiH, it was returned to him by resident law in any property and financial sense, if it was achieved by the Slovenian, if it was achieved by the Macedonian, if it was achieved by a Serb in Serbia, then it was right by some automation, by some international law, by national law, national law, then it belongs to a Serb citizen who was expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, and a set of other rights that we must bring to an end, it obliges us. This is what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia undertake, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by applying the Law on Refugees in Article 4 and by many other laws and agreements. The Agreement on the Succession in Section G point 6) clearly states that the obligations of all Succesors relating to household rights will apply equally to persons who were nationals of the SFRY and who had such rights without discrimination on any basis, such as gender, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin. This is about national origin, Serbs as Serbs, as a nation, have no right to return. The task of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must also be expressed towards the Croats and the international community. To this we are bound by the Agreement on the Normalisation of Relations, to this we are bound by the Agreement on Succession, the Sarajevo Declaration and many other formal, informal meetings, talks, etc. There's no regulation of relationships. How will this same Croatia that seized the rights, which stole that right, enter the EU? How will the EU, which above all appreciates certain standards, accept the state that has committed the theft of other people's property? No entry into the EU! There is no fulfilment of European standards until this right is restored, until the right to action is restored, until the right to obtain pension rights and any rights arising from pensions, benefits and other social rights and a number of other rights that are, unfortunately, taken away, but no one, except us, is individually considering them. Ministers, your ministry, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all state authorities must work to bring back to the Serbian refugees what belongs to them. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39180	Eight minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39181	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, when it comes to refugees, Serbia is not working enough to solve our fellow citizens' social problems, therefore, Serbs who have been expelled from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Even there are those who object why Serbs came to Vojvodina, that they do not accidentally endanger the natives and that it is the Serbs who are going to bother them. I'll tell you on the case. He spoke about property and the acquisition of fundamental rights in the area of real law. How is that regulated with us? Under the Constitution, foreigners can also acquire property rights on real estates and refugees cannot. I'll tell you that in Panchev, there are no refugees who can buy the apartments they were assigned to use. On the other hand, they are excluded from electricity, charged for heating, and no subsidy is given to these people or any aid is given to them. I don't know why the minister won't listen. Mr. Minister, you may be busy, but listen to what I'm about to tell you, it's true. There's a large number of refugees on the beggar stick. Why does the government of the Republic of Serbia allow Croats and their tycoons to buy and manage assets that they acquired in a very suspicious manner, paid by modest means, in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, Mr. Todorovic and several other tycoons from Croatia have 200 companies in Serbia. This is where they opened the trade chains. They trade here with their goods, but they return to Croatia and Slovenia. Why can't our citizens, therefore, refugees acquire property rights to real estate in Serbia, if that's what foreigners can do? However, I must mention, some have recently begun to stand in defense of some who are guilty of both the Flash and the Storm. The Yugoslav People's Army was the third army in Europe, the most capable in the Balkans. How was it possible for JNA generals to hand over the garrisons and the most modern and murderous weapons, as well as the tanks and missile units? How is it possible for a single Corps, 17,000 soldiers, to surrender to the Ustashas? How is it possible for so many tanks to surrender? How was it possible that the defence strategy of Yugoslavia was such that it only focused on the outside enemy, but did not care what the mechanics would do as internal enemies in the former SFRY? Refugees must get the status of citizens who have the right to buy property in the Republic of Serbia. They have the property that remained there, which the Croats kidnapped, because they were expelled, as I said, by some of our general and wrong policies, and also by some in Belgrade who helped not to go there to the JNA, to defend their people, not to defend their country. And you know very well that this could have been done very effectively, but there were many brakes, which prevented the defence of the state going to save Yugoslavia, not to get what it came to. When we talk about the Army, here, you now have some special forces sent to Ohio for schooling, and in Ohio there's one civilian protection unit. I ask the question - for what purposes and for what program are our officers going to, and there are several who go there, or what programme are they trained there for both whose objectives and for what purpose? Yeah, you know? And that's where you usually go, five or six months or eight months, on intelligence courses and spying. I just have to remind you and ask you, Mr. Minister, if you can, I won't take more time away from my colleagues, see, send someone to Panchev to solve the problem, so that refugees in Pancheva can live peacefully and live in apartments built and can buy them out, as other citizens of other countries do, and at least Serbs enjoy some priority in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39182	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39183	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to clarify some of the questions that are open here again. First, the issue of acquisition of property is not disputed for refugees or foreigners. So refugees who came to Serbia, began from 1991 to today, who somehow managed to build their roof over their heads, they were able to register it on their personal name and it is not at all controversial to acquire the property of refugees. I suppose Mr. Jojic aims at another thing – the problem of 500 refugees, who are currently housed in apartments, which were made under the programme of international donors with the local community, among other things in Panchev, which is an open question. It is not a question that can be solved by this law on refugees, but I agree that it should, or should, be resolved. We believe, and in the discussions we had on the subject, that the way to resolve this issue through the amendment of the Social Housing Act, where this issue would in some way be treated as a sui generis problem, as a question that would not endanger, in general, the general provisions of the Social Housing Act, but to create the possibility for these people to buy these apartments. Because all the other refugees in the programs that have been made by donor means will be able to buy these apartments with this law, which is the purpose of this law. However, it is true that refugees in Panchev, and in several other cities living in apartments that are practically state-owned, will not be able to enter this programme, but through amendments to the Social Housing Act, we can launch such an initiative and this issue could be resolved. First of all, I'd like to speak precisely, so it won't again be a question of whether refugees can acquire property in Serbia. They can make it! One more question. I may have said that a year ago, when we talked about this topic, about another law, I said that when a small number of Serbs living in Croatia anyway, some of my fellow MPs are trying to reduce. Mr Krasic did so today after the pay phone. I hope, in the best of intentions, because he may not know the data, because 2% of Serbs live in Croatia, but lives close to 5% of Serbs, about 200 thousand, and not less than 100,000, as it would have been estimated by Mr Krasic. It's not a good thing we're doing it because these people live hard there anyway, and we said, we agreed that they were deprived of their many rights and that they were fighting for those rights. It's not good to cut down a small number of Serbs currently living there anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39184	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. National MP Petar Jojic is asking for a word. You don't have the right to a replica, you can only from the time of the parliamentary group. Do you want to use MEP time? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39185	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think it's a good thing my colleague said that this question should be resolved. I don't know why the government doesn't solve that question. You have seen it as a matter of priority – to allow it to be amended by the Social Housing Act, but it is in the Government. You see, the government knows all this, or – the government knows all the problems refugees have. That's why the government has to solve the refugee issue. The issue of these apartments, because they are state-owned apartments, i.e. when all citizens of Serbia were able to buy apartments in 100 marks, you understand, about a million and 300 of them who submitted requests and exercised that right, and I guess also Serbs from Kninska Krajina, from the Republic of Croatia and BiH, have the right to get what they naturally belong to in Serbia, so that they can buy – but not according to that 1990 law, 1991, but rather ask them to pay the market price. See, they'll be a hundred times in a more unfavourable position. On the other hand, I don't know, sir, dear colleague, you were born in the Knin region, right? (Yes) I don't know if you went there and did you know how much trouble there was? What problems are present, to whom extent, and who is responsible for solving these problems? I think it is necessary for these answers to be resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is. Even if it were 1%, 2%, and 5% and 10%, that they returned, it is not enough for nearly a million exiled from the territory of Croatia and BiH. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39186	One minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39187	Thank you. I'd just like to explain this question, first of all, about the apartments. So this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, all refugees living in apartments that are citizens of donor funds, will be able to buy these apartments under favourable conditions. This is about a small number of apartments, which were built under a special programme, and this law could not resolve their issue without breaking the Social Housing Act, as a special law that was made just to resolve the issue of social housing in Serbia. Mr. Jojic, I must inform you that I know the situation in the Knin region well, and I could say that I know the numerical state of Serbs almost every place in Kninska Krajina, from Dalmatia, like, Banija, Kordun, to Western Slavonia and Slavonia. I don't think you should doubt that. Those who know these problems also know that I stood up for them to solve them. The people who sit in your parliamentary benches know how I advocate solving these problems. In this sense, there is no big difference in finding the problem of the Serbs in Croatia between you and me. However, there is a difference on how they are resolved. I think it is necessary for them to sit down and talk to the legal representatives of the Republic of Croatia, the international community, or international organisations, all. And in that way, not to discuss these problems, we won't solve them, as we haven't solved them since 1995, when there was some possibility of talking about it. There were other conditions, there were difficult conditions, and we now have better conditions to talk about and put these questions on the agenda. I think that we should all have a constructive approach on this issue, just to help people who want to exercise their rights; when it comes to return, when it comes to individual rights and for those people who want to stay here to help them integrate into the Republic of Serbia, to create an opportunity for them to get a roof over their heads, to pave the muddy roads, which are probably around Panchev and here around Belgrade and Serbia, to fight for it, at any level in power, to solve these issues, and to help those people get hired and to have social security, to be able to heal themselves. These things to talk about, and today we don't open up any questions that probably can't lead to open issues, which, apparently, exist, that we can easily agree on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39188	Time was used at the disposal of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group and minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 10 minutes. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39189	This is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39190	No, it's not a replica. People's MP, do you want to use the time of the parliamentary group? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39191	I don't know if the gentleman was 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 in Kninska Krajina, and was he involved in the defense of his people or not?- I'm sorry. If he studied in Belgrade and was here at the time – it is difficult for me to know from here what was going on in the premises of the former Croatia, i.e. in the territory of Republika Srpska. This question that my colleague has explained, this is one thing, these are only passwords, these are just phrases, these are false promises, this is just throwing dust in the face of refugees! I would like to and I would be happy and happy that my colleague, knowing the opportunities in Croatia and especially the problems of the Serbs, has not raised the issue so far to solve refugee problems and that they exercise certain rights to immovable property under the Law on property and legal relations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39192	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39193	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll use the time of the mandated DSS representative. So, I'm going to start with the finding Mr. Vesenovic made here, that the law will change, that there will be changes to the Social Housing Act. Right after this law, we'll be discussing another law, the Regional Development Act that was passed eight months ago, so it's better and faster here to change. So, what the DSS said eight months ago, I think that in the autumn we discussed the Social Housing Act, and submitted amendments concerning this topic and the topics of refugees within the social housing, today is announced as a possibility of change. This shows the concept of this government, that this government has no concept but to solve the problem by solving the problem by bringing it into law by ad hoc and writing changes and supplementing it every eight months. I just can't believe you couldn't bear it then that this law would change, because it had to change, there was an announcement, an EU demand to change the law, the agenda stood for this law, and I don't understand why you didn't agree to the Social Housing Act at the time. By the way, we've been commenting that you're going to get into this problem. Secondly, what you have commented on is that Croatia needs to talk, of course, dear colleague, every time we talk, and every time Croatia responds to these talks, but the problem is that after that, it does not implement those conclusions. We already had a chance to talk to Croatia in 2005 because there was a deal then called the Sarajevo Declaration, and then we agreed, we, Croats and BiH, that the problem of refugee in the region must end by 2006 and that it must be regulated so that those people who want to return to the place where they were expelled to return to that place and those who do not want to – to integrate into the environments in which they came after those situations when they were expelled. So, the end of 2006 was three and a half years ago, not to say no more, but the problem was not solved, exactly and above all, thanks to Croatia, which did not want to implement everything that was agreed on then. What we as the DSS said when we talked about this law in principle was that the international community must, above all, commit all organisations dealing with refugees, the commissary, to simply put pressure on those countries in the region that do not want to solve this problem regionally, because it cannot be solved partially, but must be solved regionally. It was also important for us to exert political pressure, so for God's sake, and legal pressure, because this is about legal matter, that these issues be resolved in those countries that obviously do not want this problem treated, and that is, above all, Croatia. So it's the first surprise. There's been a debate about it, and I'm going to continue to participate in it. Another surprise is that today this law here in the work when we talk about amendments represents Minister Ciplic, which is, on the one hand, good, because here we are all talking about violating human rights of Serbs in Croatia, so it's a good thing that our minister of human rights is here, but on the other hand, it's absolutely amazing that the government is also not sending here a man in charge, I'm talking to you about what we have brought about the Law on Government, directly in charge of the refugee issue. Vice President Jovan Krkobic never showed up here once. So there's no need to show up here. Mr. Krkobic also has a paid advisor who advises him only on refugee issues. It's amazing that Minister Dacic came by. All right, Mr. Dacic has prepared an explanation, obviously he has read the law, but, on the other hand, he is today, again, gone, when we need to talk about amendments. Now the third man is here, which shows, too, one general indifference and one position of the government -- well, someone should be on duty today, we'll send him to the Assembly, so let him listen to what they're saying. I don't know, Mr. Chiplet, which is why you deserve to be punished today to be here, to talk about a law that you are obviously neither in charge nor in any way involved in making. It is, in fact, the initial introduction of what I was saying and in principle when I was talking about that Serbia and today, almost 20 years from the start of the refugee crisis, has failed to solve this problem, not because it did not want it and did not want it to continue, but because, first of all, it is a very poor country, and, on the other hand, those who could help it, it is primarily the international community, obviously have different standards and obviously have different arches, and they do not want to force those countries that do not respect agreements and do not respect international law. Excuse me, property law is one of the rights the whole world understands, the language that the whole world speaks. Apparently, some countries have the right to disrespect human rights. I think it is time for Croatia to talk openly about what refugees are doing and to talk on the last train, as I would say, because practically all of these countries, and Serbia, and BiH and Croatia, countries that need to solve the regional issue, are in one of the last courtyards before joining the EU, because I cannot call the way they approach and approach the EU differently than the last yard. The issue of resolving refugee issues will be one of the issues that must be closed in order to allow the EU to join. The moment is that we are talking about it and I think we should use all the funds in the Assembly, and for God's sakes and the government, and apparently the government's representatives have other priorities, because otherwise I could call it that Minister Jeremic kept some quiet at the March 25th Ministerial Conference in Belgrade. So, it was the Ministerial Conference of Foreign Ministers, which was also attended by Croatian Foreign Minister Goran Jandrokovic, who then said several things that were aboutly silenced in our public, but were not for silence, but were just statements that opened that possibility to sit down and talk about them, because there was obviously something wrong. For example, his statement – Croatia has made very serious access to obligations by accepting the Sarajevo Declaration. We could ask what obligations she accepted, and how did she resolve those obligations, or how did she resolve those obligations because, excuse me, for three and a half years, it was a great time for some things to be resolved? I repeat, the Sarajevo Declaration, which was an act of goodwill and a political act, which was an act of maturity, so in 2005, it was signed, we both made a commitment to both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to solve the issue regionally and to solve it by the end of 2006, to close it then. Is it closed today, in the spring of 2010? Of course, it's not closed! What has left it open, and what is stopping this problem from closing? Well, that's, above all, non-recognition of acquired rights to former tenant rights holders. The largest number is Serbs in Croatia, who also lived in Croatian cities. I am interested in the statement, and that is why I also stressed that the international community and organisations have to help, representatives of the OSCE, UNHCR and the European Commission have voiced concern that the political consensus of the compensation mechanism has not yet been reached. It simply sounded very two-faced to me and it was as if someone wanted to joke with Serbia, which apparently has a desire to solve this problem, obviously requires mechanisms to solve this problem, but apparently there is a problem of the double arches that the international community puts before Serbia, on the one hand, and the other country, on the other hand, and allows Croatia to violate the basic human rights of Croatian citizens, Serbs who have escaped to Serbia, without using legal means, which are a cure in every normal rule of law, to force Croatia to continue to implement it. Furthermore, a statement that was very problematic, which should have been commented, and not commented, is Jandrokovic's statement, which further says: "Croatia has made very serious approaches to obligations by accepting the Sarajevo Declaration, and above all when it comes to rebuilding the destroyed objects. 146,000 destroyed and destroyed buildings have been renovated, spending 5.3 billion euros. In Croatia, 120,000 refugees and exiles were integrated." The question is, is it 120,000? All the data suggests that this number is also three times smaller than that 120,000, that it's a figure of 45,000 returnees. Then, the job experience issue was resolved without restrictions. I would say that a new, better solution was found in Croatia ten days ago, instead of the long-term care of the owners of tenant rights. This statement was obviously given to correct Croatia's image, as Croatia, if it wants to join the EU, has problems with failing to meet what it signed with the Sarajevo Declaration. So, if this is given for this purpose, and it is, the solution to the refugee problem in this part of the Balkans has nothing. This issue must be resolved and it is important for the state to know that, in order for its officials to help it, one way is to return. Let's see how it's settled in Croatia, so it can sit down and talk about it. First of all, we all know the problem of covert charges, that's a big problem. At the end of his presentation, Minister Dacic referred to it as not a question of the MUP, but rather a question from the ministry of justice and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Let's admire what the ministers, who were called by the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, have to say. Is it possible to return, and 100,000 Croatian citizens, or Serbs, who have been expelled from there, have a problem because Croatia does not recognise the acquired right, the tenant rights they had there. In 1996, Croatia found the most elegant way, which is completely contrary to all the laws on human rights, to punish those people it expelled, who fled from "Bleek", "Storms" and similar actions that, above all, focused on destroying the lives of Serbs and banishing Serbs outside the territory of Croatia. So she then found a way, by law of 1996, to take away the right of those people who are six months out of their apartment and that they no longer have to return to their apartment first. Is it possible that no one in this country can sit down and open that question, to see how this issue has been resolved in some other countries of Europe? It is not possible for Serbs to only violate basic human rights and property and material issues. Therefore, this is what needs to be discussed and I agree with you that you should sit down and talk. The further problem is the so-called question of fair compensation. And that's a question to discuss, to sit down and talk a little bit about it. Is it possible that only Serbs have no right to fair compensation? I have information that only what was destroyed in Krajina, not counting human lives, which, of course, have no price, but only material damage is 30 billion euros. Not to tell you just how many villages were burned down, how many Serbian houses were destroyed, 40,000 Serbian houses in Krajina, and 380 Serbian villages were burned down. So let's open up the question of how we're gonna make it right for people to be expelled from an apartment that they don't have the right to come back to. Not to be unfair, Croatia has begun to resolve the issue. She had two projects and they deal with this issue of refugees as a humanitarian issue. Please, it's not a humanitarian issue and it must not be treated as a humanitarian question. This question is far from humanitarian. Is it humanitarian that someone ran off with their heads, leaving all theirs to be destroyed? It has nothing to do with the humanitarian solution. So Croatia started solving this housing problem, but in a very nice way. No one can guarantee you that you will return to the place from which you were expelled, and even if you happen to return to that place, then no one can guarantee that you will come to your apartment or your home where you lived. That's not how you solve a question. I think it's very important to say something else. This issue must definitely be closed, Serbia must use all its political resources to close the issue. This question is a question of human rights violations, and that is why it is good that the minister is here. The issue of human rights is a fundamental issue, a question of civil liberties and rights. Serbia has the right to open this issue with the international community, to open this issue once it sits with Croatia, with BiH largely the issue is resolved. So the question remains that Croatia is being discussed and negotiated, and these are open issues that no one from Croatia will answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39194	45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time and time has been used at the disposal of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Maric submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39195	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 16 speaks of conditions under which a refugee loses his right to care. I suggested erasing that member. The government rejected the amendment with the following explanation: "The national strategy for resolving the issues of refugees and internally displaced persons foresees the closure of collective centres. In order to implement that strategy, refugees are offered adequate solutions, respecting their best interest and compliance", I stress, "with the capabilities and capacities of the Commissioners. "Instead of comments, I ask one question – what will happen if the Commissioner does not have the opportunity to offer, for example, a five-member family, a mother with four children, after being kicked out of a collective accommodation, any other accommodation or if she is able to offer that family some accommodation that would be far worse than the one she had at the collective center? As for the situation of refugees, I believe that the state of Serbia has failed the most in providing conditions, and these conditions could be secured through interstate contacts, conditions that would allow Serbs exiled from BiH and Croatia to return to their homeland. I remind you that around 700,000 Serbs have been expelled as part of the creation of an ethnically pure state from Croatia. By now, 50,000 of them have returned, or 7%. Croatia is declaring its return to the Serb population, but is doing everything it can to prevent it. Most of all, he does it by harassing people through false and secret charges. You have a situation that even today, 15 years after the war, it doesn't pass for a month without any of the Serb returnees in Croatia being charged and convicted of incredible banal crimes and fabricated crimes. I'll just remind you of two cases. The first is the case of Svetozar Karan from Korenica. He was sentenced by the County Court in Gospić to 14 years in prison for, quote, ''the crimes he and his ancestors have committed over the past 500 years, along with the Ottoman Turks, over the Croatian people. '"The second example is the case of Željko Knezevic from Knin. A man now lives in the Great Plan, has certain existential and health problems. He was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison, explaining that as a guard of the Knin Military Prison, he killed a prisoner. The problem is that Zeljko Knezevic has never in his life been a military officer of the Serbian Krajina Army, has never set foot in a prison where he allegedly committed a crime. Now I ask one question to Minister Ciplic – how is it possible that the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has not yet provided from the state of Croatia, in interstate contacts, for Croatia to deliver Serb lists on charges? I don't think it's possible to normalize relationships without it. Several times I heard a statement from the Ministry of Interior that it has an extremely good co-operation with the police in Croatia. It seems to me, Minister Dacic recently visited Zagreb, and it is particularly said that the co-operation is good in the area of the fight against crime. Well, is there more crime than to allow people who have been expelled from their homeland, who have been kidnapped from property, 650,000, to return to their homeland and live there? I don't think there's a bigger crime. It's important to find out who killed Ivo Pukanic, but I guess it's more important who's in the Flash, the Storm killed more than 7. 000 Serbs and other Croatian military operations. As a man, do you seek the lists of the accused Serbs, and what answers do you receive? Nothing better in the Federation of BiH either. Because of the weather, I'll only give you four examples. In BiH, there are 527 dead Serb villages in the Muslim-Croatian part, where there are no living souls. Some of them lived five before the war. Thousands of people. The next example is my native Kupres. More than 2,000 Serbs lived before the war in the city of Kupres. We made 65% of the city's population there, 70% of the country was owned by us. Now there are seven Serb older age in the city of Kupres. Nothing better with the BiH capital either. It's Sarajevo. There were 160,000 Serbs living in Sarajevo before the war, now only 7,000 live. The latest data, which will complete this exhibition, as evidence that Serbia has not done enough to pressure international factors, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, to enable the return of exiled people and to enable them to live a decent life, which is an example of seventy Serb settlements in the Federation of BiH, in which a total of 15,000 inhabitants live, including 2,200 children, who still have no electricity after the war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39196	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment to Article 18 was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39197	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Article 18 amends Article 19 from, for the time being, still in force. Otherwise, that article 19 is subject to a large number of changes. There seems to be even about 13, 14, let me say, sub-members 19a, 19b, 19c etc. The basic law was passed in 1992. After 18 years, we still have about 86,000 people who have refugee status and refugees living in Serbia. This means that these people and these families have not been able to return to now but independent states from which they fled or expelled, and no valid integration has yet been achieved. No matter how much Serbia has brought the National Strategy for addressing refugee issues back in 2002, we know that two ways are possible. It is: sustainable return and integration. We pointed out when there was a debate in the principle that it is good that this law speaks a little more about integration, i.e. helping refugees integrate into the Republic of Serbia, and without resolving the housing issue and housing problems, there is no successful integration and life is very difficult. I'll say that in 2005, there were 700 collective centres, and today there are about 60 of them, so there's a shift in this problem. Article 19 discusses solving and various ways of addressing refugee housing needs. Here it is stated, in the first part of this article, five different ways to address housing needs. The first way is to give state property immovable property to use for a certain period of time. Another way is, to give state property real estate in a lease for a certain time, with the possibility of buying. This is in the proposal of this member, and our amendment refers to suggesting that the word "purchase" be replaced by "purchasing". When, I think, all the MPs were talking about this, we used the word "purchasing," no one used the word "purchasing." Even the promoter in the very explanation of this Article 18, and the 19th changes said – in lease for a certain time or in ransom. Why did this word bother us? Because ransom means there's already some kind of contractual relationship. When citizens of then-Yugoslavia or Serbia had tenants' rights, apartments, they made a ransom at different prices. These were not market prices. That's why we think the term "purchasing" here is better than "purchasing," because there will be different prices, there will be no market. The bill promoter refused this amendment. I think you should accept it. The third way, proposed here to solve refugee housing problems, is to allocate funds to improve housing conditions. These are mostly smaller funds, so that people living in places that aren't adequate can adapt to make it better. The fourth way is to buy construction material for the start of building real estate. I know that the Commissioner, along with some local self-governments, has taken a lot of care, to try to get free pay in a certain local self-government, and then the Commissioner helped to obtain construction material and then provide himself with a roof over his head. The fifth way is to buy a country house with a garden, so I'm going back to this amendment, I think we should accept this amendment, and it shouldn't be in this law that it's "purchasing," because it's not classic shopping, but it's supposed to be the word "purchasing." Enough to say about the problem of the return of Serbs who have escaped from Croatia. One of our esteemed colleagues said here that he and his party felt that a solution to the problem had to be discussed. I don't think there's any party here that thinks these problems should be solved differently. Of course, those problems we have need to be solved through conversation and agreement. In 2005, as my colleague said, a signed so-called. The Sarajevo Declaration, where countries in the region agreed to solve the refugee problem in a year's time in the region. It seems to me that Croatia has not even started to solve this problem today. Croatia is one step away from full membership in the EU, and this is the moment when the state of Serbia and the government of Serbia together with some international organisations that are very well addressed to the problem of not solving the return of Serbs to Croatia, so this is the last moment Serbia has to take advantage of in order for Serbs seeking property, having property and having the right to do so, they can solve it in the Republic of Croatia. I have news here, since 16.4.2010, so from a few days ago, we all know that President Boris Tadic, together with Ivo Josipovic, met at Backo Monostor. This is, I don't know, I don't know what kind of meeting these two presidents are. In that news, it is obvious that several topics that were the subject of conversation are being highlighted. I'll remind you what they were talking about. This is a willingness to personally contribute to the withdrawal of mutual charges for genocide, but with the observation that this is the superior task of the government of the two countries, Serbia and Croatia. I will also quote our president who says: "Serbia goes from principle – that no crime should remain unenlightened and that no criminal should escape the sentence. ''That's what Tadic told reporters, in front of the elementary school "October 22nd", in which the meeting was held. He also voiced hope -- that over several years the two countries will have shared textbooks of history, with the same assessment of the past. So, in a few years, Serbia and Croatia will have shared history textbooks with the same assessment of the past?- I'm sorry. I'm sorry I can't ask, personally, the president to interpret this sentence to us and to the extent that this "equal past" would be interpreted. How much is that? One century back, two, twenty years. What I've learned here, too, is that our Human Rights Minister was present at Back Monostor himself. Maybe he could tell us – was there a problem with coming back? Is this what Croatia intends and did our president of the state mention this problem at all? Is Croatia going to solve this problem at all? Since I found out that you were there, maybe you could tell us if that's what you're talking about at those meetings at all?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39198	From the time of the parliamentary group, the time of eight minutes and 30 seconds has been used. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39199	Thank you, Your Honor. It seems to me that this proposal amends and complements the Law, as well as the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, especially the part relating to relations in the region, in fact clearly and unequivocally expresses the ultimate intention, the serious intention, to establish in the region such relations that will improve relations between the two countries, and all for the sake of two countries, for the sake of that part of the Serbian people living in Croatia, on the one hand, and Serbs we are discussing today, refugees living in Serbia. Yes, these issues were also open, but the issues were first and foremost opened in the way that the two presidents agreed, agreed, that all open issues that have so far stood should not remain unresolved, but that the two states should work in such a way as to resolve these issues. It was the key to the story, and it seems to me, a joint statement, that finding, that intention was repeatedly transmitted to me. There are no secrets, and there is no dilemma that's been promoted in these conversations, not only in that, but in the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39200	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39201	I thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Minister, we have proposed an amendment in Article 18 that, at the point ''2), by giving state property immovableity in a lease for a certain period of time with the possibility of ransom. 'Not shopping, 'but bathing.' Several MPs spoke about the difference between buying and buying. It's not just that. The problem has arisen, it seems, from the beginning, from the release of this law into the congregation procedure. When we discussed this proposal in principle we had the Home Secretary and the First Deputy Prime Minister, today we have you as a representative of the Government. I will remind you, Mr. Minister, what the first Deputy Prime Minister said in his address to the MPs, which is why we insisted, and we also received confirmation in this presentation from Minister Dacic, that it is better to deal with the ransom. Mr Dacic says -- based on the money collected from the ransom, it is estimated to be about six million euros, which could be enough, etc. So Mr. Dacic is talking about ransom, not buying. That gives us the right to insist on this amendment. You answered, or I don't know if you or any of the other representatives of the government, as you replied. That's what we're gonna continue to debate and debate. I understand, Minister, Mr. Chiplet, that you are here to defend this law, because it is a matter of refugees and a question of human rights. I understand what Mr. Dacic was here, but I don't understand one thing, Mr. Minister, that that member of the government who is truly in charge of it and who has his advisor, who spends funds from the budget, never appears in this assembly to explain this law. What's the problem? This gentleman who doesn't appear here for days, who should explain this law and plow with us, MPs, I don't know if he is the second, third, fourth, or who, in turn, is Mr. Krkobic. Does Mr. Krkobic have a problem with the National Assembly or with us MPs when it comes to a certain law to defend himself? The other kind of problem that arises in this law and which is not only a question of this law, but other laws, you know, Mr. Chiplet, it's a good thing that you're trying to defend the rights of refugees, it's a good thing that you're speaking publicly, but let's see what kind of policy you're running here? This kind of policy led by this government can't defend the rights of refugees, because that policy is crawling, spoiled, it doesn't exist. It's a major marketing policy within the state, and weak powers towards what the problem should be solved. Marketing inside the state doesn't solve these problems. It solves the conversation with those who are obliged, and there is no discussion and that is the problem with this policy, in fact, the lack of any policy. We don't doubt your intentions, but it's a weak policy, none that isn't able and has no capacity, this way of leading, to solve this kind of problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39202	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39203	Thank you. Your Honour, not wanting to enter the debate, I would only like to defend in the extreme, if I have already entered the termological debate, what is proposed in the law. For people who use words daily – buying or buying, it is certainly a daily term, whose content they do not have to think at all, whether they are lawyers or not. But when something is in the law, then certainly, to make serious consultations, first of all with the Republic Secretariat for legislation, what and what term should be in the law, to be like a legal term and a more adequate concept. In this case, first of all, based solely on the argument given by the Republic Secretariat for Law, and it is said that the term – buying is much wider than buying, where, the ransom does not say much, does not impose any legal obligation on the terms and conditions under which the purchase, or purchase, will be made, to be the term 'purchase', as the Social Housing Act states. And on the basis of that one word, that one idea, no right could be drawn. There's got to be some kind of wider norm standing here. In the end, I couldn't agree with you on a refugee policy. To a large extent, what has been done and what seems to be a refugee stands, reasoned and documented, can be monitored, on the site of the Secretariat. It is a fact that is unrelated to this government, but to all governments, the Republic of Serbia. One government cannot be accused of refugees and the other cannot defend itself. The state of Serbia towards people who are refugees has its own system and has been functioning for almost two decades. Finally, what I am a little bit confused is the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the Government and the Assembly say that there can be ministers here, people who are resolutely at the head of certain resolutions, and cannot appear people who do not have a portfolio in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39204	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The time available for the parliamentary group is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39205	Mr. Minister, I've been quoting you what the first Deputy Prime Minister said, and you're explaining to me the terminologyal confusion. That raises the question to me – do you communicate with each other? Do you cooperate? Do you know what one says, what the other says? That's the problem. If you don't know what Mr. Dacic said in principle, then I wonder – did you even have before you the text of the law and the text of the amendment? In order to talk about a subject in a valid way, it is necessary to see the full debate on this legislative proposal. I didn't make up the word, the ransom. In the stenographic notes, that word stands. I warn you, and I draw your attention that you don't have any communication between yourselves, that one tells one story, the other story, the third one does something third, etc. Now, that says how and how the government works. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39206	A minute and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) National MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39207	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we discuss refugees and the refugees that have been the result of the policy that has been being conducted in this country for the past 20 years, I think that the state has in fact two-way obligations to improve the status of these people who have been forced to leave their place of residence. I would place first the state's obligation towards internal status, refugee status in Serbia itself, and I would secondly place the country's obligations towards the entire region, according to the former republics of the SFRY, from which space is encouraged by refugees and displaced persons. When we start with the status in the country of these unfortunate people, because what else to say about them than unfortunate people, the state has first of all an obligation to resolve the issue of their existence, which is housing and employment. Of the total number of more than 300,000 refugees, 63% of people are between 19 and 59 years of age. These are people who are workable, willing to contribute by their work to their existence. But only among them are over 30% unemployed. If compared to the unemployed domestic population, which is 20%, this means that there are far more unemployed among refugees than amongst the domicile population. When we look at how the state solved the housing issues of these refugees and displaced persons, we come to the conclusion that some 3,300 people, perhaps something more, resolved their living issue through the state, donations, and so forth. What about the other refugees? When we look at the collective housing still living 5,000 refugees, it's a very large number. The collective accommodation is indeed no solution for anyone, nor for those who were forced to leave their home. This law as a law cannot solve the problem itself, especially if the legislators have not approached not only objectively considering the situation of refugees, but rather trying to agree and learn from the refugees themselves who are their problems and how they imagine these problems being solved. So, there's one segment missing from this law, so we can also see that the refugee coalition has certain objections to the very text of the law. Those who will, in fact, have the most consequences of this law obviously disagree and are against this law. The aim of the law must always be to see the situation realistically and to make solutions rational, which can be applied if we really want this law to contribute to the development of the legal order in Serbia. Now I would like to say something about what the country's obligations are to the region in which the state is located. And that's where the country's obligation is two-way. The first is the obligation to really do a discontinuity with all those events that preceded the wave of refugees and displaced persons, so the discontinuity with the policy that has produced the consequences that we are discussing today. So the state finally has to clear up what it was in the '90s. The state must finally tell the truth about Vukovar, about Srebrenica, about Kosovo, about Markals and so on, so that we no longer list those famous places around which there is still one great regret of silence. So if this is done then we move on to the next one, which is co-operation with neighbouring countries in the region. Our foreign policy must first of all focus on its position in the region itself, on the relations this country has towards the former republics of the SFRY, with those countries with which it once committed one state. Because it's also one of the preconditions to finally close a chapter of refugees in the region, which is one of the key conditions to move on, to end an infamous story in the 1990s and an infamous break-up of the SFRY. Unfortunately, we have some daily messages saying that Serbia is ready to make peace with its neighbours, to improve maximum possible relations with countries in the region. On the other hand, again, we have some messages that say something contrary, so it would be good if our foreign policy focused a little bit and finally took a clear position where it really is seeking and what its primary goal is. And the main goal would be to strengthen Serbia's position in the region, to really give it the capacity of that quality that will make Serbia a leader of the region, not some country that will mainly pose a problem in the region, or beyond. If we consider that the state of Serbia currently has over 300,000 refugees on its budget, so there are so many people, who qualify to be the first in Europe for the number of refugees, and in the infamous 11th place in terms of world ranking, then Serbia really has to do everything on both the internal plan and the external plan in order to achieve this result to reduce the number of refugees, to encourage these people above all, to return to where they came from, and to allow them to return there truly safely, and this can only be achieved by one real, rational and good policy towards other countries in the region. On the other hand, Serbia must do its utmost to respect the Succession Agreement, which was concluded long ago in 2001. So this year we will celebrate the full nine years of this agreement, and that this agreement has not far gone from the initial letter, although it is not ratified in this Assembly, and I am particularly talking about Annex G, which and how clearly it speaks about private property and acquired rights. And private property and acquired rights in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY and how important issues are to achieve the desired results and effects of solving the refugee problem, because only if private property is resolved and the rights of these refugees and displaced people are acquired we can expect them to either return to where they came from or integrate into the state of Serbia. The issue is very important because of the property these people had to leave in Serbia, i.e. in the countries of the former SFRY region. It's mostly immobilized property. It is an property with which they can resolve their existential issues and would not have to depend entirely on any laws in Serbia, nor on budget donations or any donations, but would have their own property to freely dispose of. That's what's crucial when discussing the problem at all and refugee issues, and not just modernising the law, is changing some of the terms that are obsolete. So, the key is to encourage these people above all, to return to their places of residence, and if not to fully integrate them, which means to resolve their existential issues. I accept that this is very difficult today, that Serbia is in major economic problems, that it is difficult to address existential issues and the domicile population at all. However, this is a highly endangered category of the population, since they have come under such tragic conditions and opportunities as wars and war events. I would especially point out that Vojvodina received a lot of evasive people, a lot of displaced people, that Vojvodina was ready to help these people. The Duke's doing it day and day. Seven percent of Vojvodina's budget is intended for the Refugees' Fund and thus Vojvodina funds these unfortunate people, so that there is no problem with the integration of Vojvodina. It is ready to provide all possible support for people to integrate into our dukely society, both with the help of the Republic of Serbia and without its help. Purely, it is also a question of a human relationship with one who is threatened, and the Dukes have always been known to be willing to help without a lot of words, without grandiose acts, but persistently and truly solidarity. Therefore, I note, it is not the backbone of this bill whether it will be adopted or not, whether some amendments will be accepted or not, the only question is whether Serbia will finally close this key refugee chapter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39208	From the time set for the parliamentary group there are only one minute and 15 seconds left. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) Before we move on to the next amendment, in accordance with Article 27, I would like to inform you that the break of the morning section will be determined once we have completed the debate in particular, by searching the point we are currently discussing. Relatively unusual, but given the practice of extending hours and after 1800 hours, I'd like to give you a heads-up that we're going to end today at 1800 hours. So there's no extension. I apologize to anyone who might argue, it says in the Rules of Procedure, why you keep us informed. Simply because it is known that we use Article 85(5) more often than we use Article 85(1), which stipulates that the working day ends at 1800 hours. [[Applause]] It's gonna be like that today. The 19th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39209	Thank you. Before I move on to the concrete explanation of the amendments that I have submitted, I just want to take a moment's notice with one stated attitude, which is that it is outrageously rude for children in our region to learn the same history. I want to express my position not by representing in any way not by defending the position expressed by the president but by his personal position. I really believe that kids in schools need to learn science and learn science. Of course, I believe that they should also be brought up in the spirit of tolerance and cooperation with everyone else, but above all, I think it's important that schools be places where children learn from the scientific attitudes in force. Of course, I know history is written by winners. However, history in these parts of ours, the current one, has neither winners nor losers, I'd say we're all losers. I am strongly opposed to losers being our children by interpreting, political interpretations of history to each other. Imagine if our children learned the interpretation of chemistry or the interpretation of biology where it would be their place in the education system of Europe and the world. I truly deeply believe that in schools children should not be manipulated by political views of ruling or opposition parties. That's the situation in our past. Personally, as a parent, unfortunately, I had a situation where I was amazed by the texts I found in my children's history textbooks and I have to say, and today I believe that I was right when I advised them to skip some lessons. Of course, there have been attempts to present even valid scientific understandings in the biology of change and different presentations to our children. I think we should really leave it behind and teach the children to move on, to cooperate with everyone in the region and in Europe and to create for themselves a better future than the one we are trying to create for them. As for the concrete amendments to the law and this Article 19. I want to say something, too. Of course, I'll also use the time of the parliamentary group. The Committee on the Reduction of Poverty has on several occasions considered the law, and over the past several times it has had topics related to the status of refugees and displaced persons in Serbia. In this regard, we have also established cooperation with several associations of refugees and displaced persons, but also very successful co-operation with UNHCR and some domestic organisations of experts dealing with these topics. We also had the opportunity at the last session of the Committee to give them the opportunity to make their objections to the law, which they did, and I stress that all members of the Committee on Poverty Reduction received objections from the Alliance of the Refugees and were able to submit amendments to this law accordingly. I, as representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, have submitted several amendments. Some of them, as we had the chance to hear, were adopted, and some, unfortunately, were rejected. As for Article 19, I must really state one of my views that is not directly related to its contents, but rather to the technique of writing these amendments to the Law. First of all, I believe that these amendments to the law contain so many changes, that it should have been a law for itself and then things would be much clearer for all of us. In fact, Article 19 contains 21 members in its composition, so to speak, and the technique of writing amendments to this article was very complex. Since we can't write more amendments to one member, then on this 21 point we could only write one amendment. So the situation happened to me, since I had more objections to this article, to more than 21 points, that some could have been accepted, and some could not have been accepted, and I would have come to the situation that my entire amendment, or everything was rejected, had I not made an amendment, which I did. Now, what are we stuck on? This is an amendment, that is, why this Article 19 is so large, well, because it determines, in fact, the conditions under which refugee housing problems can be solved, it defines these conditions and therefore this is one of the most important members, or one of the most important amendments to this law. Therefore, Article 19, sub-Article 19b, paragraph 1 point 5, provides that housing issues of refugees may be resolved provided that they are not users of other programmes in the integration or return process. My formulation concerned that these conditions should be specified more precisely, and I added an intervention to which it is said – that they can be users and some other programs, if these programmes contribute to solving their housing problems. Only those who are users of the programme, which could solve the housing issue, will be excluded, therefore, not any programme. As it was, it would rule out anything, if someone was using some help, say, in getting construction material, for some little repair, then it couldn't be the user of these programs, it would shut it down. With this change, we have achieved that people who used some minor programs are not excluded. I thank the government for accepting this, and I think it's really for the benefit of the refugees. In Article 19e, there is also one significant change. According to the proposed amendments to the law, 90 days after the death of the beneficiary of a residential space, his successors were required to renew the contract with the tenant. It was raised as a question of whether these heirs were truly sufficiently skilled, legally educated enough to be informed within 90 days of the renewal of the contract? They may not recognize the law, not knowing the legal provisions, assuming that this right will automatically be passed on to them and within 90 days, practically, irrevocably lose the right to use that space. I have entered the intervention, which has been accepted, is that the procurator has an obligation that after the death of whoever used this space offers his successors a contract which they will sign and thus become further users of this space. The proposed solution remains 90 days after this contract offer by the tenant. So I believe that many people who are not sufficiently educated or sufficiently legally educated, or sufficiently informed, are protected by such a solution, otherwise, there would really be an opportunity to lose some rights because of ignorance and ignorance. Article 19z item 1 point 5 provides for a possible loss of rights in the event that the refugee or his family did not continuously use the living space they live in within three months. I believe that a restriction should be introduced and that one who does not use and should not be a user of that space, provided that there are other solutions. However, I felt that this provision was too restrictive and that it casts out even the possibility of legitimate reasons. It can be imagined that a person or relatives do not use for three months, for example, living space because they were in a hospital or had some other, indeed, legitimate reason. I believe that this more flexible solution, in fact, relaxes the situation and enables people to bear proof of the justification of the situation they were in and why they couldn't use the trusted space for three months, not that they were automatically denied the right to do so. Also, article 19r says the provisions of this law apply to other budget users when deciding on issues related to addressing refugee housing needs. The first question was, who are the other beneficiaries of the budgets that can solve housing needs, so this solution made it clear that they were the only units of local self-government and I introduced a provision that they must respect this law only when the refugee needs are resolved in co-operation with the Refugees Commissioner, because we can imagine that there can be many other programs that local self-governments want to solve the problems of refugees in their territory and that they can then make their own contractual commitments, not related to this law. That's what's been accepted and I think these are the good changes that will be specified by Article 19, which is too massive, and make it to a greater extent gives rights to the people it applies to. However, what is not accepted is a provision that concerned the size of the space that can be assigned. The proposed solution foresees that for one or two persons their housing issue can be resolved by awarding or renting, as already provided by law, up to 30 square metres. It really seems to me, and I believe it's a common opinion of everyone, that up to 30 square meters for two people is really the limit below all the minimum housing. What does 30 mean? Can that mean 12 squares for two people? I think that's a really bad solution. My proposal was to be at least 30 square feet for two people. That proposal, unfortunately, was not accepted. According to the explanation I received, it is in collapsing with some other regulations or legal solutions. I really don't know, but it seems to me that this formula by 30 is really undefined and gives one limit that's too small to provide some decent housing conditions. That would be about the article 19. By the way, I think it's important that we finally, even if it was changes and amendments to the law, we've had the strength to pass, or that we'll have the strength to pass this law that many refugee problems, above all, will solve housing problems. I would like to stress that we have also received a memo signed with an eye, I think, 700 signatures of representatives of about 500 refugee families, who, unfortunately, will not be allowed to buy or buy apartments. They believe that this law is put in an unequal position with all other refugees who will be able to do so. I have not submitted an amendment that is related to resolving this issue, because I have received assurances that, simply by this law, it is not possible to resolve it, because they are participants in the program that defined relations at the very beginning, by signing contracts that have been signed with the International Organization which has donated these apartments. I am aware of this, however, and I appeal once again to the Commissioner and to the Government that, if possible, the issue of these families solve, so that they would not really be brought into an unequal position with everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39210	From the time of the parliamentary group, 13 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39211	I'm just going to say briefly what the essence of this amendment is. Namely, the law came from equality in the decision to integrate into Serbia or return to the place of early residence. This amendment is a precise way of helping Serbia's countries return to their previous residence. Since, in some way, the end of the debate on the law is coming to an end in detail, I will end up saying that DS will be advocated in the next period, above all, that this law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act is being consistently applied, on the one hand, that in this way, refugee problems that want to be integrated into the Republic of Serbia, but also that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course the President of the Republic of Serbia and all institutions in charge of caring for refugees, but also Serbs in the region, will make further efforts to enable the sustainable return of Serbs to the Republic of Croatia and to allow them access to the rights. I am pleased that the concern of refugees and Serbs in the region is one of the DS's priorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39212	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39213	I would refer to what previous counterpart Mr. Vesenovic said, that the government and the DS will advocate a speedy solution to refugee problems. I am afraid that we are witnessing the overall difficult and bad situation in society, both in economic, social, and in every other sphere, so I am not sure if this government is unable to address some of the basic needs of citizens, that in an effective way it will be able to solve the fast-tracked and refugee issue. The amendment submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group concerns the segment of integration of refugees into our society. The DSS parliamentary group understands why the government gave this response to the proposed amendment. I would like to point out why this amendment provides for a reduction of up to 70% for the purchase of housing units in which refugees live. The minister present during the principle debate said that by buying these apartments, according to the bill, when it was adopted, it would be collected in the Fund of about 6m euros, which is about enough to build around 1,000 new housing units for refugees. Otherwise, the minister himself used the term "purchasing", as proposed by the DSS parliamentary group, not "purchasing" or "purchasing" as set out in the bill. The key idea of this amendment is to highlight and underline the picture of solidarity among refugees, as the funds, as the amendment envisions, would significantly increase participation in the Fund itself to build housing units for refugees. So this, along with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and funds from international donations, would help to deal more effectively with issues of housing for refugees, whom, as we heard today and according to official data, there are, somewhere, about 86,000 in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39214	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39215	Madam Chairman, I would use my four minutes as much as I think I have as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39216	The time of the authorised representative has been used, and the parliamentary group is available for 8.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39217	When we have already brought an end to this amendment and when the debate on this law will be over soon, I would say a few things that we, as the DSS Group, have insisted on and that we have potentiated in our speeches. The first, of these things, is that for us from the DSS, this law is only the first, though, a big step, but indeed one of the first steps, and we expect that this law should follow a few more laws which, I suppose, will not be in collapsing, which should enable the necessary integration of Serbs who have escaped from the space of the former Yugoslavia and who, practically, for 20 years cannot exercise their right to a normal life. The second thing, which was very important to highlight and which DSS MPs have repeatedly pointed out in their speeches, is that we insist that this refugee problem be solved in a trilateral way, i.e. that all actors are involved in the adoption of common positions and we believe that we should be able to rely on this approach to the achievements of the Sarajevo Ministerial Declaration. I think it should be potential every time you find yourself at some joint meetings and it's very important to keep that attitude as one of the first and primary positions. The third thing, which the DSS points out, is that the issue of refugee is not a humanitarian issue, and that the issue is a political issue of a couple of excellencies, primarily for the country of Serbia, which at one point had millions of refugees on its territory, and the devastated and destitute indeed struggled to survive both as a country and to save these people at least a naked life if they couldn't preserve their dignity. Europe knows the concept of human rights, it has very high standards of human rights, Serbia and how it works to develop human rights. So we have every right as a country to insist that Serbs living in the region, who, above all, are Croatian citizens, must have human rights and that all their human rights be respected, as well as in any other European country. That's what's important and what we have to insist on every time. What's just as important, and it doesn't need to be forgotten, is the right to return, a right that lasts forever. It can't be committed to a year or two or another period. In fact, Croatia is acting at this point as if the question had ended for it. She said, "Whoever comes back is welcome, who has not returned, we do not talk about him, but about those who have returned." So the right to return is a fundamental human right, it can last forever. Everyone has a right to decide when they will return, whether they will return and where they will return. This is what Croatia must respect and therefore the Serbian government must take care of in all types of negotiations, talks and meetings. People have the right to return whenever they want to come back and have the right to return or to the place from which they went or elsewhere, but that's their right and their decision to tell themselves where they want to go back. These are some things I think we should insist on. The DSS insists on that, and I think the Serbian government, in any case, must respect it, in the interest of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39218	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, the National MP Marina Toman submitted. The word is Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39219	I wonder how much time we have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39220	Five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39221	Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment, we propose to allow the refugees, in addition to the lease for a certain time, to conclude a contract on the purchase of immovable property under the conditions laid down by the law. We can say that the amendment in some way equates all refugees, that is to say, cancels that unequal position in which some are placed. Namely, some refugee families who use immovableity in the state property provided by the donor program have been left with the will of donors to transfer them to property under certain conditions. The obligation to transfer rights is regulated by an agreement, i.e. by a contract between donors, commissioners and municipalities on whose territory apartments are built. Our view is that this right is made possible by all refugees. Therefore, they should all have the same option, therefore, and enter into a lease agreement and enter into a real estate buy-in contract. If these people had another option, they would surely have solved the problem of housing in some other way. If the government has already defined that, in addition to returning, as it stands in the explanation, it advocates the integration of refugees as a permanent solution to their issue, then you should indeed accept our amendment, because we must prevent any kind of discrimination, or we must prevent the placing in an unequal position of one of the refugees in relation to the other. We could hear it was a very small number of people. But the question is: Shouldn't that small number of people have the same position as others? To conclude, the position of the SRS is that discrimination must not be and that much more effort must be made, both in return and in the integration of the refugees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39222	Twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Skrbic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39223	I thank you for the accepted amendment, but I would like to say a few words, to point out from the practices that currently have evasive and exiled faces. Maybe it's because I've been in local self-government for a long time, maybe because I'm right out of the city of Apatino, where in the time of refugees every 3.6 residents at that time were exiled and avoided their face. I've been in the community for a long time, and I know what the problems were then, which are in the meantime and now, and I know that the government could have done a lot of things she promised, and it's not like that exactly. That's why I suggested the amendment to move the deadline to 90 days instead of 30 days for the collection of these documents, and that's accepted, which is good. I'll give you examples of what hasn't been done. Maybe you could use some other things. The competent authorities in Serbia should have reviewed the procedures for obtaining personal documents and introduced early simplification and clear procedures for internally displaced persons, removing all unnecessary bureaucratic and administrative obstacles. It is necessary to simplify administrative procedures in a way that would correspond specifically to the difficulties of a person without documents, which are in status, I would say, unknown, which refers to the Roma. We are always talking about displaced and avoided or forced displaced persons, and nobody mentions Roma who do not have their own documents, who have also been exiled and avoided persons from the territory of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. There's a lot of them in my midst, they don't have any documents, they don't know where to apply, so they come into the community, into the commissary, so when they come to the counters, they just don't get it, when they get the list of documents they need to deliver to get the ID, they just can't get it. That's what should be taken care of, under emergency, and it's not done. It is a long process of obtaining these necessary documents in order to surrender, join, obtain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia or some other necessary documents. I'll give you an example of a family that's been coming to the municipality for a long time, which is complaining, I tried to intervene through the authorities, however, nothing. In 2002, they were displaced to Germany, one from Croatia, one from Bosnia, where they were taken and returned to Republika Srpska, married, later came to live in Apatin, had children and sought citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. They didn't even get it today. Further documents were requested, they were delivered, there were no replies again, there were simply, for eight years, waiting for papers. All this depends on many factors, and one of the main ones is police administrations that are not even in all municipalities. So somewhere they go to meet, somewhere they urinate themselves, they pass those papers quickly, but somewhere they don't. I'm going to give you an example and abuse of certain things when refugees are concerned, it's "the regional government", ladies and gentlemen, who, a few years ago, has called a competition for the purchase of abandoned houses, in principle one to one or one to the refugee dinar, and one to "government" or the circuit fund, and then some to pay, etc., favourable conditions, but then, at one point, it's said like this -- you can't buy a house in Sviloje, where the population is a mixed population, you can go to Prigravica, I quote the exact names, where the pure Serb population is, only there you can buy by that principle. There are abandoned households, and these abandoned households are 100% more expensive than in this smaller village. We received the answer – not to disturb the national structure, so you cannot buy, and is not allowed in Svilojev, which is mixed, where it is a majority Hungarian animal. There are many abandoned houses in this Sviloy, which are, I say, a hundred percent cheaper, therefore, these households, than in that other village where they are more expensive. That's not good. What does that have to do with anything? I suppose it is better for us to live together in this society and in this day and age, not only Serbs, especially Hungarians, but to mix the population for the benefit of this country and all its inhabitants. That's what I was just about to point out. I don't know, I got a little more time, I got three minutes, about? Mr. Minister, you might be able to influence some things, just in terms of speeding up and facilitating the refugee registration process into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. We of the SRS recommend to the competent ministry that when advertising requests for admission to citizenship to refugees give priority, why not, and to level the practice, I said just now, local police administrations regarding admission requests for citizenship, therefore, exclusively through the Ministry of the Interior. There are a lot of things that other ministries have to do, say, to allow internally displaced persons to apply for a personal card across their place of residence, so the Serbian authorities should amend existing laws on administrative procedure and establish a new out-of-party procedure for determining birth facts, through the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the justice ministry, the police ministry, etc. We recommend that we from the SRS, and we have tried this before through our amendments, discussions, to draw attention to all the resolution ministries, to some of the issues concerning refugees. I see, now, lately, that he's in a good mood that when it comes to such topics, no matter who's from which parliamentary group. So some of our amendments have been accepted here in this part of the amendments and the addition of the law. Through many institutions, the Law on residence and residence should also be reviewed and some other relevant laws should be amended, with a view to enabling these exiles, exiles to come to some status here in this country. However, there are those who have managed well, who live well, but many still walk along the street and talk to themselves, which is sad and sad after 20 years. I repeat again, it is not only about exiles from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, only Serbs, but also about Roma and other people who had to move under pressure from those parts, from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska and KIM. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39224	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, this concludes the search of the bill in particular, and after we have finished, on the basis of Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, does the Proposer's representative want a final word? (No) National MP Mico Rogovic. You are not registered in the electronic system in time, but you have the right to use the time of the parliamentary group and the time of the authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39225	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't want to take much time. At the end of today's debate on the amendment and addition of the Refugees Act, I would just like to conclude one fact, no matter which side we come from, from the right, left, this Parliament, from the position, the opposition, on these issues, there were no different views, in principle, nor in the discussion of the details, and that this issue is still the cancer of this society. The refugee crisis in Serbia has been going on for 17 years, it is long and therefore we are in 13th place in the world, and the first in Europe, and here some war conflicts began in 1992. The last aggression was in 1999 and still in Serbia we have in the category of refugees 86,000 and according to the government's intentions if we solve it annually, especially the residential part, i.e. the burning existential issue of this category, i.e. the population, with a thousand dwellings, this means that this process of the long-term refugee crisis in Serbia will last another 86 years. On the other hand, in the environment, we have the Republic of Croatia with which we still have, as you say, open issues, but the open issues have been extended to the wolf for years, and it only costs this population of people, given the fact that 120,000 people of Croatian nationality from BiH have moved to live in Croatia and have usurped mainly the Serb apartments that lived in them. We know it happened in the late '90s. These conflicts and all that was going on during that period conditioned that the million and 300 people mentioned in Serbia could not buy their apartments because of the troubles they had to leave their hearths and their dwellings, so they were put into a situation that after 17 years in Serbia they were still in refugee status. We need to find another moduso, given the offensive that has failed both by our side and by the international organisation. The task of this government, the task of all governments was and should be, and it really should be done seriously in the most recent period, that the problems of 86,000 of these people, as you said, not integrated into the Republic of Serbia, into the social life of the Republic of Serbia, be solved as soon as possible. The way you suggest, a thousand apartments a year, it'll take a really long time. That's why I told you, in principle debate, that part of the problem, especially regarding a member of this 19th law, should be resolved by amendments to the Social Housing Act. That's what we all agreed on, both the position and the opposition. We recently had that law. He did not cover the area, but it is high time they changed and added to this category of face in the law mentioned here they saw the light of this home, as soon as possible, so that the problems of these faces would be solved as soon as possible. One in this face category, I have to remind you one more time of his sentence, says this: I can still dream of the ends I came from and there no one accepts me to come back, and here I'm still unacceptable. In the category of these 86 thousand people, they're mostly the most poor, sick, old people. I apologize for citing the word of one of them, that refugees in Serbia will disappear if we wait for them to, unfortunately, die. We really shouldn't allow it, and we need to make a draft of the social housing bill as soon as possible, to solve this face category's problems as soon as possible. You're aware and we know for a fact that humanitarian aid is getting smaller and smaller, that collective centres are closing more and more, that these people have nowhere to go, that they're literally left to themselves and they have no place to go back. What is it that concerns me, on the other hand, and in this House, fortunately, there are MPs, in quite a solid number, who have come to Serbia in part and as refugees, and in part as internally displaced persons, Mr Minister, about the problem of internally displaced persons, no one is speaking, other than the Commissioner, what about that category of faces? What legal framework should their status be resolved? They are indeed Serbian citizens, but Serbian citizens in Serbia cannot return to their hearths and cannot use what they have acquired for years. I note once again that in this category there are 86,000 refugees and over 200,000 internally displaced persons, people, who are mere poor. It can't be a parol. It can't be a dinar. It can only be fully and 100% of the state's participation. Are these over 200,000 people with kim supposed to be invisible to all of us? And in that segment, there are more unresolved problems in that category than in the refugee category. All together, we must find strength, hopefully, in the coming period to solve problems and those categories of people, although they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but citizens who do not have their own hearth and who do not have the right to return to their hearths. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39226	Six minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) I repeat the question to the proposing representative, Minister Chiplic, do you want the final word? (No) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break. We're finishing the morning session. The work continues this afternoon at 15.45 minutes. Thank you. [[After break – 16:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. First, the notice of the invited to the session. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Mr. Verice Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, and Mr. Jasna Matic, Minister for Telecommunications and Information Society, has called for the meeting to attend: Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Dejan Radulović, Advisor at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Director of the Agency for Privatisation and Branka Radović, Adviser at the Agency for Privatisation. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Aleksandra Ilic, Zlata Đerić, Nemanja Sarović, Dragan Stevanović, Bojan Mladenovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljna Miladović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Radić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučetata Toštimović, Draga Šlovar, Draga Šlovar and Vladrić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before I give my word on the amendment to Article 1, I remind you that representatives of the parliamentary groups of 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda are authorised: MP Zoran Kasalović – MEP Group of SPS-JS, MP Slobodan Samardzic – MEP of the DSS, MP Dragan Stevanović – MEP of the SRS and MP Branka Ljiljak – MEP of the ZES Group. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39228	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 1, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the law is deleted. By abandoning the area from the existing law, it is clear that the Regionalisation Act is transformed into a centralised law rather than a decentralisation and thus, in fact, into its opposite. I must stress that the proposed law on amendments and additions of the Law on Regional Development from the same government to which the proposal was passed in half of last year by the parliamentary majority, best talks about the credibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as when the ruling coalition passed the law, and by changing the same now, hastily imposing solutions that are not generally addressed by the core of the problem, i.e. the equal development and decentralisation of Serbia. Article 3 of the existing Regional Development Act sets out the principles to encourage regional development and point 5 of point 1 of Article 1) of the Treaty, which implies the planning of regional development on the basis of development documents at the republic, regional, regional and local level. So, why bother the district level now and suggest erasing it? Furthermore, Article 3 of the existing Regional Development Act in point 6 of point 1 states the principle of subsidiarity, which refers to decentralisation in the performance of the work of preparation, implementation and supervision of programmes to promote regional development at regional, district and local level, with the prior provision of institutional and human resources, i.e. human resources. Why does it bother the district level now and suggest erasing it? In addition, Article 3 of the existing Regional Development Act in point 11 of point 1 cited the principle of equality of regional development, which refers to encouraging the rapid development of underdeveloped regions, areas and units of local self-government. Why now it bothers to encourage underdeveloped areas at the level of the area and proposes to delete it. Although in the existing Regional Development Act, the statistical functional territorial continent has been established for the purposes of planning and implementing regional development policy, why is it deleted in this law on amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act despite the unchangeable criteria that existed in the adoption of the law that is now being amended, after not a full year? It is obvious that the participation and impact of the area on making important decisions is completely eliminated, and where is the decentralisation that is so talked about as necessary in the further development of the system? Therefore, this amendment is proposed to delete the law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39229	A minute and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to point out one fact at the very beginning. The amendments submitted by the SRS to the proposal for a basic version of this law are quite different from the amendments that we have submitted to the text of the Law amending and supplementing the law, not because the party has changed its position and attitude towards the concept of regionalisation, obviously, which is represented by the Government, but because of the fact that these 126 MPs who will vote for this will appear to be gathered. We have tried to make these amendments, and what you will adopt very tendingly, we call this law because we believe it will produce the same effects that the previous law has produced, which it has not experienced in practice, and, unfortunately, we are changing it today. We could understand that we are changing it based on experience, based on some of the problems that were in practice present and obvious, but we are changing it and in the background of these changes are purely political reasons. In the process of principled debate, the government's representative then tried, even to honour the SRS to advocate the formation of national regions. That's really not true. We are in favour of even regional development, and that does not mean regionalisation, as defined by the legislator in this law. It is a very interesting thing and it is promoting and showing political pragmatism to those who represent the government in a certain situation, irrelevantly, whether you or someone else, Mrs Kalanovic, and that we are grasping at some point how they suit us. When we talked about the basic version of the law, all those who said it was regionalisation, the minister personally corrected them. This is a law on regional development. Since these changes and additions entered the procedure, as we speak, almost all MPs have been talking about regionalisation and there is no response to such a finding. We believe that two completely different things are regional and even regional development and regionalisation, and that regionalisation is a pure political story, and that this should be isolated from politics, to be left to science, to profession, to what we really have, but through this law will not be properly applied and put into function of even regional development. It seems to us that this is actually the law in trying. The promoter wanted to answer, after all, in the debate in principle, we really didn't get an answer until the end of the debate, which is the real reason for this law, I don't believe we're going to get it now, until the end of the debate in particular. It is obvious that it is a response to the tendencies of certain local and regional parties to abuse, that is, they have gathered the courage to express how they recognized the concept of the law that you are changing today and defined by regional development, and then you gave a very vague, very superficial answer to that. It seems to me that both in the plan and in terms of documents, they will produce problems, that they will not live. I'm just going to give you one example, he's referring to Article 14. In point 2, you say, "The Regional Development Documents are one of the starting points for drawing up spatial planning documents," and in the following point, you say, "The development documents of regional development are drawn up in accordance with the current spatial planning documents. 'Now, the development papers serve to make spatial plans, and then the development papers are done on the basis of spatial plans?- I'm sorry. In the debate in principle, we pointed out that this must solely be based on development documents and no intention of territorial cohesion, balance, must mean drawing borders. You and this law have not completely wiped out the presence of a political character of regionalisation, i.e. you continue to mean regions. That's not good. And a completely different context in the spirit of regional development has "states" when they go through such a political base, and they have a completely different position and position of the area when they define themselves through development documents, i.e. through spatial plans or lower order documents that arise from them. And it's a danger, and it's dangerous, because this will recognize the same thing that's recognized in the first version of the law and, unfortunately, this law won't see the light of day, or apply it, and we'll get into a situation to pull it back or change it again, or to re-adopt some new law. The SRS believes that the only rational move was to withdraw from applying the basic version of the law, to sit down with the one who manages or participates in the government today and to provide general political consensus and general political support to support the concept of balanced regional development. Without such an approach to balanced development in the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's regional development, balanced, will not experience. And what's controversial, and what's the essence of all of this, is that such serious things can't be accessed on the basis of day-to-day political commitment and determinations. These are things that can't be answered shrizzly from today to tomorrow. These are things, and unfortunately there is nothing of it, where Serbia must or can be recognized in the next five or ten years. And we're going to be very specific about certain things of this law through the next amendments that we expect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39231	Four minutes from authorized representative. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39232	In the capacity of authority, too. So, nine months after the adoption of the Regional Development Act, we have amendments and additions. They're not saying anything. As much as there were no valid reasons for the concept of seven statistical regions, there is no valid reason nor for the concept of five statistical regions, where four Central Serbian regions are turned into only two. To make this clearer to my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and also to the public of Serbia, who I hope is watching, I will try to explain it in a very simple way. What was supposed to be the object of a law like this? It was intended to be defined or, at the very least, to be determined statistical regions, which do not have any other function in particular, except to facilitate the country's communication with certain continents in order to achieve a balanced regional development, and that this can be done with pre-accession EU funds at the time when Serbia becomes a candidate, so that pre-accession EU funds can recognise the continents defined by the state itself, in order to establish communication with parts of the state, so as not to create a balanced development of these continents. How do you do that? It can be achieved in two ways, one by law, as could be the case, here. The second is to make a decree, so that the executive authority is. According to the criteria laid down by the law, the government has set statistical regions, that it adheres to them and that all communication with pre-accession EU funds is later on based on these rules. The story of its very structure is basically harmless. She has no danger in herself. Not only should he not be in danger, but he should be doing some good, right? What's going on with you, what you suggested to us nine months ago and adopted, and what you're doing right now is quite the opposite. The point of statistical regions, given that there are several standards there as they can be determined, according to the number of inhabitants, according to the situation, etc., according to the number of inhabitants in those regions, is to make it easier to carry out the entire business of equal development in the country. If you say there are only seven regions, one is equal to an autonomous province, and then you completely delineate the other regions, according to some specific borders, still undefined, calling them eastern, southern, etc. Serbia, and now you change that, too, without any criteria, then questions are raised – is everything you see within one statistical region, starting from municipalities to cities, their position, all uniformly developed? Well, more logic and more sense makes more statistical regions in order to fulfil the task the state is planning. Now, where's the whole dance here? It's easy to see. Take a stenogram note and see what kind of explanation of this law, on amendments and additions to the law, given by Minister Dinkic, see what kind of reasoning was last year when the basic text of this law was adopted and you will see that the main story is not at all about statistical regions that have unitary states in the EU. Statistical regions have unitary states in the EU, which have no idea about the Federation, and these statistical regions have no political power, either for themselves, or have, say, a legitimate function. None! You only have two countries in the EU, Italy and Spain, where the principle of regionalisation is something other than federalism and that have its own political meaning. This is where we go through, for small Serbia, which without KiM has seven million inhabitants, the idea of regionalisation that has political content. When we told you that the regionalization that you advocate with this law had no meaning that this law should bear with it, but that it had political content, you made fun of us. Then we told you that the arches by which you are so-called. The statistical regions here have made, in fact, the arches of future changes to the Constitution and the federalisation of Serbia. Then it was -- no, no, that's not true. You're deliberately interpreting it. And here is proof for you: after nine months you bring amendments and additions to the law, and then it was flawed, because there was nothing in the explanation for which one region is statistical, as you have suggested. We are now getting a reduction for two statistical regions, without any explanation, and the whole public in Serbia knows that because the Bosniak parties or the Muslim Sandzak party, or their political representatives better decided that they do not like their settlements, as they see them, being divided between the two statistical regions, well, what difference does it have, their cities and municipalities where they have most of the population, to be more precise. They don't like that! Then they delivered the request where they needed it, the Democratic Party, and then it responded by making that map, which was not even made, de facto, change, through amendments and additions to the law. Anything else you have suggested in these amendments and additions may be of any kind. None! This is the only meaning of what you've done here. So now you're going to convince us that you've passed a law on statistical regions? Well, you can't convince us because, first of all, we've heard from the Secretary-General differently, and we have no reason not to believe him, that this is the introduction to regionalization. Maybe that's okay. Here, change the Constitution. Two-thirds of the MPs of change must accept. The citizens' referendum is required under the current constitution, for such a kind of change of state order. Here, do it, advocate that option. That's legitimate. You can also advocate federalisation if you want, but don't, I don't mind it, I don't agree with that, as I believe most Serbian citizens disagree, but I can't blame you, but at least say it publicly. Don't give us a story about statistical regions. Release us from that pressure. Change the law that exists. Make statistical regions specific. Make it 15, 16, 17, how rational it is to have in Serbia, according to the rules of the game that allow it, according to European standards. Do what is necessary to help these statistical regions regional development of Serbia. The government can make them specific, if you are unable to legislate them, and then think about Serbia's regionalisation in a political sense. Separate those two stories. Don't put them together in the same basket as you do in this case, because then we don't know what you're defending yourself from when we attack you with the basis that this is political law, not economic development law. Then you defend yourself and say -- no, it's statistical regions, and then in the arguments that you give out of them, it unequivocally states that it is the lobby of Serbia's political division. It would be good for you to be clear about all this. It would be good if you didn't distract the MPs, your colleagues, your ex, you were in the Assembly before, not personally, but Mladjan Dinkic, even if he was one day, doesn't matter at all, it's not right for people from the ruling majority, to have to suffer it. We need to go out with clear solutions in front of people and tell them what the point of the story is, and not like this, we have to prove to you in public what you wanted to do, that you're denying it, so, then, again, to confirm, that we've been chasing each other for months, like a cat with a mouse, and that eventually it turns out, exactly as we've been saying, what is our goal and your mission in this whole business. That's not fair. That's not correct. You didn't make a law that ends a job, which is why a law like this should be passed, because if it were, this would be applicable. This is absolutely inadmissible. Perhaps it is true what Mr Dinkic said, that in a given case these regional agencies will not withdraw any more administrations, commit more administrations than this is currently the case, but where is the reduction of the administration in the state? I'm sure that won't come. So this is one of those laws that actually blocks the state's discharging processes from the administration. This is not necessary for Serbia in this way. I deeply believe Serbia does not need a federal state. Serbia does not need federal units. We don't need the Republic of Vojvodina, you're on a very good path to achieve it, as I see it, through that statute and that strange law, which is unconstitutional, which the Assembly adopted. We don't need a "joy republic" or anything like that. Whoever thinks he needs it, go out with it openly, fight for it politically, and we'll see what the citizens of Serbia say. Just please, don't lie and distract the citizens of Serbia, explain to them that something is going on here that isn't happening. That's what's very important to say. Therefore, you are masters of persifage. That's what you're trying to do with this law right now, but it just won't work out. As much as this is talked about, it's very easy to explain what's going on. So, you do not achieve the goal for which this law should be passed, and of course you present another goal that has not yet been realised, which is either hidden or, even, according to Dinkic's words, and an open political goal, which is harmful to Serbia. So this is all that's happening in front of us. There's no other content of all this. Therefore, you do whatever you know and can, but there must be someone who will publicly tell people what's going on here. This must be done in order to awaken awareness with the people, with the citizens, with what you are planning, and with what you are setting him up to do, so that this same people and those same citizens will fight against it. It is our duty as messengers of the people, and we will do so in the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39233	11 minutes and 45 seconds were used. I must warn that the amendment (Article 2) submitted by my colleague Stevanovic refers to the addition of a new item 1 to which the words "planning and" are deleted in Article 4(2), and so far in Article 1 and 2 are becoming pages 2 and 3. That's the darkness. Mr Meso Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39234	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, thank you. The previous speaker, Honorable counterpart Aligrudic, was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which speaks about how MPs must treat each other with respect, and the same applies to the dignity of this high home, which we call the Republika Srpska Assembly. Mr. Aligrudić, you have, with full right of critical, though, unprincipled, talked about your party's findings, about statistical regions, which does not correspond to the truth, because at a time when Vojislav Kostunica was Prime Minister, the Government's programme was somewhat similar when it comes to statistical regions. It's a problem that you have with you and I wouldn't go into that conflict between yourselves, but what you said at one point, you may not even know what you said. You have attached a label to the people living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that this law and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that changed it nine months later, that it was done because of pressure from Bosniaks and Bosniak national parties, because they live in some settlements. That's, quote, what you said. Mr. Aligrudić, I know that your party is an archaic party and you have the right to use archaic language and speech, because you cultivate similar traditions, but I ask you not to place Bosniaks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because Bosniaks live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, living, thank God, in all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There are more of them in the municipalities you call Sandzak, in Novi Pazar, in Priboj, in Prijepolje, in Sjenica and Tutin. Unless you think these municipalities are part of the Republic of Serbia, so, unlike Serbs and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Bosniaks live in municipalities, on the territory of the Republic of Serbia which are local self-government and which are local communities. So, just an explanation. I would ask you not to use terms that are not acceptable, especially which are not in accordance with the law and with the Constitution. You'll allow me, I'm not a lawyer, and you're a party that has a lot of lawyers and is often called for by law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39235	Two minutes and 23 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39236	Mr. Omerovic, you're right. I'm really sorry. It's possible the term was very inappropriate and unfortunate. I apologize not only to you, but to anyone who could have interpreted it that way. It wasn't really my intention. In that sense, I also apologize to all Bosniaks living in Raska territory or anywhere in Serbia who would possibly interpret it that way. It's some kind of lapus, with no evil intentions whatsoever. As for the other things you said, first of all, you don't know anything about the DSS program. It's obviously from what you just said, because you have no idea what statistical regions are, in some sense, in which it was planned, when the DSS was participating in the government, how they were represented or how they were done. In fact, we haven't come to that legal proposal yet. The legislative proposal in this form, which appeared to parliament nine months ago, was made in a later period. So, it would never occur to us, at a time when we were in government, that we would send to the National Assembly of Serbia such a legislative proposal, in which no excess will be found in the reasoning of the text as to why these regions have as many as there are, which is why they are called, which is why so geographically, in relation to the territory of Serbia, are determined to do so. So that's what we're talking about, that it doesn't make any sense and, of course, that the apologetics of this law, on the side of those who feel the duty to defend it, has its own cavity. If it didn't have a cavity, we wouldn't have talked about it this way. That's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39237	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic. Please, if we agreed to respect the Rules of Procedure, because I do not confess other arrangements, then Mrs. Kalanovic has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39238	Thank you. I'd like to start with a few quotes. One of the previous MPs has spoken a sentence, which I deeply support – just please do not lie and distract the citizens of Serbia. And, also, by quote, since you know what statistical regions are and since you, Mr. Aligrudic, I assume you know what statistical regions are, your pledge for 17 to 18 regions in Serbia is not possible. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: I did not say 17 and 18) What you just said, unfortunately, can be checked in the stenogram. For those who know what statistical regions are, they must know that statistical regions – those territories that cover up to 800,000 inhabitants, and that 17 to 18 regions, unfortunately, are not possible to have in Serbia, given the total number of inhabitants. I will also repeat many times that statistical regions, as they are, are symmetrical, comparable and can be monitored, not only the degree of development of a uniform methodology, but can also be monitored for progress in their development. Because to pass the Regional Development Act is nothing more than to define what the region is and therefore I am surprised to ask the question of regionalisation in the Regional Development Act. Define the Regional Development Act, and let me remind you, we are the last country in Europe that does not have it, and not define what the region is and what kind of region is – is hypocritical. It's not possible to pass a law on regional development for something that doesn't know what it is. Defining the development of the region is possible to define through a process, which is monitored over a longer period of time, through measures and incentives of the state, in order to identify all those things that the state is doing from a central but also from a regional level, in order to balance development in both the country in general and in the regions. And what is the specificity of the Law on Regional Development – it is that, because of the large regional differences present in Serbia, the introduction and measurement of the degrees of development of municipalities and cities in Serbia and the classification of municipalities and cities of Serbia into four groups, in order to further affect more even regional development and equalisation of the development of those who need it most. Furthermore, when we say – the meaning of statistical regions is easier to carry out these tasks, it is true, and towards the adoption of strategic documents, and towards the definition of institutions, and towards defining those measures and incentives which the Republic, as responsible for the standard of its countries, must foresee in some time period. But if we say -- we understand that statistical regions should be formed because of the need to compete for pre-accession funds, then we do not realize at all that already at this moment the state of Serbia has funds, which are far more modest, because of the general situation in which Serbia is located, but which use some procedures and means of identifying the funds that are completely identical to the European Union funds. And if we look at today's distribution, in the end, and the projects of the Ministry of National Investment Plan, which I am the head of, but how subsidies and stimulants for investors are defined, for the unemployed, interest rates for loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is also taking into account the degree of development of municipalities and cities, and for God's sake, the entire regions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39239	I thank you, and I ask the MPs not to earn it. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39240	Madam Minister, I don't see you saying anything different from what I was saying. We're the only ones in the connotation who don't understand each other. So this hyperbole of 17, 18, from what you remember, I may have said that, but it was a figure of speech. Of course I don't think it should be 17, 18, regions, because it would certainly be a more logical tendency to increase, but decreases, you know? Jus-standards that talk about being 800,000 minimums, they're standards that we have to fit in if we want to communicate with those pre-accession funds that we're talking about, and if it's about domestic funds, we don't have any such obligation. Then, in that theory, it doesn't matter whether we follow that standard. We must adhere to the figure that meets our criteria for assessing the degree of development, which we can do with our resources, if we ignore this fact that we need pre-accession EU funds. Since we can't ignore it, it's natural that we have to fit into a system. But all of what you said, from beginning to end, shouldn't be at all controversial, nor is it any object of dispute between you and me, that's what this is about. The subject of the dispute is in the following – we are deeply convinced that the way in which regions are defined here, as statistical regions, whose definition cannot be disputed, is formally correct, that it has its second political meaning, which has been shown countless times on several levels. One, President Boris Tadic announced the country's regionalisation, in terms of changes in state order. So it has nothing to do with this law, and you have no problem here as a minister representing this law in a formal sense. He announced it. So, miraculously, seven regions appear, equal to the number Boris Tadic advocates for regionalisation, in a political sense, the state, that is, appears in the Regional Development Act – this is, interestingly, a match. Then the figure moves, it decreases from seven to five, because it is clear to all people that one problem, one pressure, which suffers from certain political parties -- is to reduce the number for certain political reasons. So that leads us to think, and not without a basis, that here we are not talking about criteria that have its economic meaning at all, but about the political criteria for changing the text of the Law in this part, which decreases from seven to five. That's obvious. You can say anything else now. No, no, no, we saw this thing one way nine months ago, and we didn't get the parameters right, and in the meantime, we calculated it a little bit better, and we saw it wasn't supposed to be that way. That might sound convincing to you, you can try to present it convincing, but it's not really convincing, that's what it's about. It's more convincing than that, because it's true after all. That's the difference between you and me. Now you can say it's not like that, and I can say it's like I say it is, but in what you just said to me, when you answered, I don't see the difference between you and me. I see it the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39241	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. There's a minister's word. Here you go, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39242	When we don't have enough arguments in the law, then we catch up with politics and then we say yes, but subregion. I'm really interested in where you read sub-communication, which appears in the Regional Development Act Yes, but what will be the capital of the statistical region? And the capital of the statistical region does not exist. Yes, but the environment will collapse – well, of course they are completely different topics of the environment, which defines the Law on Territorial Organization and the Law on Regional Development, which defines what we were just talking about. Yeah, but now we're gonna go from Chaetina to Uzice, suddenly turn to Kragujevac. These are stories we have heard in the past few months in response to the Regional Development Act. All those who want to seek political interpretation of the Regional Development Act will have to sink into another law on regional development. The Regional Development Act has no political objectives, it is not political, the Regional Development Act only treats what Serbia needs most at the moment, and that is: regional development, money unification, competence, development, state support in certain parts of Serbia, so that Serbia will not be as it is now, with such different levels of development, with such different standards in the lives of citizens, so that the state of Serbia can intervene in the right way. And that's what you're going to find in this bill, with a number of regional agencies, with economic development, with statistical regions, with a preparation for pre-accession funds, with preparations for opening possible offices. There, that's what you'll be treating this law. Politics? Yeah, and that's important, but you're gonna have to do it somewhere else with some other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39243	Thank you. Mr Milivojevic Srdjan answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39244	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People and citizens of Serbia, I have a big misunderstanding. I don't understand what certain political parties want to tell us. When we had seven regions, it wasn't good, it was bad. When we have five regions, it's no good again. Then I've got style figures that bid the numbers 13, 14, 15, 17. On the other hand, when it is said that one statistical region should have at least eight hundred thousand inhabitants, 17 regions are again predicted. I would very much like for Serbia to have 20 million inhabitants for the next ten years, but I don't think that's realistic. When Mr. Nikola Pasic, the president of this country's government, was asked, for a while, and he wasn't exactly a eloquent man – excuse me, Mr. Pasic, what is the difference between demagogy and criticism? Mr. Nikola Pasic said – criticism is good, and when the government is criticised it is good, but it is good that criticism implies certain solutions. If I were to say it now -- it's not good for my tie because it's red, it would be better if it were yellow, it would be a certain solution. But Mr Pasic said – there is a big difference between criticism and demagogy. Demagogy doesn't offer solutions, but it is very much liked by voters, but it is very dangerous, because demagogy as such only stirs dissatisfaction, leads voters, but offers no solution. There's a big difference between demagogy and real criticism. Since I don't see and hear criticism here, but I see an attempt to pass on to someone and I see an attempt in certain parts of Serbia to sow fear that this regionalisation of Serbia and such a law on regional development will produce problems in the lives of the local population, the citizens of those regions, I see only a cheap attempt to make up for the missed time that someone had in power, had the opportunity to materialise and implement all their ideas, and did not, I see now an attempt to devalue Serbia's efforts to get modern and modern regions that meet European standards. If someone says – okay, we will have one region for European standards, which will count eight hundred thousand, but for some internal political needs we will have some other regions, it still has only demagogy as the basis of its political action. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39245	Two minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. You can contact within the time of the parliamentary group, there is no reason for replication. You'll get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39246	I am using these four remaining minutes as head of the parliamentary group, although you are mistaken for not giving me the replica of Verica Kalanovic's exposure, which directly referred to what I was saying, as I would have the right to have Mr Milivojevic exhibited earlier, however, it is not worth so much attention. So I've never mentioned in my presentation, or anyone from the DSS, any sub-communication, any cities that would represent the main cities of some regions in the country, so I don't know these things that you've memorized and written down, somewhere, where they've been heard, but some arguments in the discussion don't come from our parliamentary group. So forget it when it comes to communicating with me. You didn't have to use that communication. When, however, it is about bringing politics into this whole business and implementing demagogy and demagogue solutions, you are unbeatable. So, to convince you that this is true, that your arguments that you are trying to make, alleged arguments, to attach MPs to the opposition to engage in political demagogy, speaking of one allegedly concrete law, which is aimed at, my God, only regional development, take and read the stenographic notes of both of the speeches of Mladjan Dinkic, your party boss, which he held in this same assembly. It's an exact thing. So, take your stenographic notes and look at his interpretation of this law nine months ago and his interpretation of this law in this home when the changes and additions came. He's talking about political connotation. He talks about Serbia's regionalisation in political terms. Look!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39247	Mr. Aligruditch, you've used your time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) I suppose this much interest in the amendment surprised the motionary himself, Mr. Stevanovic. The People's MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 3rd amendment. The word is Miss Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39248	Article 3(1) The draft law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act is amended in Article 5(1) of the existing Regional Development Act. Instead of seven regions: The Region of Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the Western region, the Eastern region, the Central region, the South region and the region of Kosovo and the Metohija, provides five regions: the Region of Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia, the region of South and Eastern Serbia, the region of Kosovo and Metohija. I have proposed to amend that Article 1 of Article 3 of the present Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act. This proposal for a law, reducing the number of regions, ignores all relevant criteria only by one political decision without coverage. It meets the requirements of certain parties and ethnic groups, whose sole objective is to group and form territorial continents on a purely ethnic basis, in which they will be dominant. The economy and regional development ministry, headed by Minister Mladjan Dinkic, although the December map of statistical regions still lacked ink, suggested changing the Law on Regional Development and the number of statistical regions from seven to five. Amendments and additions to the Law are justified among other reasons, I quote – 'equaling the region by population', but the new creators of statistical regions did not explain how all of this was done by their experts and experts, as well as members of the government, did not know in December of last year when they adopted a map of seven regions of Serbia. The government, especially the Ministry of Economy, has always pointed out that the aim of the Law on Regional Development is not to divide and not group on a national basis, but to form statistical regions in the role of regional development and to make more effective use of EU pre-accession funds. It can be asked with full right to define statistical regions, if the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is looked at, in which the chapter of regional and local development states (quote) – "Every country itself determines its regional organisation, but the EU will only provide financial assistance to those regions that have political bodies chosen in direct elections, which have the authority to make essential decisions to give the region. '' (Completed quote) So, on one side, a statistical region that has no legal subjectivity that stands in the law, not in the Constitution, and in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is a region with defined territory, direct elections, its bodies, or executive authorities. The deadline for the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is late 2012. The question arises – when will we start using EU pre-accession funds? At this point, obviously, with this law on amendments and additions to the Regional Organisation Act, we do not meet these conditions. It is obvious that we are expected to have new conditions that we will have to meet unconditionally. Although the Law on regional development of Serbia has already been adopted on 8 July 2009, which divided Serbia into seven statistical regions, with criteria to determine which regions are developed, which are underdeveloped, as well as the formation of areas that make up these seven regions, and all in line with EU standards, with certain measures to promote regional development in terms of improving the economy, developing cities and municipalities, improving environmental protection and developing underdeveloped areas, what are these changes leading to, and what is yet to expect us to do? The only truth is that these fees are granted exclusively to Bosniak parties and their leaders and that all of this has absolutely nothing to do with economic reasons, as this has failedly explained. This is a purely political decision, without thinking about the consequences of such a decision, and it must be clear to this people. They must no longer wait for the consequences of unreasonable decisions and react only then, when the reaction has no effect anymore. Then, the only thing that can be determined is another one of our failures, and the ultimate question is, how long can all of this be suffered by the citizens of this country? It is necessary to look into the eyes and try to reach a reasonable agreement and agreement that is exclusively in the interests of all the citizens and the very state in which these citizens live. Bosniaks want autonomy on their own, and this is the way to achieve that goal, not taking into account what Serbs want. And both, and possibly third, must first understand reality and especially state interest. Is this government in this matter interested in the opinion of the Serbians of the Zlatibor County? They strongly oppose these amendments and additions to the Law on Regional Development, the Ministry of Economy, as the legislator of the law, has not consulted representatives of local self-government, nor the head of the district, nor has it found appropriate. None of the authorities were interested in the situation on the ground and what reactions citizens have to this amendment to the law, and the situation on the ground is worrying, and it is even more worrying that this authority does not care. The new Serbia has continued to warn that it is not justified to accept requirements that have conditioned this new regional end, as the law on statistical regions should lead to even regional development with already established legal criteria, not ethnic integration and grouping. European standards do not recognise the criteria of national membership in the formation of statistical regions, as their purpose is decentralisation and economic development. These new attitudes bring unnecessary and inadmissible calls of discord in the municipalities of the Zlatibor district, where there have been good international and good neighbourly relations for decades. We warn that the vote of this devastating law on amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act can cause major protests, civil disobedience, referendums and the inadmissible destabilision of this part of the state. Such reactions have already been announced in congregation decisions, conclusions, and declarations. The congregations of the municipalities of Priboj, Nova Varoš and Chatin adopted conclusions that have articulated the demands of citizens of the Zlatibor district, i.e. from Western Serbia, against the announced changes and additions, i.e. Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, under which Article 5th position 1 changes and two regions are joined in the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia. In addition, in Prijepolje, 5,000 citizens have expressed disagreement with the proposed law. The protests and actions of political parties, New Serbia, joined by both the SNS and the DSS, are already taking place in Uzic. At the same time, citizens of Užica express their signatures the strongest condemnation of government proposals for amendments to the Regional Development Act. It is a civil initiative without party markings, an action called "Let's show the Serbian government that we too are wondering". It should show what citizens really want and that citizens expect their government to do for the benefit of the citizens. More than 20,000 signatures have been collected in the Zlatibor County so far. Why this regionalisation, without public debate, without any consultation with local self-government, remains the proponent to answer and explain that. Why do you want to push through these solutions by an emergency procedure? How will you explain to the citizens of Western Serbia that the government better recognises their interests than themselves? It is clear to all that such a map of the region has hidden the blackmails of those of whom the government depends, it is only a matter of which price the ruling majority of such blackmail will accept. If that were the case, you can tell by Article 34. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act, where you propose four regional development agencies for the Shumadija region – Western Serbia, most of all other regions. This clearly suggests that one regional development agency should be in Novi Pazar, if that is enough, for starters. In addition to this, it must be pointed out that Serbia's constitutional obligation is to deal with even regional development. Thus, the state regulates and provides ''development of the Republic of Serbia, politics and measures to promote the even development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas... '" (quote Article 97, point 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). Where was the statistical region mentioned here?- I'm sorry. He's not in the Constitution. The question also arises – where are regional development agencies mentioned in the Constitution? These agencies will spend taxpayers' money, Serbian citizens and EU pre-accession funds. Who will run for projects to approve them and then implement them is clear to all citizens of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39249	The remaining time is a minute and 40 seconds from the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really pray that when we address the public, first of all to the public, we use the facts, because it's very difficult to endure in this place when a group of facts used in the wrong direction and abuse are heard, I don't know how to call abuse of the facts used to criticise this law. Let's remind first how EU funds are spent. You said until that moment until we were a member of the EU that defines statistical regions, etc. I remind you, we are the last country in Europe to pass a law on regional development. Also, I remind you that Slovenia passed the first law on regional development in 1991. I also remind you that Slovenia became a member of the EU in 2004, and only in 2008 had elections at regional level. Does anyone in this room really think that Slovenia didn't use EU funds until the regional elections? Don't plant it, it's not true, it's not facts, it's abuses. Another thing, do you, Miss, indeed, think that no one from the Republic Government has been in the Zlatibor region to see what political parties are doing and how they meet national hatred, using the Regional Development Act? (Some MPs in the hall resent) Of course I've been to a meeting of the entire Zlatibor County, with the presidents of the municipalities of the Zlatibor County. And this time I thank them. Thank them, they have more responsibility than it is here today. They know very well that there is no political background behind this. Some of them, who are not members of the ruling majority's parties, are members of the opposition, say yes, we have received from the central request to collect, but we will not. These presidents were at a meeting with me twice in the Zlatibor County and then, when they invited me to visit together projects that were very important for their lives, when we watched together a bridge being made in Prepolje, where the president of the municipality publicly says it was the biggest investment in infrastructure, in the period from World War II to today, where the President of the Priboj municipality said that he was rarely helped as Mladjan Dinkic in reviving "Fap" in Priboj and workers returning to his halls. Of course, it doesn't suit you today. I invite you, as MPs, to go to the Zlatibor County and see these posters and those paroles that the party fighters show on the streets today. But it's not a real echo from the field, those people want, of course, to still live there. These people, of course, are asking for the help of the state. They are looking for it through a regional development agency, which brings them experience in the development of the business incubator, seek through measures and incentives from the government. And, of course, that we are pleased to provide that help. (Some MPs disagreed in the O.R. during the speech by Minister Verice Kalanovic)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39251	Thank you. The word is Miss Alexander Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39252	And propo fact and abuse of facts, we also have the irrevocable resignation of Chiefs of Zlatiborski and Management, who has hereby declared himself against the amendment and addition of the Regional Development Act, because of all inconsistencies in the Law, which he considers to be harmful to the city of Uzica and the Zlatibor County. Also, because of all this, he left the G17 Plus party. As he himself pointed out in the media (quote) – '... Because I do not agree with the decisions of the party's summit and the concessions made out of various political interests. ''It was published in the list 'Today, 26 March 2010, entitled 'against the Government's proposal for five statistical regions'. In the text itself, in addition to the picture, his statement was quoted among other things – "The main reason for my resignations is to amend and supplement the Regionalisation Act, which was proposed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, in which my party colleagues are. '"Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39253	Thank you, too. The word is Mr Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39254	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I have to say what I said last time, to my dear colleague, Alexandra from Uzic. The district chief's resignation is purely technical, not a political issue. His resignation was delivered to the prime minister on February 10th of this year, and the government adopted the amendment and amendment of the law at its session on 11 March. His resignation is purely technical, not political. I know it's interesting to you in this debate, but you still have to accept it as a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39255	There is no breach of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure or the subject. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39256	Since this is an interesting amendment, but, well, I have no luck with the government's representatives, as soon as I take my word, I run away, what do we do? But, Mr. Novakovic, let me explain something about this amendment. The SRS has no obligation either to support this amendment or to remove the amendment. For the sake of the public, and when amendments are submitted, just to be clear, this is the law on amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act, we do not even imitate this law on amendments and additions, and neither does that basic text. I guess you get that. I think we need to explain what this attitude is about. Of course, balanced regional development is the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Serbia, but the Republic of Serbia. This story of statistical regions, criteria, EU standards, also exists. Nobody slows it down. Just to remind you, you have said in the light of this law – you are going to this amendment and supplement to be able to use EU access funds for 15, 20 years. And, of course, by the logic of things, a political topic is immediately opening up. This law is a political regulation, however formalized it is with some supposed criteria, standards that apply. The question is whether they are still in force in the EU, as each country applies these criteria autonomously. That's why we don't want to participate in this story. In this story we see preparation for something that can be very dangerous and ugly across the Republic of Serbia. We want to be a centralised state like France. If France does not meet European criteria, then let's not meet those European criteria either. Otherwise, there are interesting proposals here – about 20 regions. It's probably in these 20 regions, according to these standards of eight hundred thousand to two million people, there's also some region of Knin, Petrinja, etc. That's interesting to us, of course. You know I've been talking about regionalization in a European model ever since. The modern Euro-Region "Great Serbia", what's wrong? The same language, the same economy, the same people, compatible economies, etc. [[Applause]] Of course, I'll be accused of great Serbian hegemonism, but why you've accused me of everything, that's the least you can charge me with. Please, when you mention Nikola Pasic, you from the DS, call Grol, Davidovic, Micunović, some others, do not call on ours. How do these Democrats find cover for their political platform in SRS ideology? I'll praise you every time you guess. The other day, I also praised the Shooter. I'll commend you all when you accept the ideologies of the SRS, but be careful, you know. You'd better take care of why those cattle died in the truck against the Arangelian. Take a little check, which is a piece of artificial fertilizer, 50 tons each, on Saturday. Take care of what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, and take care of it. Otherwise, as for our attitudes, we are pleased when you are too late to accept our position. We do not dispute, and last time in the principle debate we said – yes, something is used by the European Statistical Monitoring Organisation, etc. However, it is premature for Serbia. Absolutely premature for Serbia. Why? Because there are still strong political tensions in the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you, someone in the Serbian political elite is already making an agreement that four municipalities in KIM belong to Serbia and that the rest should be divided and become an independent Kosovo. It's those messiahs who swear to voters. They use every opportunity to trick voters. It's ours as an SRS to sharply criticise, to warn in time, to say in time. Of course you don't accept that. After a few years, there is an ex-post mind, and then I need to commend you for your ex-wiseness, but also to warn you and to inform the public that, in the meantime, the adverse consequences have occurred. You just heard, in the Association Agreement, there is also a point of regionalization. We were against that agreement. You saw for yourself and the acceptance of the agreement did not prevent 22 countries, out of the 27 that make up the EU, from recognising an independent Kosovo. Now you are salting the issue, purely politically, where centripetal and centrifugal forces are emerging that have a significant impact on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Now these stories are coming – someone is inciting national hatred, someone wants to tailor regions as they wish, etc. We're against it. Please, dear citizens, we are both against the law and against the amendments and additions. We have submitted amendments just to remind the public of our political views that we haven't changed in 20 years. If France is not a democratic state, then Serbia should not be a democratic state either. It's the same principle -- a highly developed centralised state -- that's what we want to be in Serbia. If it meets these EU requirements, we probably do, too. Now a new principle is being promoted here – give that money from abroad, access funds, let's organize it to use money. Where's the money going to end? So far, 35% of all the money that came from abroad has ended up abroad. How? Consuling services, consulting services, payment services, etc. etc. Why are you increasing your obligations to the citizens? Take care. We have to take care of both children and grandchildren, of the puppies. We are disgusted with such standards that Serbia is failing as a state. Take care. And, please, Mr. Novakovic, with these things we have nothing to do with it, for the record! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39257	From the time of the parliamentary group, six minutes and 45 seconds. All right, here's the deal. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, here you go, well, Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39258	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I do not understand the idea that Serbia's regionalisation is being implemented through the "Greater Serbia" project, because I do not know how Serbia's border project is going to be implemented on the border of Karlovac-Carlobeg-Ogulin- Virovitica, whether it is a referendum in Croatia where people are going to withdraw to that border or implemented by some policy that will result in the whole of Serbia having a population for one statistical region, so it is really not clear to me and it would be good for us to have closer clarifications of that policy. When we talk about the legacy of this country, about the historical personalities of this country, I think that Nikola Pasic as Prime Minister now, if he could get out of the grave, he'd probably ask -- let's see, let's see, I created this country, let's see, who then grabbed some name that I brought into Serbia's political life, and what he did with that country. As a radical, I entered a conscious Kosovo in 1912, after the First and Second Balkan Wars, so let's see what those who use that name did today. Well, so, whether Pasic is mine or not, or belongs to all of us, I do not want to discuss, as I do not want to discuss the range and achievements of the policy of one Slobodan Jovanovic, Mr Grol or the predecessor who inherited the name DS. But I do know for sure, and I'm pretty sure Nikola Pasic was a very thrifty man and he was looking for when they buried him to bury him in a narrow coffin, that he didn't have to turn around in the grave when he saw who today is called the name he brought into the political life of the radical. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39259	Freedom of speech. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric, so Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39260	Ms. Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which they have proposed to delete Article 3(1), and I believe that the amendment should be accepted. Now I'm gonna say why. I'm sorry that Mrs Kalanovic isn't in the O.R. right now, so let me put some facts forward, or deny the so-called. The facts she presented here on several occasions and when there was a debate in principle, and also today when the debate is in particular. Mrs. Kalanovic is talking about how we are the last country in Europe to pass a law on regional development. I can't believe Mrs Kalanovic doesn't know that nine months ago we passed the Regional Development Act, of course, the ruling majority, which divided Serbia into seven regions, and said, ma'am, it is necessary that each region has eight hundred thousand to two million inhabitants. Those conditions were met by that law that was passed nine months ago. "Eurostat" has given consent to such a regional division and should be said, if they are not political reasons, which are the reasons why the law changes after nine months. On several occasions, it has been mentioned that we have not voted in favour of the seven-regional law, and now we are rebelling against this one of five. It is true that we have not voted in favour of the seven-regional law because it is a bad law and because this law does not change the differences in development in Serbia's regions, it will not decrease and it has not been reduced by nine months of the law's validity, it may have even increased. For that reason, we voted against, we didn't vote for that law at all, we didn't vote for "for" or "against." Obviously, the ruling majority realizes after nine months that the law is not good and instead of changing it by some better law, it changes it even worse than it was adopted nine months ago. It is clear that the reasons for amending this law are exclusively political, or political trade, the blackmail of certain political parties to amend the law so that six municipalities in which the Bosniak population lives are in one statistical region. It is also clear from letters written by the leaders of the Bosniak parties to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, it is quite clear. All arguments that this is not true, brought out by Mrs Kalanovic and anyone from the ruling majority, fall into the water. Mr. Dusan Novakovic, Chief of the Zlatibor County called me a few days ago and asked me, if I were to mention that and to say that he resigned exclusively because of the Law on Equal Regional Development, or amendments to the Law. Otherwise, Mr. Dusan Novakovic, G17 plus, it is true that he resigned in February of the month. [[Applause]] There was already an announcement of an amendment to the law. He knew what kind of announcements were being prepared and resigned. Don't twist those facts. At the meeting of Mrs Kalanovic in Uzic with the presidents of the municipalities of Zlatibor County were present presidents or representatives of all 10 municipalities of Zlatibor County, were Mr Slavisa Puric of Nova Varoša, the president of the municipality of DS or Brana Dilparic, President SO Nova Varoš of the SPS, so did they also say they agree with this law? Of course not, of course SO Nova Varoš unanimously adopted a declaration against amendments to the Law on Regional Development and the formation of certain areas by ethnicity. In the municipality of Prepolje this declaration was on the agenda. Don't accuse the opposition in the Zlatibor County of spreading some kind of national impatience and hatred. That's not true. We stand for the common life of Serbs and Bosniaks in the region, because they have lived there for centuries and it is not true that we are spreading any impatience. The impatience arises from this bill, writing certain political leaders letters to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and this led to the fact that, when the declaration came to the agenda, the statement was purely ethnic, unfortunately. DS representatives, the DS parliamentary group has committees both Serbs and Bosniaks. Serbs voted for the declaration, Bosniaks voted against it. It literally divided in ethnic terms SO Prepolje, which is not good, but it is not due to the opposition parties of the Zlatibor district, but rather to the caucus of the law. And don't pay any more respects to us to spread any impatience when that's not true. We advocate the co-existence of Serbs and Bosniaks in the Zlatibor County who have lived there for centuries. What Serbia needs, I was saying when we talked about the Law in principle, Serbia needs more significant investment in infrastructure throughout Serbia. This will reduce differences that are huge in the regions of Serbia between the region and municipalities in Serbia and require classical decentralisation. You've proposed a law on public property, and that's good. The law needs Serbia, but one decentralisation, fiscal and economic need to be implemented, return to the municipalities of property and income, thus bringing about a more balanced regional development and a reduction of regional differences. In order not to get into a situation where we're constantly getting respect from the government – we invested here, we invested there, we make investments in Prepolje, we don't need anyone to give anything. Make decentralisation, leave the municipalities part of the income and the state doesn't have to give anything. So, Mrs Kalanovic did not sell, I suppose, neither the forest nor the meadow in Triestenik, so she invested for the bridge in Prijepolje, but was given by state and taxpayers who are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Do decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation. [[Applause]] Leave part of your income to municipalities, and they will be able to do infrastructure projects on their territories and will not have to beg any Minister for certain investments in their municipality, but will have from those revenues that remain there. In order not to make a joke out of this state, they come here, they visit on television various mayors from the ruling coalition, boasting that they owe only 70 million for electricity, don't pay the municipalities of electricity, unlike some other municipality where the mayor of the ruling coalition also owes 300 million. Guys, what does this look like? Where the mayors are not from the ruling coalition, they have to pay all obligations to the state, which is perfectly normal. Don't bring out false facts, but, come on, if you really think Serbia is developing evenly regionally, that decentralisation is fiscal and economical and that public property law is passed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39261	Seven minutes and 15 seconds. Mr Milan Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle, we Serbian radicals have pointed to the devastating consequences of this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act. We remember when this law was passed and we were against, there were seven regions, however, to the sheer blackmail of the works of MPs in front of Muslims, Bosniaks, from there, this law is changing and creating five regions, not asking, no one, the Serbs who live there whether they agree with it or not. And then I spoke and now I'm saying that there is a clean discrimination against the Serb people in the Raska area. It's normal for people to get together and write petitions and it's normal for people to be worried there. I asked that Djudjevic, the MP, my neighbour - and what to do with the Serbs in Tutin, where the number from 36% of Serbs in the 1970s was reduced to 2%, that is, to 580 living Serbs in Tutin. Is in this way, in this regionalization, hiding something big, as Mr Krasic said before, something big behind the hill, i.e. that some new centers, subregions, will be allowed slowly, who knows what names you will give them in the future. As a man living in that space, and I am a representative of these citizens, I think this law goes to the detriment of the Serb people and promotes the further eviction of Serbs from that space. And last time I said it, and now I'm saying, this is a pure Dinkic uncle of this law, to make some new party, and at the expense of citizens, taxpayers who pay taxes. I call on the authorities to reason, that really these projects don't say they don't send them to the Assembly, because this is how you fight Serbs with Serbs, and you argue with both Bosniaks and Serbs in the old Raska area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39263	Thank you. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39264	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I want to address Madam Minister, and I think it should be included in the debate at this point on the amendment of the Law on Regional Development, because this debate is not going in the right direction. This way of debate and these arguments that we have heard in the previous 15, 20 minutes are precisely arguments that lead to division in the Sandzak area of the Zlatibor County according to the national principle. Such a law, which is under LDP, misconceived, has allowed some parties, some individuals to return that national division and speak the language of the 1990s. First of all, I would like to deny that there was a national declaration in the SO Prijepolje when it came to the proposal for this law, because the LDP parliamentary group voted unanimously against the proposal of any declaration in So Pojbo and the LDP committee group is a multiethnic group in SO Prepolje. Also, I want to criticise those ruling coalition parties who speak at the local level contrary to what is said here in the Serbian Parliament, so MPs of the SPS and DS speak one argument when they talk about the Regional Development Act, while their committees use a completely different argument and act in a different way. This creates further confusion among citizens, Bosniaks and Serbs in the Sandzak area. It's a dangerous way of demagogue talk, because we're talking about everything that doesn't say in the Regional Development Act. That's why, indeed, someone should, particularly you, Madam Minister, say that this law, if it talks about regional development agencies, speaks about regional development agencies that already exist, that the founders of the regional development agency, based in Uzic, and the Municipality of Priboj and the municipalities of Prepolje and the municipalities of Nova Varoš and the municipalities of Chatin. You should not wait for any of the opposition MPs, from LDP MPs, to say so, you should say, and not to come to the situation that the ruling parties who are opposition parties in the area of the Republic of Serbia, and the ruling parties at the local level, are using this law to show that Serbia should not be divided, or how they should protect the Serbs from Bosniaks, while some Bosniak parties use this law to show that they have preserved Sandzak and one and the other parties rule together, so the DSS does not mind being in the municipality of Pojbo in a coalition with the Bosniak List 'For European Sandzak', SNS does not mind being in the Prepolje coalition with the 'Sandzak Democratic Party'. But if we talk about regional development and the Regional Development Act, then we will use national demagogy to process each of our constituents and take votes at that cheap demagogy. Enough with the story. That's what you gentlemen from the ruling coalition need to say, not us from the LDP. We, when we are the ruling party, after the next elections at the level of the Republic of Serbia, will do so successfully, but now you must assume that responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39265	Three minutes and 45 seconds. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39266	I will use a short time just to say a few words in favour of this amendment, which my colleague Martinovic submitted to the proposed law. I think this is one of the evidence that is about to be denied by Mrs Kalanovic, who unfortunately is not here, who is in opposition or even us in the Assembly trying to convince us that there is no policy here and that this law does not require policy. Otherwise, this amendment concerns Article 5 of the Basic Law. It says it's defined what regions and areas are. It is said: "For the purpose of encouraging regional development, the following regions are determined, so they are numbered." My colleague Aleksandar Martinovic suggested the following changes, the stance would sound like this: "For the purpose of encouraging a balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia, the following regions are determined. "The government has not accepted the amendment. And you know what, among other things, it says in a brief explanation? '"... There is no need to stress in particular that it is a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia. ''We are now asking – why is it not necessary or what is disputed in the proposed amendment, whatever we think of the concept of this law? Would this amendment and its acceptance question the implementation of the balanced development of the Republic of Serbia? Or would the acceptance of this amendment, as Mrs Kalanovic said earlier, prevent or obstructed state interventions to reduce regional, or inter-municipal differences in Serbia? No, of course not. As a result, we rightly suspect that the greatest political background is the adoption of this law. It is not the absence or fact that Serbia does not have such a law that has led to a 1-7 difference between the districts and 1:15 between municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but has brought unreasonable behaviour, above all, executive authorities and management who know what principles in relation to decentralisation and one correct relationship with all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And now those who have established the most centralised and fiscal and political and every other system in this country are telling us that this will be a prerequisite for creating space for the state to intervene and help vulnerable and undeveloped ends in Serbia. Just that we're penguins and we believe it all. Earlier, Mr. Hajdarevic here said that through the debate, somehow, they are pervaded and, some, divided on a national basis and asks the ruling majority to say a lot – and how can the ruling majority say a lot when they share what you are talking about are just inspired by the ruling majority, and you are applauded by the representatives of the authorities. We did not adopt the basic version of the Law, and we did not realize that individual parties supporting power understood this basic version of the Law. They recognized space and a chance to form national regions, according to which or whose standards national regions are defined. Are these European standards?- I'm sorry. Statistical nomenclature?- I'm sorry. Is that an economic criterion, so it's imperative that in the territory of the Raska region there be a region where all municipalities with dominant Muslim population will be defined?- I'm sorry. What does this have to do with regionalisation, with statistical regionalisation, with European principles, if we can call them that, introducing even regional development? It doesn't matter. And then a representative of the government came out, and then he fired in opposition; it was your fault; it was your fault. You're initiating conflicts and problems. But the government doesn't have the courage to say that in the ruling majority there is a fundamental problem which is why we are discussing this law today. That is why this law should be withdrawn, to create a quality and content law, a law that will really give room for the institutions of this country to work on the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39267	From the time of the parliamentary group, four minutes and 40 seconds. The word is Mrs. Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39268	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I feel the need to clarify something. By signing the SAA and ratifying the agreement here at the National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia is committed to introducing statistical regionalisation. Of course, from those parties that were against the SAA, who voted against him, you can't expect them to support such a law. Now it's all disguised some other things. There was then a clear majority who voted for the SAA. There is a clear majority today who will vote this law. Of course, Brussels doesn't make you do this, but if you want to have access to the funds that Brussels gives to both candidate countries and Member States, which are pre-accession and structural funds, you need to do this statistical regionalisation. It was done by all the countries on their way to the EU, sooner or later, by some at the beginning, like us, some after they became EU members. One of the following phenomena, unfortunately, of this kind of law, is what was expected, which is the growth of localism and provincialism. It's just very embarrassing for me to hear about what the Užice has to do with Kragujevac or what the King, Kragujevac and other cities have to do with it. This law in no way, just like any future, if it is, if consensus is reached, political regionalisation will not affect the unity of the Serbian state, and the least statistical regions will disrupt that unity. That's just not true. Of course, it is legitimate, I say, for those parties that were against and the SAA to work towards reducing the importance of the law, the importance of statistical regions and the importance of starting economic decentralisation. No one has any illusions, and neither do we from the G17 plus party, that this is some kind of real decentralisation. No, but this is a step in that direction for true decentralisation. Come on, support our proposal and support the Property Return Act, which would bring back property to our municipalities, which would bring back to the poor, devast, because without this property there is no development, and without development, this dreary picture of Serbia, as a country with the largest regional differences in Europe, will be even more dreary. So, indeed, there is no political background in this law, but there is likely to be a background in what the parties are doing at the bar and what confuses members of the national minorities and creates an unpleasant situation to come to terms with ethnic principles in certain Serb municipalities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39269	Thank you. Just now, Mr. Stevanovic, was it from the time of the authorized representative? (Employee Dragan Stevanović, from the post: Yes. Thank you. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39270	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 5, relating to the level of development...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39271	I'm sorry, Mr. Antic, we're still on Article 4. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39272	Like I said, on Article 5. The SNS parliamentary group submitted an amendment. The article refers to the degree of underdevelopment, and we believe that the least the government should have done is indicate in the reasoning of the law why these changes are going on. The proposal we currently have is that municipalities are divided into those that have more and below the average of GDP and below the average of GDP. Before that, we had the distribution of the region to those who have over 75% of GDP and the motives for all of this are what interests the SNS and which is why it has submitted this amendment – whether in this way some regions that, in our opinion, fall into undeveloped regions are being developed thanks to the reduction of these criteria. and why did the reasoning not indicate exactly which regions were undeveloped and which regions were developed? We have five regions in this bill. I think you should have at least explained that, if you didn't want it in the text of the law. The ministry has GDP data for each municipality, for each district, and I believe that this ambiguity can be complemented, after all, and through the presentation of Ms. Minister. What was the purpose of this new proposal? I would take advantage of the opportunity to remind myself that there is a huge difference in the development between the region, that as for some economic growth over four fifths, 80% of economic growth, more or less, depends on year to year, is being achieved by Belgrade and Novi Sad, and, in time, in Nis, which has managed to track them, but in the last few years, it has become important. Yes, since the transition so far, nearly half of Serbia's economic growth has not benefited. It's mostly central Serbia, where I come from. I believe that citizens should be given exact information, if they are not already available by the Statistics Office or are not present enough in public, then it must be done by the Ministry. To be clear, with this kind of economic policy, this law means nothing. If you have an economic structure dominated primarily by services, therefore, financial services, if the entire economic system is based on imports of goods and if imports are linked to trade and traffic, all of them will be concentrated in Belgrade and Novi Sad, because there are also the biggest markets. As long as industrial production is not taken into account, as long as we have deindustriousisation in Serbia, as long as we have jobs in processing production, and these are jobs primarily from the interior, from our municipalities, there will be nothing of uniform regional development, and this law itself will mean nothing. In addition to this law, we need a different economic policy, an economic policy that will be based on production, industrial development, that we are from the interior, which we are most hitherto during the transition that has caused great poverty to the citizens of central Serbia, and also from central Vojvodina, although the average of Vojvodina in this case is taking out Novi Sad, in order to benefit from these and these laws. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39273	Two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39274	Since this debate has brought together a set of four completely different laws and since our parliamentary group is mainly focused on amending the Law on the Privatisation and Amendment of the Law which regulates free division of action, I will only use a minute or two to remind the public that we discussed this law when he was recently in the procedure for the first time and to repeat two basic problems. One is that the naked statistical image of the Serbian economy has been under the glass of world experts for a long time, but you can't blame them for anything, and you can tell us that there are data, only we can't find them. So you're going out once with the data that you're going to measure the rate of development by 75% of the average gross social product, and now you're saying that only the gross social product is going to be that limit, and I feel uncomfortable having to repeat the question to you -- where have you been publishing since 2005 the data, in general, about what is the social gross product per capita? It can only be found by interested citizens in data published by USAID in some data relating to the review of information on what is called the development of the Serbian economy. It is not just an observation by our economist from the Serbian Progressive Party, people who deal with this seriously, unlike those who use this law to build their party's infrastructure. So if you don't have that information that's a rapper, it's very interesting that you can, without any consequences or punishment to shape a region like this or something, with this or that municipality, because we can't say you broke the procedure if it doesn't exist. You are below that limit, and the border is not given. This is the basic observation A, the second observation regarding your established practice, to change the laws to which certain institutions, agencies, you close, you open others, in fact to cloud the costs of the existence of the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency and its effects, not to say the damages, opening up new ones without any balances that say – spent this much money, these are effects, not effects for law-makers, consultants who did them, authors, those who have politically profited on these laws and such distributions of money through these and such agencies, but where and how much effects are on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The citizens that make all of this exist. In the way you shut down one export funding fund, so you attach it to another, how you set up a third, and that we didn't get a single moment's balance here on that, in the right sense of the word balance, and that the reports of the State Auditing Institution, which just scratched the surface of the iceberg, are sufficiently talking about the seriousness of the law itself and the objections that we, unfortunately, are making to this law. We will not waste more time on regional development, except on amendments, because for what is the main topic we leave time for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39275	Four minutes have been used by an authorised representative. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39276	This Article 9 refers to Article 16 of the Basic Regional Development Act and defines a regional strategy. Here we will again point to a very flat-rate approach of those who have written amendments to the law, as well as the law itself, and to the amendments we have proposed to this law, which are completely different from the amendments that we have proposed earlier, but of course does not change our relationship and attitude towards what you have offered us as a law that will ensure the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Article 16 amending this amendment in paragraph 4 states that "the Ministry is preparing a proposal for a regional strategy to co-operate with one or more competent regional development agencies established for certain regions and units of local self-government" etc. What did we suggest? We have proposed that co-operation applies to all accredited regional development agencies foreseen for one region. Carefully, what the bill promoter wrote in an explanation that rejected the amendment: "In the selection of regional development agencies, account will be taken of the quality of work, references and other elements for the evaluation of the work of regional development agencies in accordance with the sublegal act" etc. I guess these oatmeals have to be filled in by every agency that's been accredited. So what's the point of accreditation if there's gonna be agencies that are accredited and they're doing good and they're accredited and they're not doing good? This is a way to derail accreditation. What weight does accreditation have after this relationship with the amendment? Of course there isn't any. It's your relationship to the law. We can understand that there is a need for those who are in charge of this, to put this thing completely under control, but because of this attitude, they can't guarantee that there will be no privileged development agencies. To be clear, regional development agencies defined as companies or associations cannot say that they are not a useful thing, but are useful only when they are in office or when they operate beyond the state apparatus, past the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the only time they show up and make sense of it. Only then are they free and only then can they bring certain effects. If otherwise, they are exclusively the subject of political manipulation and will always be favored by those who unite or whose members are members of the municipality that have support in the Republic Government. With this attitude to the amendment, you have definitely shown, or the government has shown that it does not want to be impartial when it comes to regional development agencies. They are useful, I repeat, but the interest of their existence must show only units of local self-government. What are the parameters on which to define which local self-government you're going to communicate with, which you're not? Will there really be no abuse? The question is, what are the capacities, from administrative to political, local self-government today in Serbia to define regional development agencies? How many local self-governments today have human and all other capacities to define projects that will be supported by some regional development agency, to deserve money from pre-accession funds you're fighting for, which you're just talking about here? You've got local self-governments that keep knocking on typewriters. You have self-government joints where management acts like it's past the world, they don't respect the state or the ministry or the inspection bodies, nothing or anyone alive. The rules and laws that are passed here in this room for them are optional. When you complain about such facts to the ministries, they shrug and say, well, what we can do, we've done ours, and they're still doing whatever they want and whatever they want. You have local self-government that devises the development documents that were brought in two and three years ago, documents that will only be able to receive support or be able to apply to them for the funds of international organisations and institutions, for the sake of quality, because they are regional character. Such documents have been adopted somewhere before, some municipalities have been ready to do so before. Then new leaderships come that say – you know, it's been brought before. Then they do everything to make the development documents of such a character dissensive, in order to achieve their own personal interests or interests of a group of people who at the moment have a little more money above average, as much as they have today, unfortunately, the vast majority of people in Serbia – very little. We are talking about impartiality, the responsibilities of local self-government that will enter regional development agencies as a limited-responsibility society, and this way should give us a message – that the government will be impartial. Then today you go through television channels and you see where the ministers from individual parties are coming from and you get it right away – right on the fingers of one hand you can count which agencies, eventually, will be able to function and which will not. If you passed this law because of regional development agencies, you did not have to. Call by the National Agency for Regional Development, a public call, a competition for money – 17 regional development agencies have been defined on the last page, which can apply to projects for money. Of all the 17 agencies that are listed, only one was created after the adoption of the Regional Development Act and you know which one? This is the Office of the National Agency for Regional Development in Kosovo Mitrovica – thank God, it's good. All others have long been formed, before this law was passed and functioning, some work well, and they didn't need this law. Since you've already defined yourself to pass one of these laws, then you've had to give it meaning, not just for the sake of order. This is serious. You can't say that you advocate statistical regionalisation nine months ago, and then political problems collapse that statistical regionalization. No one is against creating preconditions for Serbia to be acceptable to anyone who wants to spend and invest their money, but this is not the way and your relationship with such amendments, in fact, is saying how much you really recognize what statistical regionalisation is and how this concept should be established in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39277	Thank you, Mr. Stevanović. As a matter of fact, you've wasted your time as an authorised representative, and there's another minute from the MP's group. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Who wants a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39278	Article 11 refers to the register of measures and incentives for regional development, led by the Agency for Economic Registers and Interventions of SNS, which was directed in this direction that the National Assembly has a much better insight into the measures taken, of course, and into the effects of these measures, because I believe that this is the obligation of all of us MPs, regardless of whether we are from the authorities or opposition. Probably 80% of us come from the inside, and this law primarily refers to the parts of our country, to the interior of our country, because there is a huge backdrop in development, so I thought it was the interest of all of us to have more frequent, more complete information, and that this is the task of our MPs. That is why it is also proposed, and how important it is to have insight into how the funds are being allocated, how the funds are being allocated, and when it comes to national funds, how the EU funds will be allocated in the future, how the project proposals are progressing, there are a lot of issues for which all of us MPs are interested. I believe that by adopting this amendment, everyone would get to the quality of work and much better and much more fully respond to the obligations that put before us the environments that chose us as MPs. That is the essence of this amendment. I'm sorry there was no understanding in the government. I hope that my colleagues, whether they are in power or opposition, will recognize the necessary and adopt this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39279	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39280	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, it is my intention and desire to include the minister in this, I think, concrete debate. It is that it does not have much to do with this bill, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the Regions, on regional development, or the Law on the Regions, as I would say, but perhaps it intends at 1800 hours, when today's debate is over, to answer some questions for us. Since she agreed to come here, I treat her like a qualified expert. In order to help her in some way, I will ask Mrs. Minister – how will this law be reflected, since you have a firm intention to sell Telecom, in developing a fixed and mobile network, telephone and even a system of telecommunications in the regions? Does that mean a new... ? Did you want something, Mr. Novakovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39281	I listen to you carefully, but I expect you to connect to the amendment you have submitted, which reads: "The measures taken by the Agency for Economic Registers informs the National Assembly once a year". Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39282	Mr. Novakovic, that's what I'm talking about. Otherwise, I speak as deputy head of the parliamentary group within those 15 minutes. Anyway, thank you for your remarks. And so, Madam Minister, I expect your answer, especially if the citizens, say, of the Zlatibor County and finally further upset, are the people who live there. I'm not from the Goldibor County, I'm from Cuck, but I travel there a lot, and I know how people think. Indeed, this law has caused many controversies and indeed people are devoting themselves and thinking independently of their political belongings or of who they vote for. Today you have heard many arguments from people from various parties. We didn't get too many answers, so that's how we have to think. I will repeat part of my discussion from the debate in principle. Respected citizens of Serbia, first of all of Raška districts or, as some of our fellow citizens say - Sandzak, and I don't mind any other name, there is an experiment with this law, in vivo, on people, on citizens, whether they are Bosniaks or Serbs, and without need, people are fighting. That's because this law is the most ordinary political trade. Someone agreed not to write the word "genocide" in the Srebrenica Declaration, and someone had to agree that the government did not fall - to this kind of law on regions, which is what birds on the branch already know. That may also be because we now have several representatives of the Bosniak people. It seems to me that at this point, although some did not like it, the only honest representative of the Bosniak people is Efendija Muamer Zukorlic, regardless of how much I disagree with his views. I argue, this can be determined by an analysis, during the events that took place, so I repeat -- first passed a law of seven regions and voted by two ministers from the Bosniak people, and unanimously, so someone reminded them that they did not know what they were voting for. Then they said, "That's not what they thought." The letter of the Bosniak parties was further addressed to the government, or Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and it is clear what it is. I don't need anyone to talk about it, because I was, unfortunately, a member of the coalition that had 126 MPs. Mr. Novakovic, I know what that means, all the small parties, satellites, one MP of 125, too. If there's one, there's no 126, and now this bill is coming, as it comes. What will be there with the people, whether they are Serbs or Bosniaks, in Belgrade people who are in power are not interested. Is it possible that they know better in Belgrade what is better for people in the Zlatibor County, in the Raška region, in Sandzak? Not even unanimous SO Nova Varosh decisions where some Bosniaks voted against, for the sake of truth, some colleagues are not present here to tell them. Did it burn to the nail, wasn't it enough for nine months to see that such a law, which basically only has revisions in this area where political trade is done, did not bring any benefit? Let's go and ask people there all together, make here an inter-party multi-ethnic delegation of MPs and ask them what benefits they've benefited nine months from the previous law? They had no use for it, and of these changes and additions, there will be even more damage, as there is a discrepancies between the citizens of Bosniak and Serbian nationality, and there is no reason. They're united at least in one thing, which is that they live badly together. Therefore, no one from Belgrade will bring them luck. They must, in my humble opinion, unite, both Bosniaks and Serbs, against such Belgrade authorities, I would say Belgrade's breaths. I openly say that as a member of the Serbian nation. If someone wanted to do honest decentralisation, they should have gone from below, to be the first step, to get the property back to the municipalities, and to Novi Varosha, and Priboja, and Užica and Prepolje. Then people would vote unanimously, it wouldn't happen to be divided by national stitches, and that's for every well-intentioned man to put his finger on his forehead and think about it – what kind of authority has caused people to commit after ten years? We thought October 5th at least that was over. I am a witness, and I must say that this was primarily about the government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2004 and 2007, that one was made, so to speak, the terrain, not to say national reconciliation, but to make a good space for good talks, to talk primarily about the economy, to see how people live, whether they are Bosniaks or whether they are Serbs. I also have to remind our fellow Bosniak friends that this government has passed a law on Bosnian language, on the Bosnian flag, and it doesn't bother anyone, nor does it bother you now. We now have a government that, on behalf of the European path, on behalf of European integration, laws that we must pass on our European path, in fact, is a real conflict and a quarrel between the citizens of the Raška area. Unfortunately, as we can see, it goes on the national seams. Who's responsible for that? Who's the most responsible? Is it the opposition that points to that or the authority that makes these laws? The resignation of Chief of the Zlatibor County, which was recently in the ruling G17 party, and what he said best about it. This is where the thesis swap isn't gonna work. I think that there was all the people, all of them, whether they were Bosniaks or Serbs, very smart and intelligent, because I met many people there, they would realize that Belgrade's government, what now represents Belgrade's power, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia, has been seductive and thus hides the fact that it can't in any segment, not one percent, to improve their quality of life, and that's the most important -- how people live there. That is why many affairs are being made, these days in Serbia, to hide from the people as the people live. That's why we have the first Serbian tourist in Croatia, our neighbouring country, who doesn't ask for 50,000 apartments left by Serbs, but we only have nice stories, marketing, but only individuals live on marketing, and hundreds of thousands of citizens starve. I hope you'll wake up and talk to the MPs for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39283	Eight minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, so Mr. Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39284	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I am speaking to you. Here all kinds of insinuations are being brought up, in this hall in this high house, about someone trading in Serbia by passing laws, and in particular by adopting a magnificent resolution condemning war crimes. Someone in this room insists on pointing a finger at the MPs, trying to call, and it proudly points out that he was in the government when he knew the laws were passed by trading. There is no more trade in laws, because Serbian citizens know very well, as someone says they know the reasons for the resignations of a district chief, so the citizens of Serbia know and why they did not want to vote for some policy and why they gave some policy a majority in the elections, because everyone had the opportunity to implement their concept of regionalisation and decentralisation during that period of power. There is no political party in this room that has not participated in one or another way in power during a certain period of its operation. I pray that people who now insist on bringing out various insinuations to show their hand who they were, who was holding them, who was holding their right hand to sign some law, who was it that prevented them from having all their intellectual potential, that their creative political ideas that had a solution to all problems, who then prevented them from being in power to do so? Let them say the name of that shameless man who did not allow certain laws to be passed, let them say who was putting weights on their feet that they could not jump as much as their potential. I think all we have here is regret and desire for power and chair. Not because the government is seen as a liability but as a privilege set. The execution of a responsible authority means that citizens are not counted on these or those, that they are not closed into any cargo, that they are not imprisoned in any ban, but simply that there is a vision of these people living at the place. They do not pass laws in this country for people sitting in Belgrade and even fewer people sitting in Brussels. I'm from Kruševci. I actively participated in the adoption of this law. Mrs. Verica Kalanovic is from Triestenik. I know very well what the citizens of Kruševec need, as she knows what the citizens of Triestenik need. We don't live when we get out of this room on a satellite or a spaceship, so they can get us down here in this room. We live in our cities and municipalities and try to do our best to develop these local communities. If someone has a different concept, well, nothing easier to implement, they should just go to the polls and get the necessary mandate from the citizens of Serbia for the concept they offer. And all he has to do is tell the citizens -- this is what we're gonna do, and this is what we're gonna do. But now that he's not in a position to carry out his political ideas by power, but by opposition, it turns out that it's not bad for some to be in opposition. I have to ask them, where was their mind now represented by the citizens of Serbia, when they were in power? The evidence is that the opposition mind only appears when power is lost. That's why it's good for some of them to be in opposition for as long as possible, that these creative ideas impose as much pressure on us as possible, that they criticize and correct us, that we, too, exercise power. But it's not good that when they come to power, they do what we do, because they face political necessity. Finally, the laws in this government and in this ruling majority are not brought as a result of the compromise, as a result of political trade, as a result of blackmail, but solely as a result of the necessity on the ground, in local communities, as a result of the desire to improve the quality of life in all parts of Serbia equally. We are aware of the fact that there is no autonomy of local self-government without property. Of course we'll prepare laws that return property to local communities. We will never say – you know, and we wanted to do it, because I fought for the government to be a variable category, but to be a variable category in the election won by voters, not voters. Here, run for your policy, there will be elections in 2012, try then to run for your change in some other regional development, try to undo these laws and to pass some others, but I think these are good laws, that this concept of regionalisation and decentralisation is good for Serbia and, once again, is not the result of any political trade, is solely the result of political necessity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39285	Five minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Mr. Nesovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39286	Mr. Chairman, there are many times mentioned here, so far, the seeds of dissociation in the Zlatibor County, and let's talk about who makes the seeds of discord in the Zlatibor County. The seeds of discord are those who stage protests against this law, so in front of the Užica City Assembly, 30 of their activists have 25 paroles. The seeds of discord also make up those who go to Užice, Chatin, some other city and say – you will go for projects in Novi Pazar, and they do not say that there will be developmental regional agencies, which can be in Užic, can be in Novi Pazar, can be in Kralje, Šapac or any other city and that these development agencies that will be quality survivors. Therefore, it is important for Užice to have a good regional development agency, and it is not important to spread the demagogy that someone will go to Novi Pazar for projects. Also, speaking of this, it is very good to say how much has this government of the Republic of Serbia invested in the development of the Zlatibor district? She's invested a lot. Let's be honest, just at the ski resort on Zlatibor as much as it is invested, so let's talk about how much it's invested in infrastructure and in Prijepolje and in Novi Varosha and Proboj. 'Let's talk, too, about one thing – when people will stop being unhappy in the Zlatibor County and when young people will want to go back to where they live, which is, Priboj, Prepolje, Novi Varosha or any city. When they have a job. How are we gonna handle this? We'll solve it by solving the FAP issue in Priboj. And no other government, other than this government, has taken action to address the FAP Priboj issue. When the FAP is about as strong as it was in 1980 and some years, then the Regional Development Act will give its full meaning, and those who fight against this law, I guess that's when they'll figure out the good side of this law, I guess. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-19-0.u39287	Thank you, sir. Today's workday is over. We continue on Tuesday, 20 April 2010, at 10.00 hours, following the provision of Article 235. The Rules of Procedure and in the follow-up debate on the amendment to Article 12, which was submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Thank you for your cooperation.
