ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49178	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on my official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 73 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session of the National Assembly shall have a course under Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, as well as from the authority of the authority on which he is headed, i.e. on the basis of Article 286(2), which reads - an exceptional president, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, the right of the position of the 1st member may also be effected at the session of the National Assembly or at a session held up to five minutes on Tuesday and Thursday, immediately after the opening of the sitting, the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and the transition to a further discussion. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49179	First, the reminders for 15 April 2008 Mr Konstantin Kosachev and my smallness with some other Parliamentarians of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe launched an initiative to investigate the issue of trafficking in human organs in Kosovo. It was an old story that kept repeating itself. Unmichael's investigators stayed six months on the case. As one goes, the other comes, the process starts from the beginning, so for years none of that whole story has been untangled. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has accepted that the report be discussed and assigned to Dick Marty. Dick Marty worked on the report for almost two years, came out with a preliminary report to the public, and then his report adopted this committee unanimously, days ago. The public already knows all about it. What surprises me and will raise some questions, it is an incredible reaction from our state summit to the news of the contents of that report. So, we have a reaction from the prosecution, I don't know who determines what to say and who the spokesman puts those words in his mouth, but to experience that reporter Dick Marty, who made a report extravagant for our country and extracreative in relation to the facts that its contents are, comes into a situation to pollute with our state bodies through the media, attacking our state authorities because of untapped bad statements, it's really scandalous. We heard from the very beginning that it was the victory of the prosecutor's office and Serbia's victory in this case. That, in my opinion, is double upside down, first from the aspect of the victims themselves. How pompous we can talk about the victory in the event of the existence of over 500 victims who in this miraculous way ended their lives and whose organs were taken, kidnapped and resold. On the other hand, how can someone talk about winning when they have almost nothing to do with knowing these facts and under three, how someone can go public in this way and bring Dick Marty to the international public in connection with something that Albanians like to call a pro-Serbian lobby and something like that. The man is no pro-Serbian lobbyist, he is a lobbyist for justice and for the truth and any communication, whether our MPs, ministers, president of the state or representative of the prosecution that thus brings Dick Marty into contact with some alleged set he has with Serbia against Albanians, something that directly damages the interests of this country, above all, and because it is not true. If someone thinks that on someone's order they're running a state policy or they're running someone's party policy in order to promote themselves in that way, that's the wrong thing. Thanks to the perverse reactions of our officials, who first and foremost get their hands on microphones to respond to this issue, the public has even been misinformed about some of the essential aspects of this case. According to some, this initiative was launched by Dick Marty, not Serbia. According to others, this decision was not unanimously taken on the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights, which is not true. The decision was reached unanimously. So these are all amazing things. My question concerns the prosecution – what they think they are doing specifically in this case, given these circumstances and whether they think they stop making public statements by playing media spiders or taking their jobs seriously. What the Foreign Ministry thinks is now to do, given that at this point, an opportunity is open to a certain change of public opinion in the Western European countries when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, not only in terms of the character and the work of Hashim Thaci, but in terms of the legitimate foundation of so-called. the declared state of Kosovo, which is actually based on serious crimes. Those who carried out independence, supported by Washington and other states, are actually those who supported precisely those individuals who are protagonists of that independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49180	The word has an MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about a month ago I asked a question in this House about Prosecutor Vukcevic. In that explanation and request, above all to the Prime Minister, I explained why I consider it, and I have the right to do so as a MP because the assembly elects prosecutors, that Prosecutor Vukcevic is unworthy and incompetent to carry out his duty. I received an answer from Minister Malovic, who sent two members of the law in which prosecutors are elected in Serbia and that was a complete answer to my question. In the meantime, as we heard from the predecessors, a new case, Mr. Dick Marty's report and the reactions we received from the same prosecutor. To remind Serbia's public that I was not the first MP to ask for Mr Vukcevic to be removed from his post. This is what the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Ivica Dacic, was looking for in this same house back in December 2007. He had his own explanation for why he asked for it. Meanwhile, his parliamentary group voted again a year and a half later and re-elected Vukcevic to the same post. I still think Mr. Vukcevic is incompetent and unworthy to perform the function he is in. As you can see, the case discussed, Serbia's EU accession, is a problem with Hague indictees. On the other hand, we have seen cases where people are held in custody for two years, and then they are released and can sue the state of Serbia because the prosecution is unable to collect enough evidence to be prosecuted and convicted. Now we have this case of Mr. Dick Marty's report. What's the new argument? In my opinion, Prosecutor Vukcevic is not only incompetent and incompetent, but shows that he is not independent in his work, that he is not independent. The first statement following this report was that our state, the prosecution should not interfere in the whole case, because it can do political damage and interfere with the state in negotiations with Albanian national minorities with KIM. Then we hear a statement from the president of the state that he will talk to all the legitimate representatives of the Albanian people from Kosovo. I would remind him that there are no Albanian people down there, because they live in Albania. There is an Albanian national minority down there in the state of Serbia. After that, we get a statement, directly from Mr Vukcevic, that there is no point in pressing charges against Hashim Thaci because he is not available to our judiciary. Is Ratko Mladić available? Is Karic available? Are the Sharits available? They're on the run as long as you want. Is Cane Saturday available? Who will remember them all. Until recently, Terzic was not available, so proceedings were conducted and indictments were filed. Now what would Hashim Thaci, who is otherwise a citizen of the RS and who has committed crimes in our territory, be privileged to those persons? Because of all of this, I believe that the most important thing would be that Mr. Vukcevic himself resigns from the post he is in, because I repeat, he shows that he is not independent in his work, incompetent and unworthy of these functions. If he does not want to resign, I ask the competent State Council of Prosecutors in this way whether they will initiate a procedure for his resolution so that we in parliament can decide on his further performance and, hopefully, to remove him from that position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49182	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, these days we hear that Parliament rapporteur Dick Marti gave one piece of information that is very important to the crimes committed against the Serbian people, the Roma people and other national minorities in Kosovo. I just want to point out to the institutions of the Serbian state as well as to the European institutions that we need to know that these crimes are not just the victims of the majority Serb people. We all know what the Serbian people have experienced in all history. That's what happened to the Roma people. I can see there's no mention of the Roma people anywhere. I'll just say a few things. A Roma wedding was stopped in Djakovica in 1999. That's when they kidnapped all the members of the wedding. They raped the bride, which is the biggest shame and crime in both the Roma community and the Roma community, and in all parts of Europe. The members of the wedding were executed, and the bride was kidnapped and raped, which I think our judiciary knows, and Europe should know that, too, because Mr. Haradinaj led it. These days I got a lot of phone information and conversations with the kiM from the Roma community where they gave me information that a lot of Roma were missing and they don't know a clue today, they're not among the living, and where they died, we can assume that the Roma also died in these Albanian private hospitals, where the organs were removed and where they ended up. I want to tell you, which is significant for both us and Europe, we know that 104 Roma were found in 1999 when their ship sank, a very small number of corpses were found, and the rest of them are not known where they are. When she was SRJ, I was the vice president of the Federal Commission for Crime Research. We've made an official request to give information about the dead Roma and the missing. We didn't even get it then. All we know is that the Albanians were involved, that the ship was submerged, and there's nothing known about the victims. I believe that public information, printed and printed, mentions and says that the Roma have experienced this fate as well as the Serbian people. I hope that our state and state institutions will make every effort to cooperate with the international community. The international community should investigate, not Eulex. I don't think Eulex has that much capacity. If the international community has already launched this, it should investigate with our judicial and investigative authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49184	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49185	Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, with full understanding of the issues we heard during the previous session, but with the exception of war crimes on Serbia's territory and on Kosovo's territory in this country, there have been some political crimes in a very close relationship and with war crimes or crimes that have followed war conflicts. The most important among them is the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. My question, referred to by the Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor for Organized Crime, concerns precisely that, that is, the existence of currents and all of those elements that can determine the course of the investigation that has been announced and which, according to the prosecution's announcements, leads to so-called. The political background of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic or, in essence, can we get those answers in 2011 that we could not get for different reasons in 2004, 2055, 2006 or 2007? This is also one of the reasons why the LDP supported the original concept of judicial reform, i.e. that idea and those human resources that led people and the Special Court for Organized Crimes and the War Crimes Court, the special prosecutions, practically promoted to the most responsible positions in the judiciary and gave them the opportunity to make this big change. We were very consistent in that. I don't think there's any doubt about that. As we were very patient waiting for answers to the questions we raised a few years ago, knowing at that time that the circumstances that existed did not make it realistic for us to get neither legal nor judicial, nor political answers to the initiatives we launched. What often appears in the public and why this question is addressed to the authorities that I mentioned is that I have a constant impression that we are spinning in a circle, that the announcements of serious investigations of the political background are occasionally opened, and that, above all, because of the passiveness of the state authorities, they are using space for those who do not have clear answers to repeat their stories or that political backgrounds do not exist or that we will never know it or that it is cloudy, etc., often stating that nothing happened in the meantime. I'll remind you of two events from the past few months. The first is the public recognition, i.e. the disclosure of information provided by former prosecutor Zoran Jakovljevic, who was responsible for handling the investigation following a criminal report filed in 2006 by the LDP concerning the famous case of illegal encounters on the night and handing over then the first, multiple defendant, Milorad Ulemek Legion. It's a famous official note case. Prosecutor Jakovljevic publicly confirmed that because of the direct pressure from the top of the government, i.e. the MUP and BIA, among the people who led the institutions were also those who were actually reported in our criminal report, that he was forced and forced to suspend the proceedings, i.e. to suspend the investigation. It's certainly a new circumstance that the state authorities have to react to. We have been very abstentioned in public reactions to this recognition, providing space for regular and official institutions to conduct the procedure and give those answers that we could not get in 2006 and 2007. On the other hand, more than a month has passed since lawyer Srda Popovic on behalf of the Zoran Djindjic family filed charges for armed rebellion, treating it practically as a prelude to several assassination attempts, and then finally assassinated and killed late Prime Minister Djindjic. In that case, in the days that followed, a reaction by the state authorities came upon the filing of a criminal report. From this distance, it seems more convenient to me than to announce that it will move much more actively towards researching the political background, i.e. the merger and processing of all that information now available to the state authorities and from these two applications, but from a whole series of statements, testimony and other information, which the prosecution and other state authorities may have come into the process of investigating the work of organised crime. What is a formal question for the government and for the ministry and the prosecution is – is the process running according to their knowledge? Are the criminal charges, especially the two I mentioned, the 2006 LDP criminal charges and the Djindjic family's criminal charges filed by lawyer Srda Popovic in November 2010, seriously and without any calculations being taken into account? Is the government behind the prosecution and all other bodies that need to carry out this procedure to the end, because this is a key issue for us, without political influence on the prosecution and the court, but with full political support, because these authorities cannot work without it and without any calculations?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49186	Five minutes. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since finally, after a long manipulation of information, we have been given as MPs a draft budget for 2011. His journey from government to parliament has never been so long. We can see that this troubled budget is even more problematic than the one that was last year. But just over a year ago, in a special way, economic ambassadors were promoted as the new head of the country's economic recovery. In this budget, we don't see the effects of that, on the contrary, we see that we are in a greater depth. I'd like to ask a series of concrete questions to the department of resolution. How many of these economic ambassadors have been appointed? What countries are they in? How much did they cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia this year, or how much was spent on them from the budget? How much is planned in the 2011 budget to spend on this financial adventure? What are the concrete effects of their effectiveness or ineffectiveness of staying and representing Serbia abroad? These are very specific issues, announced last year, and Serbia expected much of it. I think everything that's been promised, what's been said, is gone. If this isn't the time, when we talk about the 2011 budget, about what's been announced to be a revolutionary change that's about to be seen right in the budget, then I don't think there's any other time when these questions need to be asked. I'm expecting answers from the Resort Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49188	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a little over a month since I've asked my first questions about Moby 063 and selling Moby 063 to a Norwegian operator without getting any answers to today. Among other things, I asked the prosecution, the Ministry of Finance, and the Agency for Business Registers, and there is no single answer. I also warn Serbian citizens that there is a huge crime and robbery going on behind this. I expected Mrs. Kolundzija to continue her interest in this case and that she would help, as it was in the case of "Luke Belgrade" and "News" to reveal some things and finally come up with some truth. It's just amazing what kind of state we live in. What does it take to get answers to parliamentary questions? And very simple answers. There's no answer to today, and there's a Telecom sale coming up. Until this affair is resolved, it is absolutely necessary to prohibit the sale of Telecom, because the same actors who participated, I am sure, in the robbery over 400m euros should sell Telecom. It's something that has to be prevented. How can you let something that is most valuable in this country be sold without discovering the background of how Moby 063 was formed, how it was sold, and where is the money? My people, it's not small money. That's 400m euros. I don't know what it takes for you to start to, if anything, at least get an answer, and then start an investigation. I don't understand what the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is doing? Because of "Luke Belgrade" and "News" criminal charges have been filed against both organised crime prosecutors and against the republican public prosecutor, because they had all the information and did nothing to initiate the investigation and that those responsible for crime have been prosecuted. Now it's happening again. I'm asking the D.A.'s office again, the M.O., the Business Register Agency, first of all, what about the contributions to the establishment of Moby 063? You know, when a company is founded and any company, you have contributions that confirm what the founding stake is in such a company. Mobi 63, missing contributions, a total of 131 million, a part invested by the Republic of Serbia, a part invested by the founder of Cyprus Holdenhrust Holdin, and to this day there is no answer. How, then, is it also possible for Mladjan Dinkic's face to establish Mobi 63? How is it possible for Mladjan Dinkić, as a physical person, to hand over the papers at the Business Registers Agency? Where are these contributions? How long do you think you're hiding? We won't give up these questions until we get answers because after this, there's even more crime coming. There's 198 million missing, as much as the sale of Moby 63 Telenor's. On one page, it says that the sale price is a billion and 513 million, and on the other page – a billion and 315 million. We have asked a very simple question, to get an answer – how much is paid in that account and to whom is the funds paid? Is 198 million lost? There's no answer. When do you think you can answer? When do you sell Telekom? Also, we asked the Ministry of Finance, the minister will be here in a minute – is it true that 96 million deposits were paid by Holdenhurst Holdin, because that money was paid to the company? There's no answer. What's behind this? Those to whom I ask the question know it's a crime. They know it's a crime, and it's a big crime. There's one more thing in the background, I won't go public with it yet, but there's a big robbery here and there's the deception of Serbian citizens. Therefore, Madam Chairman, I ask you, as Parliament, to insist with the state authorities who are obliged to answer these questions, to deliver an answer to the SRS tactfully as we have asked questions – what is it and where is the money? This is an extremely big robbery, and we shouldn't go over it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49190	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, report to use their right under Article 286? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Lasslo Varga and Miroslav Markicevic. At this time, and before moving to a common principle search, pursuant to Articles 27, Article 90(2) and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing the National Assembly that a brief period will now be set and that we will continue at 11.00 hours, taking care of the consistency of the working bodies, that at 11.00 hours we will continue to work and then open the agenda of the joint search. Until then, all deadlines for the Rules of Procedure are still under way before the opening point. We'll be working today after 1800 hours, until the debate of the joint principled search is over. The usual one-hour break will be set between 17.00 and 18.00 hours. Thank you. We'll continue work at 11.00 hours. [[After break – 11.20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. The apology that the break was set until 11.00 p.m., it is now 11.20 p.m., I apologize to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, but the extended time that has been given to ensure that the work of the working bodies is harmonised and that no other provisions of the Rules of Procedures from me are significantly violated by the MPs' personal apology. Notification of the invited to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the proposing representative, Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, called for the meetings to attend: Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Radina Todovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ruzica Stojljković, Assistant Minister of Finance Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ljiljana Petrovic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Finance, Bogdan Popovic, Special Advisor of Finance and Nada Mirkovic, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Finance. I also remind you that the session is also attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, and on the basis of Article 271. Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the Prime Minister is always welcome to explain the draft laws that the Government is proposing to the National Assembly. We're continuing our work. We are moving to a joint groundbreaking of the 7-13rd agenda: –PROGRAMMES ON THE BUDGET OF SERBIA FOR 2011. The year with the accompanying documents, amendments to the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on payment, the Taxation on Value, the Act on Exciseness, the Law on Taxation on Use, the Law on Taxation of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 with the proposals for amendments to the Financial Plans for 2011 and this: 1) of the Republic Fund on PIO, 2) the Republic of principled examination of the Law on the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 with proposals for amending and supplementing the Law on amending and supplementing the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Payment, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection and the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Laws, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Laws and the Laws on Payment, the Laws on the Laws, the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws and the Law on the Laws on the Laws, on the Law on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws on the Laws and the Laws, on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws and the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws on the Laws, and the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws and the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws, the Laws, the Laws, on the Laws, and the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws and the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws on the Laws, and the Laws, and the Laws, on the Laws and the Laws, on the Laws, on the Laws, and the Laws, on the Laws, and the Laws, on the Laws, and the Laws A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on the 7-13rd item of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic is in the electronic system, you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49192	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is a number of questions to you, I think you have an old script, because the Law on Payments has been withdrawn from the session of this agenda, and yet you have read it that we will discuss it. I'm just asking if he's retired or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49193	You're right, the notice that the government withdrew the bill was given yesterday, a list of all the laws, we voted on a timely proposal to merge the dots and a joint principled search. However, the government has withdrawn the bill from the procedure, and it will not be the subject of our work, but it cannot stand either in my motion to merge the debate, so neither for the further course of the debate. Thanks for the intervention. This bill is, as the Assembly was informed yesterday, withdrawn from the procedure. Therefore, the time of the parliamentary groups is allocated to the same number of members of the MPs' groups and so that they have: the MP group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for a word, with a series of MPs, and no later than the time when the reading opens a common principle search. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Zoran Kasalović – MP group SPS-JS; MP Ivan Andric – LDP; MP Nenad Popović – DSS; National MP Vlajko Senic – G 17 plus; and SRS parliamentary group – MP Dragan Stevanović. If any other parliamentary group wishes to authorise any member of their representative, please inform us about this, so that we can inform the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary group may also have the power at any time of the session to represent the group, only the time available to the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. If all parliamentary groups have submitted the lists or given amendments and additions to the lists, and if not, I would ask that they do so now, before the opening of a common principle search. The ZES parliamentary group has a change, one change and a supplement, and one name for the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals on granting consent to the financial plans for 2011 and this: 1) of the Republic Fund on PIO, 2) of the Republic of Serbia's Institute for Health Insurance and 3) of the National Employment Service, then on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Asset Taxes, Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Pension and Disabilities. Does the representative of Proposer Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? The Prime Minister wants a word. Here's to the pay phone. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49194	Dear People's MPs, MPs, you have before you a draft budget for 2011 in which two are respected for the economic recovery of key principles, which are development and savings. Today, even far richer countries than Serbia are not easy to speed up development and increase savings. I therefore point out that the proposed budget is primarily real and represents an objective reflection of our country's economic strength. The proposed budget is in the role of the country's long-term development, reviving the economy and raising the country's social responsibility. There are big plans and big obligations ahead of Serbia. These are: the path to Europe, the fundamental and vital reforms, the revitalisation of the economy, the construction of infrastructure, the stabilisation of the region, etc. Even the malicious cannot challenge the fact that this government is achieving serious results in achieving all these national goals. But to achieve these goals, Serbia needs first and foremost to be strong and stable. The role of the government is to ensure the vital functioning of the state and the dignity of the lives of the citizens, which provides for such a budget. Serbia, which has been under sanctions for more than a decade, has lost friends and business partners, with atrophy, and in wars destroyed by economic resources, the global economic crisis has not devastated. We avoided the worst, we prevented the collapses of the economy, the bankruptcy of banks and businesses and mass layoffs of workers. Many countries that have been in a much better position than we have been have been far worse. It didn't happen on its own, nor were we accidentally spared the worst. This government has taken serious and timely anti-crisis measures behind us during the difficult year, and in the year ahead, which will be easier, the government will lead a secure and stable policy, without risk, without improvisation, without experimentation and without moves that would interfere with the democratic development of the country. I would like to remind you that in 2011 it is actually the year in which the new model of economic development is beginning to be realized, which should essentially put Serbia's economy on its good feet, and this budget is just being directed towards that goal. Serbia's proposed budget, as one of the country's pillars of economic policy, is an incentive, as it provides support for business and industrial development, exports and envisions the realisation of significant infrastructure projects. He's also thrifty because he reduces public spending. The budget is stable because it ensures the smooth functioning of vital state functions. Finally, the budget is socially responsible because it provides the necessary state protection to vulnerable populations. Finally, I would like to ask you to consider the proposed budget professionally and responsibly, if possible, freed party acuity, given that it is a document of vital importance for all citizens and for the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49195	I ask, does he want the word of the proposing minister, finance minister, Diana Dragutinovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49196	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are before you the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia and following tax and financial laws. This is the seventh budget in the government's mandate, which lasts 30 months, which means that the average budget cycle, including negotiations with the IMF, budget users and adoption in parliament, lasts about four months. Budgeting is a difficult process in all countries, in all times, not only in Serbia, not just now at this political and economic moment. And just because it's a difficult process, the standard is to work once a year in stable conditions, undermining. In times of crisis, a large number of countries in the region, in the EU, had two to three rebalances during 2009 and 2010. So it's not just happening to us, and that's why it doesn't have to be imagined that it's only happening to us, and that's why it's impossible to always respect the calendar, no matter how important it is. In this place, honourable MPs, I would also like to refer to the reasons that led to the delay, i.e. the subsequent reference of the Republic of Serbia's budget to parliament. In 2010, it's certainly another difficult year. Because the economy is slowly recovering. This primarily affected the modest growth of tax revenues. So slower economic growth affects the country's budget situation twice as negative. It reduces income growth and increases expenditure growth. Slowed revenue growth has made it difficult to establish strict spending limits for each resolution ministry in planning their budgets. The problem emerged when a memorandum was created within the ministry's budget limits as early as June. A low level of income has caused limited space to finance new policies for 2011. Under these circumstances, fiscal objectives could only be achieved by way of derogation from existing policies, by reviewing existing policies, by setting more modest targets for implementing other policies. The solution to cover this deficit, which amounted to around 17 billion dinars in June, was delayed for the later budget process, given the uncertain trend in economic growth. The problem is getting worse during the summer and autumn. Although tax estimates have not been reduced, expenditure on various types of social expenditure has been increased. The country's deficit was to be met in 2011 by 4.1% of the social product. Achieving this target deficit, agreed with the IMF, was a difficult and long-term process. I would like 2011 to be a year of dynamic economic growth, stable and that this is our first and last budget for 2011. But I have to say from this place, there's still a lot of uncertainty ahead of us when it comes to recovery speed. I will try to expose all the restrictions we have faced and all the struggles that have been fought in the budgetary process so far. The programme with the IMF presented and set up major global frameworks when the total public revenues and expenditures are at stake. The fiscal rules adopted in the Budgetary System Act have laid down general fiscal rules: the public debt deficit rule, the pay and pension indexation rule and the golden investment rule. Of course, the restrictions were also the rights of local self-government and AP Vojvodina. Other laws regarding different types of non-discretional expenditures, the fight over priorities within the coalition government, the fight of the finance minister against all and there is another, probably the most important fight, not behind the scenes anymore, but in the political arena here before you. The economic moment characterizes the growth of GDP of 1.5% of the region's largest, but inflation is accelerating and is 10.6% at the moment and is also, unfortunately, the largest in the region. Export is a major driver of development, price competitiveness satisfactory. The balance deficit is around 2.5 billion euros, 8% of the social product, before the crisis reached 6 billion euros, so 18% of the social product, large adjustments were made. The improvement of the external trade balance continues, but the imbalance of the balance of payments is still high. Capital inflows are no longer sufficient to finance a reduced deficit. A series of debt crises in Europe slows down capital mobility, which has an adverse effect on the rapid recovery of Serbia's economy. Such macroeconomic movements set strict goals for fiscal policy. Reduced deficit is a priority from almost 4.8% to 4.1%) of the social product. Control salary growth and pensions, change the structure of public expenditure, apply fiscal rules now and after the programme with the IMF. The state of public debt in the Republic of Serbia is 11.6 billion euros and 38.8% of the social product, which is within the defined general fiscal rule of 45%. If we start from the rigid assumption that privatisation revenues will not be used for early repayment of debt, the deficit we will have at the end of 2011 is about 42% of the social product. I'd ask you to look at the amount of guarantees and new borrowings in the next light. So project loans, software loans and guarantees are realised on average by about 30%. The projects are being negotiated and withdrawn for several years, but the existence of appropriate projects in the budget is a condition for the negotiations to begin. So the same loans and guarantees exist in the budget for several years. The basis for the 2011 budget is also to amend several tax laws. I'd say changing tax laws isn't significant. The first law to be amended is the VAT Act. So, according to European directives, it is proposed to tax the southern fruit, personal computers and components consisting of personal computers, transport, services and accommodation in hotels, motels, homes, camps at a general VAT rate of 18%. Also, the Excise Act has been amended, only in that area regarding the taxation of cigarettes. Further harmonisation of the excise policy with EU regulations and standards is foreseen when it comes to minimum excise duties. So in 2011, the amount of the specific excise duty on cigarettes will be 26 dinars. It's only different for 2.5 dinars compared to the Action Plan. Since 1 January 2012, only in a specific excise of ad valorem remains unchanged – 35% and will amount to 30 dinars. You also have before you changes to the property tax law. The law assumes simplicity, which means a smaller number of tax rates, a fairer distribution of tax burdens, a relatively economic wealth of taxpayers. The tax base of the property tax is reduced by the amount of the difference in current and proposed depreciation rate. So the current amortisation rate is 1.5%, and it decreases to 0.8%. Also, the tax base for the amount of depreciation that could have been up to 70%, in the current proposal can be up to 40%. I underline that the tax rate on property is practically the limit central government places on local levels, so up to 0.3% on land. Of course it can be less, local self-government can best determine it. For other immobilities up to 0.4%. Of course it can be less, it's in the hands of local self-government. The amount of tax credit has changed. Tax credit is no longer expressed in a relative amount of 40% plus 10% for each household member, up to 70%. So the tax credit is now expressed by an absolute amount of 10,000 dinars, up to 50% of the tax liability. Also, changes or small changes occurred in inheritance and gift taxes. It is proposed to exempt from the taxation of mopeds, motocultivators, tractors, working machines, to extend the subject of taxation, in the sense that the gift is also considered to cover the taxpayer's expenditure. The tax base is the market value at which the proportional rate applies. Tax release has increased from 9,000 to 30,000 dinars. Also, the tax on the transfer of absolute rights is consistent with the previous tax. It is proposed to exempt from the taxation of mopeds, motocultivators, tractors and other working machines. Obligations are introduced to state authorities and organisations, as well as to territorial autonomy authorities, to provide data free of charge to units of local self-government that are available for the purpose of determining the property tax. Also, minor changes have been made within the scope of the tax on use, holding and carrying goods. The most important change is the abolition of the mobile phone tax, starting on 1 January 2011. The exemption is extended on the basis of taxes on the use of motor vehicles and taxes on the use of the vessel and reduced the amount of taxes on motorcycles and certain vessels. Smaller changes have also been made under the Budgetary System Act. First of all, the lack of accuracy of some members who spoke about income and expenditure was corrected, although they spoke about income and income, expenditure and expenditure. Certainly, the most important change is to amend the specific fiscal rules in the function of achieving the target deficit. What are the macroeconomic assumptions of the 2011 budget? Real economic growth projections are 3% of the social product. So it was unchanged, although inflation was projected at the end of 2010 at 10.6% above the target of 6 plus minus 2. The National Bank continues to target 4.5% inflation with possible oscillations plus-minus 1.5% by the end of 2011. The budget for 2011 is in line with the fiscal rules laid down in the Budgetary System Act. The target deficit of the general government level is 140 billion dinars, or 4.1%) of the social product. I want to say from this place once again that it is necessary to have a deficit in the coming years, to ensure a solid economic recovery, and with the support of monetary policy, without the pressure on inflation. It is very important that we understand that it is impossible to reduce the deficit overnight, but it is possible to curb fiscal expectations. Therefore, the main objectives of this budget are to reduce the budget deficit to what has been defined by the Budgetary System Act, and in the function of achieving the deficit, as I mentioned, it was necessary to adapt the specific fiscal rules to achieving the general objectives. The main elements of the 2011 budget: total income and income amounts to around 803 billion dinars, so 724.4 billion budget revenues and about 76.4 billion dinars of their own income. Total expenditures and expenditures were defined at 897.5 billion dinars, 818.4 budget and 76.4 of their own. The budget deficit is 94 billion and when we add to the acquisition of financial assets to implement a public policy of 26.25 billion dinars, the planned total fiscal result is 120.5 billion. Basically, budget revenues have been increased compared to the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget by 65 billion dinars, budget expenditures also by 65 billion dinars, budget deficits and the general fiscal result are nominally the same. The most important characteristics of the 2011 budget are the defreezing of salaries and pensions since January, with growth being limited to 2%. However, this budget implies a more significant growth in the lowest pensions, i.e. minimum pensions and the lowest earnings. This growth enables the general rule of the fiscal deficit not to be jeopardised and a medium-term reduction of salary and pension expenditure to 8 and 10% of the social product, respectively. The next essential feature is that we gradually return transfers to local self-government to the level they had before the crisis. So this budget means that the funds are up by 25%. The amount of subsidies from the Republic budget was frozen at the level of 2010, except for subsidies granted to the public company "The Railways" and coal mines "Resavica", since these subsidies are paid to employees, so that the earnings of employees in these public enterprises will share the fate of employees in the country as a whole. There were frozen fiscal incentives, i.e. subsidized loans at the level they had in 2010, with another major change being made, meaning all the stimulation and necessary investments concerning the "Fiyat" from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's portfolio have moved to the Ministry of Finance. Capital expenditures are limited to 32 billion dinars, that's just, I repeat, budget funds. The priority will be given to a small number of large projects, I purposely underline that these are only budget funds, that loans of 1.1 billion euros have been granted so far for large investment projects. There is a significant increase in social protection, according to different basics – children, families, material security of the family, disabled – 90 billion dinars were allocated. I would like to mention again from this place that we have 54,500 users of martial law, 67,000 different rights, 34,500 maternity care, 64,500 parental supplement users, 400,000 children receiving child support, 70,000 families and 180,000 family security users; foster families are around 5,400 children; 54,000 are users of other people's care and help. What usually attracts the most attention of your MPs is discretionary expenditures, those expenditures through which the government manages its economic, above all fiscal policy. Discretional expenditures in their nominal amount are unchanged compared to the 2010 budget. They amount to 113.5 billion dinars, 55 subsidies, 26.5 billion subsidies and 32 billion capital expenditures. In the end, about funding. Like I said, the deficit is 12.5 billion dinars. Loan payments amount to 75 billion dinars for bonds from the London Club "Star", in foreign exchange savings, and payments from principals on previously taken loans. This will be financed by vault records and loans, using funds for the consolidated Treasury account, neutral funds from this year and, of course, funds derived from privatisation will reduce the need for borrowing. This is the budget that leads us to the goal we set ourselves for 2015. It is a step that leads us to this goal, and the goal is, again, to reduce the fiscal deficit to 1% of the social product, which is 0.75% per year on average. Stabilising public expenditure at around 42%, stabilising public debt, changing the structure of public expenditure and keeping fiscal policy in line with the principle of intergenerational justice. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are before you the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia and following the laws. This budget really requires social cohesion. That's his basic assumption. So I ask you in the voting day, no matter what side you're on, to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49197	National MP Radojko Obradovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49198	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, There are a few other members, but in short. This morning we received, as each of the laws states who was authorised by the Government, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act does not have an authorised representative, and this morning, right after the questions were completed, we received information that Mrs Diana Dragutinović was authorised in front of the government. I suppose Mrs Dragutinovic didn't say a single word about the law to the prom, but I think it would be very important to tell us what is changing in that law. I don't know if she got that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49199	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you know as well as I do. The Rules of Procedure require the Government to inform the National Assembly of who is the government's representative and that the MPs have been met, and you are informed that it is for the agenda point quoted by the authorised finance minister Diana Dragutinovic. What you want, to present with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the content of the exhibit, I cannot help you there. You'll have to do that with the minister through the replicas and everything, because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you not to throw up your lines, since your stenograms are denying you how many session sessions you had last week. The replica is not allowed when it is unfounded and there is no need, and whenever it is founded it is obtained. Do the committees want the word? Given that, on the basis of Article 171 of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, almost all the committees of the National Assembly are in charge, I call none of the committee presidents, or rapporteurs, in particular. Any president or committee reporter wants to use his right to speak, please sign up. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want to start from the smallest to the greatest? Yeah. ) National MP Momo Colaković has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49200	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected minister and government representatives, respected MPs, the 2011 draft budget law, as the minister pointed out, envisioned a total of nearly 900 billion dinars and expenditures also with around 140 billion deficits. What we could see on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group was that both income and expenditure were balanced at the level of 2010, which is positive and good for us. On the other hand, the amount of public debt for 2010 is around 150 billion euros, and the interior public debt, according to the minister, is about 11 billion euros. The largest funds are provided for the finance ministry and over 180 billion dinars. As for the donations of the PIO Fund, they have increased to 200.1 billion or something more than five billion in 2010 compared to the budget rebalances of 195.2 billion. The infrastructure ministry envisions an increase of around 1.6 billion dinars. On the other hand, the Ministry of National Investment Plan envisions nearly 20 billion more, i.e. from 12.6 billion to 32.4 billion, and should in particular point out that the funds are primarily intended for investment in development and infrastructure, which is acceptable to us. On the other hand, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will have more than 118 billion dinars, some seven billion more than in 2010. The Republic-based PIO Fund plans current revenues of nearly 500 billion, namely 498.8 billion, from 257.5.1 contributions and from transfers at the level of other ministries 230.9 and other transfers from organisations, insurance, seven billion. If all these figures are compared, it can be concluded that this is one of the budgets that managed to reconcile, at first sight, the opposing objectives, which are greater investment and isolation for development, for infrastructure, as well as greater social giving. I think it's a big success. Since this was carried out at a time when the economic crisis is still going on and still very strongly affecting the economic crisis, with about the same deficit compared to 2010 and with a higher amount of funds to repay debts on foreign loans, it is becoming even more relevant. The PIO, as well as other types of social security, social assistance, the PUPS parliamentary group considers that the amounts drawn are well set because, for all these purposes, adequate funds are provided at the same amount as for 2010, meaning in real terms or something and increased. In view of the balance between development investment policies on the one hand and on the other side of social policies, and thus to provide social security and stability in addition to economic development and investment, the PUPS Group will therefore support the Budget Act for the coming year and 2011 respectively. We will also support all other laws that ensure the implementation of the 2011 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49201	Six minutes and 20 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word has an MP named Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49202	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a happy and happy day for all who are concerned about the principle of constitutionality in the Republic of Serbia, and a sad day for the reserve players of the ruling majority in the National Assembly, as SVM will vote in favour of the proposed 2011 budget. We will vote in favour of this proposal because it was the first time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has referred the proposal to the assembly procedure, which is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 184. I would certainly like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this goal has now been achieved in the fifth year of application or application of this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. With careful reading we have found that the constitutional minimum of 7% is respected, but that is not the problem all these years, the problem was whether the provision on whether at least three weeks of budgets should be defined for capital expenditures in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. If we know that the proposed budget of the province, which is discussed at these times by the circuit assembly, 60.7 billion dinars, then it is easy to conclude that the minimum sum of amounts that must be defined for capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is 26 billion dinars. With careful budget reading, we have established that 27.2 billion dinars for capital investments have been allocated to the AP Vojvodina territory for 2011, namely 9.8 billion through the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, 6 billion dinars for 110 projects in co-operation with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia to encourage the construction industry under the conditions of the economic crisis, 6.1 billion dinars will be provided for capital investments through the regional authorities of the administration. The funding of billions and 300 million dinars is planned for development, i.e. for credit arrangements through the province funds, i.e. The Fund for Development, the Guarantee Fund and the Fund for the Development of Agriculture of the AP Vojvodina. The funds amounting to two billion dinars are reserved under the Ministry of Finance's division on behalf of the ongoing transfer of the AP Vojvodina budget in order to provide the level and structure of the AP Vojvodina budget. At least a billion dinars through the NIP and at least a billion dinars from the Ministry of Infrastructure, or the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. If we look at it again, let me say, what is the sum of these amounts defined for capital investments by the proposal for the province's budget and the proposal for the Republic's 2011 budget, then we come up with a collection of 27.2 billion dinars. That is why we can state that the proposal is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I find it very important to stress that this is the first budget to take care of the structure of the income of the AP Vojvodina. This is the first budget that does not view Vojvodina as a flow water heater, does not look at it as having to respect only those 7% and it is not about what it was in previous years that almost all funds were transferable funds for education salaries, transfer funds for local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, etc. So the proposal is in accordance with the Constitution, but we cannot, of course, be satisfied with the proposal. We believe that in the economy of the Republic of Serbia there is a catastrophic situation, on the one hand. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I hope that this projection will be carried out and fully respected. I hope there will be no rebalancing in 2011, because we would have to again count whether Vojvodina gets what it needs under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that we are confident that it was worth voting against the 2010 budget. It is because of this, we are punished by being expelled from the city and municipal authorities in Subotica and Senta, but our face remains clean and this has led to the RS government's taking care of the respect of the Constitution. It was also worth voting for an anti-constitutional rebalancing in 2010, because we showed good intentions, regardless of what this rebalancing, as we said then, was not in line with the Constitution, but after that statement, the talks began on finding a common power solution that would lead to a proposal that fully respects the RS Constitution in relation to the financing of the AP Vojvodina. This is the first budget that not only thinks about 7% but also about three weeks, the first budget that thinks about capital investments in Vojvodina territory. I'm glad it gave up the borrowing model or the introduction of new tax types. These were the solutions that you, Madam Minister, offered us on November 25th when we held a nice debate at the National Assembly on budget rebalancing for 2010. It can be achieved respect for the Constitution and without introducing new types of tax on the territory of Vojvodina or excessive borrowing. I must appeal once again to draw your attention to two things. The first thing is that we hope that these figures will not be made worse by accepting some amendment. It was a precedent in 2008 when you accepted an amendment from the opposition NIS party, which made it impossible for 90% of NIS Vojvodina's sales price to be obtained immediately. We got 50%, and we haven't won 40% yet. I don't know if it makes sense to ask you when Vojvodina will get that 40% NIS sales price contained in the 2009 budget? There's nothing in the 2010 budget, there's no budget for 2011, and I don't know if there's any or all of that money that's been spent past the 2009 budget provisions. Another thing I want to draw your attention to is that these figures are respected and that we have no problem at the end of 2011 with voting for a budget that was in line with the Constitution, but has not been realised in a way that is also respected in practice. In the end, I'd like to say a few more sentences about the items in the budget. I don't understand how it's possible that only 65.3 million dinars are planned for the Restitution Directorate. I don't know how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to pass a restitution law and start a restitution in 2011 when no minimum funds are planned, and you, Madam Minister, have repeatedly announced that the rebalancing will not be. I hope there won't be any rebalancing, and where we're going to have to count again if there's 7% and three weeks, and that I have to admit to you, it takes a lot of time, and that's why I hope there won't be a rebalance. If there's no rebalancing, I don't know how we're going to start with the restitution in 2011. I think it's about time we started this process. At the same time, we are satisfied with the amount planned for the National Council of National Minorities. That's an amount of 284.5 million dinars. This is an increase, not a big one, but considering that the funds for this purpose in 2010 were planned at 237 million dinars. We are also pleased that the National Assembly will have more money in 2011. It is of paramount importance to us that we will again have the means to translate certain laws into the languages of national minorities. The programme existed two years ago in 2008, but because of lack of funding, the National Assembly was unable to secure the amounts for that purpose. At the same time, I have to tell you that we absolutely disagree with the layoffs for the agrarian budget. That's what the Minister of Agriculture said. I know that all ministers are dissatisfied, but if we have agriculture as the only branch of the RS economy that continues to operate with surpluses, and that surplus was about a billion dollars in 2010, then we really don't understand why the state, or the government, is no longer paying attention to the agricultural budget and agriculture. It is good that local self-government will receive more funding than in 2010, but we will agree that this budget proposal is still against the law in relation to the financing of local self-government, still not respecting the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government. I know you don't have a problem saying that either. That's what you said yesterday and on the Finance Committee, but we also have to find on the tide that local self-government won't get the amount that belongs to them in 2011 under the Law on the financing of local self-government, regardless of which they will get almost a quarter more, or eight billion dinars, compared to the 2010 budget. In the end, I'd like to speak very briefly about some tax laws. First of all, the law on changes and additions to the property tax. We are pleased that in 2011, these tax procedures will not be as high, there will be no such tax as was assumed a few days or a week ago. I must also tell you that it is clear that we disagree with the transfer of responsibility to local self-government. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a very wise decision that the tax on property is 0.4% maximum and that local self-government will decide which rate will apply on its territory, as you said Mrs Dragutinovic, that will be done by municipalities and cities, given the fact that they have poor or wealthy citizens. I don't know if the municipalities have wealthy citizens at the end of 2010 in most cases or in terms of the population. We think this is about transferring responsibility to local self-government. Local self-government still doesn't have their property, they barely have some original income. That's why they don't have much. If they want to survive, then they will be very hard to decide that they will apply a rate lower than 0.4% compared to the property tax. Therefore, I appeal once again to the government and expect the answer, when does the Government of the Republic of Serbia think to refer to the procedure of the Public Property Act and the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, the province's taxes account for only 0.005% of the AP Vojvodina budget. Vojvodina is still financed by the only part of the income tax and part of the company's profits tax, regardless of the recent changes and additions of the Budgetary System Act left the government with the possibility of determining other types of tax as sources of funding for the AP Vojvodina. This has not yet been done, and the Law on Public Property is not yet in the assembly procedure, regardless of the government's deadline until the end of 2008 under the Constitution to refer the proposal to the assembly procedure, more specifically, that the National Assembly adopts a law on public property. You will have our support for this draft budget. At the same time, I expect an answer to certain questions. Mrs Dragutinovic, the most important answer would be to the question when can we expect a proposal for a law on public property and a bill on the financing of the AP Vojvodina? I think those laws would solve some big problems, so we don't have to count on Saturdays and Sundays seven percent and three weeks, but so that the government of the Republic of Serbia can get into budgetary debates more easily next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49203	Eighteen minutes and 20 seconds of time spent by the president of the parliamentary group. Does MP Velimir Ilic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49204	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have again received a draft budget for 2011 in the sky. Now we've been tasked with adopting him as soon as possible. I was saddened the other day, when you unfortunately warned me about my intervention and punished me, when the minister was given the day before the government's local administration session said he hadn't seen the draft budget yet. It was hours before the government adopted. How could the minister read a thousand pages and simply vote, and give his opinions on such short notice? My objection was completely justified. Today, we want to hide the draft budget law from the public, so we've passed two laws that follow it in the package, which are very important laws, the Law on PIO and the Law on property tax. These are two important laws and almost no one will discuss them today. Everyone will talk about the budget, because the budget is still the law that is most important during a calendar year. No one will notice that he will pass and vote on a law that is disastrous for pensioners after an inflation of 11% expected this year, after the purchase of 34% of life supplies in 2010, after what is predicted, you see that they demand that the electricity collect up to 60%, and the property tax is approved to collect up to 60%. That pension increase is so minor, it's one crumb compared to those gatherings that will be in next year. I can say that next year is an extremely difficult year for pensioners in Serbia. I can't understand that some people look at it easily and say it – we get it and we're satisfied. What'd you get? Property law? It will simply be a law that will burden all citizens of Serbia and collect the little funds they have, because local administrations to survive will have to increase it. You know that now we have big problems in the state, that many of the objects that have been built, dedicated, empty, are not working. In this law, I will pay the most citizens of Serbia, because they pay the real value of their property and tax on that real value. The tycoons will pay at least there, because they pay for an accounting value that is extremely small in certain companies and it will be a difficult year for citizens of Serbia. We have now received a draft budget that is very easy and very irresponsible, extremely confusingly presented by Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic. I was expecting a serious exposure from the prime minister and the finance minister. But the prime minister came with his mandatory smile, held one of his exposés for a few minutes. He said this next year would be better than this year in 2010. Greetings and gone. The problems are left. When you look, the same thing happens in the previous budget. Most importantly for Serbia, this next year is the election year for the ruling coalition. When you look at the budget, you see it's just promises, projects. One highway will be designed and started, moreover, Pojate, Preljina, Belgrade – Cačak and Cačak – Požega, corridors and all that. As was the election campaign, when you gentlemen from the ruling coalition came to power and when you said – not one highway, four highways, when you shut down a concession that was an extremely large investment in Serbia and an excellent investment and when you have now introduced Turkish firms without a tender, where you mention only some memorandum of co-operation that was signed, and you already put it in and plan it as some investments that will be in next year. It's all not on a long stick, it's on too long a stick. Who gives you the right to introduce this Serbia more into investments, "a throat into strawberries", without goal, without plan, without project, without tender. It's not true that you didn't have any projects, gentlemen, which you're showing through this budget rebalance, these controversial highways, here, mention the idea projects where everything is fully worked out. But why wasn't a project done? Because you don't know the performer, which technology they're going to work on, and that's left to end when the performers are chosen. What was the problem with complete completion of the project documentation? It was the Ministry of Finance, you know that by law it needs to be given 1% for environmental science on the highways. So as soon as you hand over the project, you have to pay it. Do you know what 1% is on one highway? These are funds that have not been provided and therefore could not have been handed over and called in and officially obtained papers on these projects. However, projects exist. You're talking about big investments now. If the Ministry of Infrastructure at its investment division has a billion and 200 million dinars, what can we expect from the infrastructure? You've put all the money back together in the NIP, a NIP that doesn't exist anywhere in any normal state. That's what we have here. When Gilas was supposed to come to the government, he insisted on opening the NIP Ministry and we built it. Again, like this year, here, look at the Budget Law, all the money is in the Ministry of Economy, i.e. Dinkic and the NIP. The country's full money is in the hands of two ministers, and therefore, of course, they will make regional centres, propose, do whatever they want, and everyone else will depend on them. Why doesn't every ministry define its investment position and when we adopt the budget law we know exactly what we adopted and what is being done and built this year, which project is being done and built? That's how it's always been in all the serious governments before your government. Now it's all been pushed into the NIP, into these 30 and some billion, and, of course, into the Ministry of Economy, and they've given their free hands that simple ministers can do literally whatever they want and that the government regulations of that money are walking, moving and working with them. It is extremely important that you have approved the government's duties this year and the level of guarantees in 2011 is almost a billion dollars, two billion euros and a hundred million euros and two billionaires. So, the country's extremely high debt will be and it's planned in the budget to be so much guarantee that it simply shows that we will have great responsibilities, as in this year and next year. How are we gonna get that back? In what way? Madam Minister, the highway Novi Sad – Subotica, which is now in debt and under construction, has been charged for 20 years. He will not bring in a dinar of new revenues when the investment is completed, but will bring in new expenses for credit service, credit lines and maintenance of the highway. You know that only maintenance of the highway costs about 3,000 euros per mile. Therefore, there will be no new revenues from investments invested in. For the first time, Mrs Dragutinovic appeared in the Ministry of Finance and the item that 4.4 billion dinars were allocated for the Fiat, and so the item appears in the Ministry of Economy, to be re-separated to the "Fiyat", and to the requirements of the "Fiyat" in the infrastructure he sets as a condition to come to work in Serbia, and you promised, when it entered the programme with the "Fiyat", this government, at the beginning of its term, promised 200 thousand "full" to be exported to the Russian market in 2010 and there is nothing. Here, again big investment subsidies, for bringing foreign investors, and this is the type of factory "Jura", which was just a cover to talk and write about. What are the effects of these investments when you give a stranger? In particular, you paid Gornja per employee to open a white-tech factory, and during that period you closed the Serbian white-tech factory which was a pioneer and for Burning, it was "Freedom Cačak". So, when the washing machine, when the stove, vacuum cleaner and all the other rules "Freedom Cacak", "burning" didn't exist as a company and exported it to the Russian market. But your policy, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, was such that you decided, simply, it is not your interest to invest in certain environments, in certain factories, but it is your interest to stimulate one of the employees of a foreigner who comes to Serbia, and Serbian companies opening up the same month he opens them up, immediately become fines, commitments and bring them to the beggar stick, of course, extremely heavy, unfavourable loans commercially, with large interest, and for them the retailes were closed, except for the regime firms, your party officials, were closed funds for development and everything else. The question is, therefore, how do you survive the budget that is unrealized, which is full of borrowings, which are filled with promises of empty, and empty with various subsidies given in one large item regulated here through the NIP and the Ministry of Economy and where this parliament has no control mechanism. Why are you running away? To define the point of investment, investment, promotion of exports and incentives for employment in each ministry, that we can today when we talk about the budget to discuss concrete figures and that we know exactly that the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, will have so much and so much resources, that they will invest in these and those positions that will be adopted today and that, as Parliament, we can control these funds. So, you've simply glued a number over the NIP here and you'll have Mrs. Kalanovic walking around Serbia and as Santa Claus, who's nice to her, who wants to go to regions like it did in Raca, you want to go to us -- you'll get this, you won't get it with us -- you have nothing. You are completely politicizing one thing that is extremely important and important to Serbia. Who authorized you to give the NIP 32,394,000 thousand dinars and say, "Here's that for you, so do what you know?" Are ministers so incompetent? Is Mr. Mrkonjic incapacitated that the Ministry of Infrastructure correctly has defined its position and its investments as it has always been in the Ministry? Why can't you define what will be invested in the building, how and how, but everything depends on the NIP? You'll give them credit. You'll give credit. So there's none of it. You promised a share of the Belgrade-Cacchak highway in the past budget. Why didn't you make it? You didn't move on that stock. You haven't done a hundred meters. Last year we discussed here, and it was said that there was one first section of the highway. It's not gonna happen. You haven't even defined basic positions yet. Where will the highway leave Belgrade? You're just distracting the citizens of Serbia. It's a little bit small for you now, so you're saying you're going to be doing a piece of highway around the Tombs. That's very important, you know, Mr. Sutanovac when he goes into the bag to say -- here we start your highway, so we'll start there by 20 meters. It's very important, and it's part of the Pojata corridor, you'll start around Kruševec, you'll start all over. You know how our people say, "When a glare wants to mark its mark, what does it do?" Therefore, this is incorrect to the citizens of Serbia. You announce some positions, some items, some works that have nothing. You guys here are all the highways you're going to build, so you can come here to the World Bank, to give you all the funds you want, you can't physically do it during your term of office. Gentlemen, you've only got one more construction season, you've got to start full steam in April, and you didn't redefine here. You are offering us in the main investment budget for Serbia signed memos between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Turkish officials who visited Serbia. What guarantee is that when it's going to be done? What are we talking about here? Where are your guarantees that the citizens of Serbia will start hiring. The ruling coalition is responsible for the extremely high unemployment of Serbian citizens and its work is appreciated how much you have managed to reduce unemployment, and you have increased it several times. You every day instead of the 200,000 that the president of Serbia promised when he came to power, you left 200 thousand people out of work, and you did not hire the new 200 thousand people. You said four highways, all right. Take a look at what the road to Macedonia looks like. Why did you stop the tour around Belgrade? What's going on here? This on Gazela is a project from four or five years ago. The entrance to Novi Sad is the same project four or five years ago, Beška it's a project four or five years ago, it's my projects. What project of yours has come to life today? A bridge on the Sava, which has reached 350m euros and has no idea what the figure will be. Is it normal, Mrs Dragutinovic, that you as an economist, as a great expert, do you ever talk to the Belgrade city's leadership? Is it normal for a bridge in Beška over the Danube whose length is 2,400m, which has 24 pillars in the Danube, which has the highest bridge in Serbia, 100m, which has a depth of 17mm, extremely difficult conditions, to cost 56m euros, and a bridge on the Sava that is a stream for the 2,400m Danube there costs 350m euros. That's normal for you. And this Chinese bridge of yours that's completely undefined, it's still unprojected, it's in the design phase, you've arranged it. How could you make a deal that wasn't drawn, how much it would cost, and you're looking at 170 million euros here. Where did you get that number, who threw out that information, and based on what, when the bridge project is still being done, and it's not finished? So, all these fairy tales, these stories that were given in this budget, these are good wishes, but this has nothing to do with it. A difficult year awaits us, extremely difficult and hard and the only way to save is to have a normal government come, to bring this to an end. Otherwise, with you, and these thousands of sides of the budget you've written, there's nothing, Mrs Dragutinovic. You can laugh all you want, but you know this is unrealistic. There's no people money, and you plan to take it from the naked. You don't know the folk. They don't strip naked. Therefore, there is no more to be taken than where it is most important to invest, little is invested, and in agriculture, subsidies in agriculture, to the expansion of the stock fund that you have completely destroyed, subsidies for milk, not to mention. So, a difficult year awaits us, and this budget of yours won't be for long, you want to adopt it, and then you go into government reconstruction. What does that mean? That means we'll have budget rebalance in two or three months. This is an unserious budget for a country like Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49205	Does the People's MP Ivan Andric want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will begin with one expression of a personal attitude more than a political one. The prime minister managed to shock me twice in this short time. For the first time, containing his speech, because it's simply as if man is not the prime minister of the country in which we all live, such a kind of optimism and some false flight, and it's simply an inappropriate time in which we are also in a country whose prime minister, if that's what it is. The other thing where he shocked me more personally, that's the speed he took out of this room when he realized that he needed to start speaking to the MPs now, but to him to his soul. I'll start with one recommendation he gave us, which I believe is deeply subconscious. He said he hoped we'd discuss the budget here without party acuity. It's a recommendation we told you when you started making this budget. He'd be much better off if it didn't show so much party acuity and fear of choices that must come, at the beginning of that year. It would make it easier for the job to probably be a minister's finance, which, after all this time, I am able to admire that tenacity and the desire to combine what is incompatible. What the minister's business life will be like when the IMF deal is over, I can't imagine it. We supported, you mentioned several times, so I'd start that arrangement with the IMF, the LDP was supporting exactly knowing how much ambitions and unrealistic desires in that government are the most massive from October 5th to today, by the number of parties, and how difficult it is to bring these party wishes into line, and without someone who would be some kind of police officer on the side and limit them in some way. Now we've come to an end, as far as we know, the IMF has been coming out, the arrangement ends in spring next year, and Serbia, which has been hugging in that party state for the past three years, is now left alone and unprotected, because I don't know who's going to defend it. I think that this budget today is certainly not as the prime minister tried to convince us, a developmental, thrifty, thorough reform, the government achieves results. It's all the opposite of that, and it's an indicator of everything that's the opposite of that, but I can't imagine what it's going to be like next if this government stays, because even the smallest corrective factor that's been the IMF at this point, it's not going to be there anymore. The prime minister surprised us all, just amazingly, he said that this government was successful and managed to avoid disaster, managed to secure the dignity of citizens' lives. So now we don't talk about some personal impressions of the government and the opposition, so we don't get unfairly accused of some party acuity, we'd best look at the parallel data. Serbia is today a country where the average salary is 320 euros, Croatia – 733 euros, Bulgaria – 300 euros, but with a unemployment rate that is more than 50% lower than ours, BiH – 400 euros, and we can look at some countries we hope to look up to them as the Czech Republic – 946 euros, Germany - 4281euro, gross, as the largest country. What kind of dignity is that, I'd like to know, compared to what? Compared to Montenegro, where the average salary is 477 euros and with us 320 euros. I see that with our prime minister, that dignity is quite one free category that is commonly used, as well as the entire budget. Whether the budget is developmental or not, it's a truly amazing finding of our prime minister. Getting ready for this debate, which took a short while because you didn't give us the opportunity to study this budget thoroughly, with a very clear goal, I read a lot of comments from this budget, but I really didn't read that it was a developmental one. I'm sorry the gentleman left, but I'd like to hear that interpretation, and I'm sure most MPs don't run away from that kind of fun. If development was to be based on some capital investments, which is the plan we heard in the public from the ruling coalition's representatives that next year will be a boom in infrastructure development, which would be true, to run other branches of production in Serbia or economy, then let's look at what kind of boom is expected. This year, it was allocated for capital investments of 31.8 billion dinars, as Mr Ilic said. Since these figures mean nothing to people, because it's hard to see what 31.8 billion dinars are, it's best to compare it to this year, in which the budget was 26.5 billion dinars for investment. So what kind of boom it's going to be, it's best to look at what it's like this year, and about that boom in capital investments. Of course, it'll sell to Telecom, that'll be the answer. That illusion will continue. But what I'm sure of, and if sold, with that money, there will be no boom and development in this country next year, unfortunately. Everyone talked about the budget and avoided talking about the biggest user who knows a few years in a row of our budget, which is the PIO Fund, a pension-inhabited fund. Even representatives of the party who is sovereignly ruling the fund, and is trying to protect, in our opinion, the interests of the pensioner or the beneficiary of the fund, in the wrong way, she has avoided talking about it. And that's clearly why. It's clear, Mr. Ilic, why they planted that law, not wanting to discuss it. That's very clear. So again, this fund is financed by over 20% of the budget, or 20% of the Republic of Serbia's budget goes to subsidies to that fund, and that makes up a total of 46% of that fund. Another 40 percent of the fund makes mandatory contributions made by employees who work, who do not have much. What I was personally interested in, is to look at the fund's financial plan of how much the fund itself contributes, as one result of its tendency to stand alone and separate from the state. Every year when we discuss it, we are told that subsidies are only this year and the reform of the fund is about to begin. This year, other revenues from the fund, since their revenues were less than 2% of the fund's needs. So if we mean that the success of the fund manager is incredibly successful, at this rate, in order to cover this 50% missing fund, it takes another 25 years. By then, there will be a reform of this fund, if any, by biological means. That's unacceptable. It's totally unacceptable. As a first and basic budget burden, I ask on behalf of the LDP, we continue the dialogue we had a year ago, then we are promised, not as foreigners, but as members of this country and the citizens of this country, that it is then a 25 % subsidy in PIO, if I am not mistaken, a budget that serves to start reforming the pension system in Serbia. Here, it's been a year. We were patient. We've been waiting. What did you do? What was done in reforming that pension system? I can quote, I have statements here – here, in January comes the reformed law. In January of last year. A year before this day we're sitting on. One small replica to the gentleman from PUPS – the ministry does not give you that money. That's exactly where we look at this misunderstanding of the time we live. That money wasn't given to you by the minister. You took that money from all the citizens of this country. Absolutely all of them. If there is no level of awareness that there is a need to reform something that spends 20%, 200 billion dinars, so seven times more than capital investment, 15 times more than subsidies in this country's agrarian, I don't know how many hundred times more than investment in young talent in this country -- what perspective do you offer? The prime minister can't run out of here fast enough to avoid answering that question. The answer to that question will bring life itself. And when life brings an answer to a question that you are trying to avoid, the answer is usually much worse and much more painful. Please, Minister, explain to us, regarding the promise of last year, which exactly the reforms made in the PIO Fund, the pension-inhabited fund, what is the plan, that this fund no longer lives, no longer deals or breathes, depending solely on the subsidies of the state, as employees are getting less and less? Statistics say we have two new jobs on three new pensioners in Serbia. It's Serbia's organ statistics, not ours. So it's just gonna get worse. What's the plan, and by exactly what year, so we can know, our pension fund will be able to live on its own? Serbia as a state is a guarantee of these pensions. We are not talking about what they are already preparing to plant for us – that we want to cut pensions. You've cut them yourself enough. Growth of 2% next year, the year we enter with 11% inflation. How many pensioners whose interests you're supposed to represent today are down? Projected inflation is 4.5%. Is that possible? See inflation, for example, from August to today, and calculate the trend of what will be next year. We dealt with free accounting – 15%. The state has begun, and it is normal in some final stages of government to capture any solution it sees. So, like the financial inspection that controls a part of this government always goes to companies that work, because it can't charge anything from those who don't work well. If you want to do well, you mean financial, tax, etc. And they're going to ask for at least something minimal to get in, so that those people can live on something. That's how the state turned. What's the economic reason to increase VAT on computers? Can you explain that to us? Is it expected that this investment boom is going to go down a little bit so that it can be handled where it can be? What's the reason for that? If I'm not mistaken, your government has promoted the Information Society Strategy. She was adopted here on some assembly committee. That strategy says there won't be a VAT or an 8%, not 18%. Those are the reasons for some who are real. We have the most technologically illiterate population in Europe, and it needs to be described technologically, so – VAT tax on computers is reduced until the moment it is completely abolished. Now we're going with the countermeasure. As prime minister and you -- the budget is developmental and happy, the budget is a matter of compromise between coalition partners in the pre-election year. We further have an increase in value added tax on overnight stays in hotels, motels, etc. So the total of these two measures will lead to an increase if the trend of sales continues as of 0.1% today. That's what it says in the budget and the analysis we got. Unfortunately, that trend will not continue. Since it is possible to live without a computer, if from 400 euros to 500, then a man will not buy it, since that 100 euros in this "worthy" life that we live in Serbia represents a third of the average salary. This means that people will not buy it and that the increase in revenue in the budget will not come. As for this sleepover in hotels and motels, one of the key economic tools of this government, which will make us better, I really wish you a lot of success. Unfortunately, I think that very miserable number of people who sleep in these hotels, motels, and I don't know where they are, will stop sleeping there, and if they go through the country, they'll only go faster. But there is one more serious question – what about the arrangements that are sold for next year? Now everyone who paid them will have to pay or not. He'll cancel, right. He'll cancel, I didn't count on it after I was carried with this boom and recovery that would bring us these two measures. The excise on cigarettes - I'm only talking about the topics that you've imposed, just a thousand and a hundred pages in two days, it wasn't possible to read, and I remembered those sayings - that the devil lies in detail, here it's not true. Here the devil lies wherever you turn, it doesn't take any more time than this. We've had enough of this. So, excises, explanations, just if the minister were to finish, so this is really amazing to me, I'd like to hear it very much. So, the reason for introducing an increase in excise duty on cigarettes that we have received is to comply with European Union regulations. Are there any other European Union regulations? Is there, for example, a regulation that a party can't post a mail manager? Is there a regulation that a party can't appoint a director of the railroad? It doesn't exist. This is a European standard. So, we're done, and now all we've got left is to pick up our cigarettes, raise our sleeping taxes, our computers, and everything's fine, and the economic boom, and the prime minister runs out of the assembly and tomorrow when everything wakes up, it's wonderful. The weather is beautiful, even the snow doesn't fall, Europe is veiled. How can that be an explanation for the increase in excise duty? So how can that be? What's not to explain to you about everything else? What does that not explain for the budget to arrive at the Assembly before 15 November? Is that a European standard? First of all, I'm sorry, here's the 15th. Is that a European standard? But it's not about European standards, it's about Sunday nights with five other laws. And excises, I'm sorry, who's against excises, is against Europe. Is that right? That's the only explanation you've given. So, since you're counting on people who can't stop smoking, if they can't stop buying computers, they don't have to go anywhere, but they can't stop, they're so upset that they can't do it. These are those, as I would say, very precisely established strategies for the economic development of this country. So that's unacceptable. Next, property tax. There are explanations even more interesting than those of these cigarettes and these. So, first of all, when it comes to Oliver Dulic's action. It's just a fascinating plan. So the plan was to legalise the facilities so people could be charged with property taxes, which is European fluids. It's not this salary from Germany, it's the European fluid, it's just what's being paid for. So, since it was then found that this law is bad, it's impossible to implement it, that these objects are abnormally many, then we're going to legalize now without any order. So whoever filed this just to be legalized so we can charge the property tax, and the property tax will be charged by the poorest citizens of this country. That's what I'm going to try to read you one count of it. Here's what he says -- if someone who inherited a house 50 years old, it's a real example, worth 15 million dinars, a real example, today pays 3,600 dinars, after this European intervention in this way will pay 26,000 dinars. So the man who inherited the house that's 50 years old and costs 130,000 euros, that's not a rich man, we'll agree. But if a man has a house worth a hundred million dinars and he's new, he's paying 730,000 dinars today, and when we Europeanise the country, he'll pay 390,000 dinars, because there's this imbalance, a lot of these little houses have to pay so these rich people don't pay, then we can legalize all the dwarves, because they can't pay property tax unless the property is legalized, that's at least clear. So, what I'm saying is one doubt, I have no question, I just don't see what kind of answer we could get, any of the MPs who thinks I'm gonna say in a normal and healthy way, and to say that this budget is great, even though it's a holiday for constitutionals, I don't know what it's said, lovers of the Vojvodina Constitution, it's not a holiday for us, because it really applies to us. Unfortunately, I don't live in Vojvodina or luck, but it does apply to me, so I can't look at it as a holiday, but it's amazing how the tax reform that you've proposed ended up with a VAT increase on the computer and sleeping on the Old Mountain, if there's a place to sleep, so that investment boom in infrastructure ended up with the same investment boom as it was this year, we couldn't go anywhere how many of those roads were built. (President: 20 minutes. Here I go. As the election approaches, everything turns into a farce that is really hard for us to answer. So the country we live in is certainly different from the country where you live and it's hard for us to find any common part of us to agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49207	National MP Momo Colaković, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49208	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, I do not have any particular need to replicate Mr Andric's presentation for explanation and possible interpretation, of the misreading of my presentation. It's not about avoiding anything. We will talk a lot over the next few days about the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and you will hear our views in the second part of the presentation of the honourable MP Peric. I was just talking about the budget and the laws that follow the budget. Secondly, I understand that last year we understood that this party is not a heritage fund, nor is it right, nor does it, to be asked in the Fund. The fund is established by three entities, it's employers, government, unions and pensioners, and in that respect I don't think we should go back to those objections you're making right now. Third, what's done? It's done a lot. I'll remind you, the Central Register Act has been passed, which should introduce order regarding payment of contributions. The debts are now over 200 billion, and they have been effective since 1 January 2011. I hope he'll be strictly respected. Then, the Fund's service is arranged and arranged, where more than 3,500 workers were employed. In this respect, the results are already visible. The law was made in 2009 and agreed in general. Why wasn’t he on the congregation agenda, don’t just ask us. There are objective reasons. First of all, the unions reacted about it. (President: Two minutes. 4th, do not stumble on us to take someone’s money. It's still an economic category, and I'm asking you to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49209	National MP Ivan Andric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49210	It wasn't the intention of any moment to offend you. You made one slip of speech and you said, "The Ministry of Finance has come to us so much." He's not from the Ministry, he's some kind of funeral boy. Where did it come from? It's from each of us's pockets. The fact that you're building up so much from the Pension Fund only leads me to the conclusion that this situation is much worse than it is. If someone wants to avoid responsibility a year before the election, it's certainly not because that fund has phenomenal results but because it wants to get away and has nothing to do with it. You're right that a few steps have been taken, but that pace is miserable. At that rate, we'll never get anywhere. What we are interested in is a realistic result, and the real result is that this fund, who knows what year in a row, is needed to survive, to meet minimum and pay off guaranteed pensions, needs a 50% grant from the budget. That if there's anything else to say about how ineffective and out-of-date that system is and whatever else you want, and how long it takes him not to make the law, so I'm sorry, but he hasn't gotten into the process yet because it's not part of the reform. We've adopted something, so what's wrong with it? The result's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49211	National MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49212	Yeah, there's a need. In this regard it is said that this is the fourth part of the reform, in three we did not participate, and you did, your members of the parliamentary group. The first phase of 2002, the second one in 2003 and the third one in 2005, is slow, we can agree and indeed it is slow, not only that, but a lot of things in Serbia. And we deny it, but if the shifts were made, it's true and certain mistakes that were made in phase two and stage three are corrected, and that's true, it can be seen. In this respect, you cannot deny what I said and what is achieved. Please, we're not avoiding any responsibility regarding the fund. It is as much responsibility as the Alliance of Pensioners and the Alliance of Independent Unions and Employers. In this regard, I am convinced that the efforts made over the last few years are very important. This can be seen and can be confirmed by the insurance companies themselves and the users of pension-inhabited insurance services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49213	National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49214	It's another misunderstanding. No one from our party took part in it. Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic? What year was the Deputy Prime Minister? Yeah, but it's not true, but it doesn't matter, we can't talk about it right now. That's not true. Why are you laughing? It's just, some things are true, some things aren't. You know what exactly is? That the subsidy to your trust is your semi-private, because in it sits, on the board of directors, MPs from your party. So I'm saying, I'm not saying like this, I didn't tell Mr. Omerovic, as your fund, but I said exactly who I should have told. These subsidies are more than 10 times the subsidies in agriculture. Do you know what that means? That means there's no theoretical chance there'll be milk in this country next year. Are you aware of that? Of these reforms in the Pension Fund, which could not be extended yet, and to make it milk, we have come to the point that there is no way of being it. I can tell you one more thing, there are in the EU quotas for milk, quotas for basic products and the country when it gets candidate status, it enters negotiations on those quotas, and quotas that are obtained are real, initial negotiations on the three-year average of production. So, as a candidate in 2012, we will have an average of 2012, in which there will be no average, in 2011 in which it will be in this budget, which is until April, and in 2010 it has been gone for four months. That'll be our quota. Railway subsidies, 15 times, 20 times more subsidies to the Pension Fund than railway subsidies. Do you think the railways aren't reforming? Do you think maybe we should stop, lock them up anyway? I don't know who's traveling those railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49215	Two minutes. National MP Momo Colaković, right on line. Please conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49216	You're not going to accuse us of having no milk, are you? I personally think that we understand each other well and that we should put an end to what we're talking about, and that you don't put us in the social and that you see the pension system and pensions as a social category. This must primarily be an economic category, and in this respect there is no need to interpret and explain anymore. Please keep that in mind. Don't accuse us of something that's not good and that's not "the railroad" good that they're pensioners. It was very good in our time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49217	National MP Ivan Andric and we end this debate with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49218	I can't imagine what your time is more than sitting in the government, the board of directors, you're MPs. I don't know what your time is anymore. Maybe some other category, but I wouldn't talk about it. Yeah, just because it's a social category, because something that takes 50% to help live is a social category. We fight for that to be an economic criterion. There's a lot of ways to do that, but it needs to start. If this is step four, how many are there – 50, 60, 70? How old is that? Then give up. Say - this country has no chance, it has to give 22% to the elderly to live. It is a social category, which is the definition of social life, not the dignity of citizens, according to the prime minister. It's a definition and you don't stand a chance because you want to move, the elders have to die. We don't tell you that. We say it's not true, but the people who usurp that fund don't want to reform it from their own benefits and positions, they're also guilty that the state doesn't have 50 billion for subsidies to agriculture, and then there'd be milk, and that would be only 30 billion less for the pension fund. At this point, it's 230. Reduce by 30 and there'll be milk. What's not clear about that? Either you stop the army, you stop the police, you stop the schools, you fire the teachers, you do something, or we don't need milk. I tell you, you show reality much more beautiful than it is and no one trusts you anymore. We have no reason to convince you of that. Go outside and take a walk.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49219	Two minutes. Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49220	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support, in principle, a draft law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for decisions on financial reports, as well as a set of tax and financial laws and amendments and additions to the Pension-Inhabitation Act. I will take the opportunity to make several views and general assessments of our parliamentary club, when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and following tax laws. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is a basic economic policy document for 2011 and is a basic guideline for preserving macroeconomic stability, increasing employment, sustainable economic development and balanced regional development. These are certainly guidelines that deserve the support of our MPs' club. The preparation and adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia should be monitored in a given environment and with a broader political aspect and, above all, that this is the first budget of the Republic of Serbia that we adopt after the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Budgetary System, which provides for the establishment of fiscal rules, i.e. general and special, is the moment when the credit arrangement with the IMF is active, the fiscal capacity of our country, of course, the needs of budgetary users who are always maximumist and with the view that everyone deserves priority, and also the legal obligations that limit the discretionary expenditures in the good part, i.e. the discretionary ability of the Government to act with them. Moving within these frameworks, the government and the finance ministry had no easy task of creating the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, our parliamentary group appreciates that it has successfully ended it and is assessing it as such that it represents one real reflection of the current economic situation of the Republic of Serbia in conditions where the devastating elements of the global economic crisis are still present and when new challenges still need to be answered. It is also an expression of the government's commitment to lead more responsible public finances in the medium term and of course more responsible behaviour when it comes to the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We consider it good that the government has brought all fiscal constraints into line. Also the level of public debt and deficits with the IMF, as the arrangement offers certain macroeconomic stability. It is also a guarantee of the credibility of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of fiscal rules, general and special, defined the government of the Republic of Serbia as thinking and acting on the medium term. Fiscal rules and only the introduction of fiscal rules unfortunately do not guarantee better financing. However, the experience of many developed countries is in favour of the fact and should be expected to be in the Republic of Serbia as well. The importance of these fiscal rules is given by some countries by the fact that, for example, Germany has defined its fiscal rules with the constitution. The first step in this regard is also taken in conditions where the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is dangerously approaching, so at a level of 39%, the one designed by fiscal rules. We absolutely support the government's firm commitment to establish the target deficit in 2011 and achieve a level of 4.1% of GDP, and, of course, to the medium term, therefore, comply with the general fiscal rule at 1%. In the draft budget, we see a planned deficit of 120.5 billion dinars, which basically means that it is the same in nominal terms as in the previous year and meets this criterion. Of course, this process, which actually represents a change in the structure of public consumption, i.e. the reduction of current expenditure, is not easy and that this adjustment must be carried out consistently in the next period. As a result, we really consider the amendments and additions of the Budgetary System Act to be justified, where this time it was seen that it was necessary to lay down specific fiscal rules on the achievement of general fiscal rules which are nevertheless fundamental and which should be pursued, so that the rules relating to the harmonisation of wages and pensions also think that they are good and that we support them. The budget we are talking about is such that both revenues and expenditures have increased by 65 billion dinars compared to the previous year and are moving in the total income range of 724.4 billion and expenditures of 844.9 billion, which gives the deficit of 120.5 billion dinars. I would like to comment and put forward views on some planned expenditure in this budget on the basis of which one can see the definition or framework within which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was moving when it proposed such a budget. Total expenditures are somewhere at an 845 billion dinar level and are an expression of the defined policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I spoke of in the previous period, and this refers to the rate of defreezing of salaries and pensions in the public sector after two years and for these purposes is defined by the funds of 15.6% of total expenditure and the planned dynamics according to some plan of harmonisation of wages in December, which will be achieved nominally in January at 2%, and later these increases will be followed by the consumer price index and one half of real GDP growth in the previous year. There's been a lot of debate about it in the previous term. It is necessary to provide the funds necessary for the PIO Fund in order to make pension payments uninterrupted. Unfortunately, this is due not only to all of what we have heard but also to insufficient and weak income-based contributions, and for these purposes, the allocations of 274.2 billion dinars are foreseen. We believe that any economic policy, including this government's economic policy, must be socially sustainable for both a short and a long time. Every other economic policy is theoretical, inconclusive and in this respect we absolutely want to highlight and support the allocation of pure 90 billion for the socially most vulnerable groups of the population, therefore, for child protection, martial and disability protection, student and student standards, refugees and displaced persons. Certainly, the consequence of such a decision is the freezing of subsidies in the current state of capital expenditure, and I think that this is how the government sends one expression of the desire for this budget to be socially sustainable. What has already been said here, we can say that the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the appeals of local self-government and that this of the rebalancing that we adopted a month or a few months ago really represents one continuity and the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reach the required level of transfer to local self-government, in order to avoid any difficulties in the functioning of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. The budget rebalances additional funds of a billion dinars were defined, and the budget envisions about 32 billion dinars, which is an increase of around 25% compared to 2010. Of course, it is not yet the level that would be in full capacity, but I am convinced that with this development and this way of looking at the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will reach the necessary transfer funds for local self-government in the coming year. Of course, there's been a good increase in detachment and education, somewhere over 5%. And also for science. We believe that these areas are crucial and are priorities in this country. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Science asked for slightly greater funding at the Science Committee session, however, respecting these frameworks in which we are moving and the necessary responsibility in that area, I think this is the maximum that the government has managed to achieve and that it will mean significant support for science in the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say, so far, no one has mentioned it, and at the meeting of the Finance Committee, I don't know if there have been words on any other committees, this budget has been specific and since it was planned for the first time in terms of realising the financial economy of the Republic of Serbia, where the fully respected procedure provided for by the Law on the National Assembly. I would like to thank the resolution minister and, of course, the leadership of parliament, which was well-founded by the draft budget, to see that the plan envisaged and the Administrative Committee were fully accepted and incorporated into this budget, at 1.9 billion levels, which is more than the framework offered by the Finance Ministry for some 200 million dinars. A good explanation suggests that our parliament foresees several activities that have not been so far, which is the possibility of introducing an electronic parliament, the need for halls to vote on boards of complete equipment, and these are not only the wishes of parliament, these are also the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure which, to that end, provide for the way our Parliament works. This budget, with over three and a half times as much resources as the previous year for the work of the State Auditing Institution, shows again clearly the government's definition that it wants the DRI to operate in full capacity, to contribute to better public finances in the Republic of Serbia and to the legal spending of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and that it really has no intention or intention to hide anything. As far as RS budget revenues are concerned, some parameters say that the 2011 GDP growth projection is possible at 3%, a higher rate of export growth than imports of 14.2% and 6.2% and targeted inflation, which here was a matter of controversy, at 4.5%, following tax laws and changes allowed slightly higher revenues to be planned compared to the previous year, almost 10%, of 724.4 billion. It is also good to commend the removal of taxes on the use and use of mobile phones. It's a good thing this time we got a review of the effects of applying tax incentives, such as profit tax, which is an estimate of the tax administration, that, based on the employment of people with disabilities, the opening of new legal entities, the employment of a certain number of workers indefinitely, was achieved in 20.8 billion dinars. These are the funds that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the RS, have given up in favour of these incentives. We are aware that these funds, but also these about six billion, if I'm not mistaken, of the tax on use and the use of mobile phones is necessary somewhere on the other side to make up for and pick up. The amendments to this law, unfortunately, are purely fiscal, have a purely fiscal objective. I have repeatedly used the debate in both the plural and the committees to support the finance minister in her desire to implement a fundamental reform of the tax system in RS. This time, first of all, I call for clear support from the tax administration. The data you have made more clearly in favour of the fact that tax evasion in the RS is significantly higher than developed countries, and that in this sense these changes should be seen primarily as fiscal, but the right to a fundamental tax reform and other tax forms, particularly the income tax of citizens, should be followed to reduce tax evasion in the RS. With that in mind, I wouldn't put out any more detailed proposals for these laws, but I'd like to say that excises are one of the oldest taxes of the so-called. excise duties and the first form of taxation of consumption and that they are very generous, popular and that they have a small tax evasive and tax certain products, those that cannot be substituted. Due to such properties, about three billion dinar revenues are foreseen by these amendments to the Excise Proposal. One part is projected to replace about a million and a half dinars in amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. My opinion and position is that this fiscal effect and the fiscal objective of amending tax laws could have been much better and much more handled through excises and that these effects we discussed would have been almost eliminated. There has often been a discussion in both the plural and the committees when it comes to the Law on property tax, i.e. the collection of property taxes at the level of local self-government, I remember when this idea came to life and when we talked at the Permanent Conference of Cities and the municipalities that the basic idea was that it was primarily the 100% income of municipalities, that municipalities which are interested in picking up well, that municipalities that know their territory well and that the effect of the collection of that tax will be significantly improved. Now we hear a lot of criticism that many objects are not taxed, that some pay and some don't pay. There's no other solution. I call on the tax administration in the municipalities to go out in the field, to go out to their seats and hire additional people, to write down property that has not been reported, to complete tax returns, and thus significantly repair and pay this tax itself and to fill well the budget of their local self-government. Finally, I would like to say that I hope and expect, in addition to the proposal for reforming the tax system and some recommendations on tax collection, that it is a good thing that this budget proposal at the level of five ministries is kept as programmable, but I certainly hope and expect that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will follow the trend in developed countries from next year and pursue the programme budget, which, in addition to this cost and functional work, is accompanied by concrete programmes and projects to be implemented, and can measure what has been achieved after spending. This means with certain means of what was built, what purpose was achieved, what goal, or how many miles of road was built. Since these discussions and the proposal are the subject of three decisions of the financial plans, they are in line with budget projections and appropriate fiscal rules and are certainly acceptable to us. Finally, if I were to conclude, I would like to say that this budget is the first step and the basis for the future process of strengthening fiscal responsibility, i.e. one medium-term financing plan in RS. It is good that it is brought into line with important parameters with the IMF, and since additional funding has been allocated for social protection, we believe that at this point it is necessary and socially sustainable and therefore the SPS-JS Parliament Club in principle supports this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49221	The word has an MP, Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49222	The Honorable Presidency, Ms. Minister, our People's proverb – better halfway back than going ugly to the end, is the ideal introduction for this budget debate. The budget is the most important act adopted by the Assembly and it shows where the state is going next year and shows the goals that every country wants to achieve and shows how citizens should live next year. Serbia's goal, according to Prime Minister Cvetkovic's statement we heard today, but from the media, Europe, although unfortunately this budget does not show it. The way we're going to get to this goal, as the prime minister said, is a new development model and savings. I must stress that this new development model has never been adopted anywhere as an official strategy for Serbia's development. Do you need better evidence of the chaos that's being made with this budget? Speaking of the goal set by Europe, I want to inform you that we reached this goal somewhere in the sixth century of the new era when the Slovenians began to move into these areas. Since then, Serbia has been in Europe. So, since we achieved this goal 14th century ago, I think it's time to start living today, to have milk in stores, to have new jobs, bigger salaries, better heating, security and security on the streets, shorter ranks in municipalities, shorter ranks with doctors, etc. If you don't do it, you haven't done it in two and a half years, it's certain that the words are at a great distance from what was done. We had some 90s that promised the Swedish standard, I remember well, and the salaries were about 10 euros. I'm afraid we're not going according to that model. Therefore, Madam Minister, and not only you but the entire government, as long as unemployment grows, as long as wages are reduced, as long as prices are growing in stores, this new model of development that you recommend is just one big fairy tale. I'm sorry that in this budget, the seventh time we meet you, we can never reach a goal, we keep talking about a future, we always have promises, unfortunately every time we have rebalancing, every time there is a budget indiscipline, and I want to conclude that we don't need this new development model that Prime Minister Cvetkovic said, we need a new government. And for that, there are ten reasons, and now in my presentation, I'm going to try to give you ten reasons why we need a new government. The first reason lies in the fact that in 28 months of this government you have made six budgets, and this is the seventh and budget each needs to ensure that pensioners have pensions, that people in public administration have salaries, that the economy works. Look, let's not forget this last one, that we have stability and ambience and conditions for the economy to work. It seems to me that the last part about the economy, in each of your seven budgets, is always forgotten. You've always been because of the coalition you've made, where you have to fulfill every coalition partner's wishes, you've always been focused on these first two goals, and the third one that talks about the economy you've forgotten every time. Of course, we can't even talk, Madam Minister, about some stability if we change budgets on average every five months. Perhaps, just to add, the prime minister said -- I would like you to conduct an unscathed debate, to contribute to stability, but I must remind you that we have won this budget, which contains 1.114 pages, on Monday, and today is Thursday. It's really a minimum time to read, not to analyze deeply, but with teamwork, we've been able to analyze this budget. But let me just add one more thing. You did this when it came out on Saturday, and on Monday, this hard version. It was at the time of St. Nicholas's greatest Serbian glory, and it has already become a standard. We once adopted a rebalancing on Easter. Last time we worked in front of New Year's Eve, was that to make it less talk about the budget, to hide something? It's another interesting fact, Madam Minister, I don't know if you know, the version that came out on the site on Saturday contains 550 pages, and the hard copy here contains 1,114 pages. Two very different documents, 550 pages and 1.114. And there isn't, I checked in the Assembly to see if it was up to the congregation services, no, the congregation services assured me that everything was fine in the Assembly, but the format as you gave it to the government, as the government officials or the ministry did, absolutely doesn't respond. Of course, I don't want to see a ministry officer get hurt because of this, but I'd rather the prime minister take responsibility or the minister, but don't ask that we blame just some officers, it's the last thing I want to do, not be like another city. Another reason why we need a new government is the fact that every new budget makes us more and more pressured than the IMF. I'm only afraid the next budget won't even be in English. I think there are a lot of provisions imposed on us, and by what I've calculated, under the IMF's patronage and the banks that give us the loans, there's about 70% of the budget, if I've re-analysed it correctly. So, only 30% of the budget is made on its own by this government, and 70% brings the government along with the IMF. It's a huge burden, if I calculated this percentage correctly, and I think I did. That's why, before I call it a concerted one, as you called it with the IMF, if it's 70% of the agreed budget with the IMF, I'd rather call it dictated, because a lot of it's dictated. The third reason for the government's shift is, Madam Minister, the growth of deficits. The deficit has increased as many as nine times in this time. When you came to power, in the first budget we had 14 billion, now we have 120 billion. The deficit has increased nine times. It would be no problem, I keep saying, that this deficit has been used for Serbia's economic renaissance – for infrastructure, for investing in the Development Fund to help the economy, etc. I say again, this deficit has been reused for consumption. I have calculated, Madam Minister, the total deficit during your government's term of office, of course he is responsible primarily for the prime minister, and after all the other ministers, if the deficit is assumed not to increase next year, the total deficit during your government's mandate is equal to 390 billion dinars, or to translate, about four billion euros. Four billion euros, the deficit during the government's mandate, is equal to the total budget for building Corridor 10. Or, four billion euros is like if we sold Telecom, Telenor and Vip Mobile all together, that would be four billion euros. For four billion euros, we could build three thermal power plants in Serbia. The problem is that behind these four billion euros behind your government will not remain, Madam Minister, any capital project. There's a problem. Nor did the economy rise by one percent. Indeed, I repeat, there would be no deficit problem, many European countries, many countries in the world have deficits, but they use it exclusively for economic development. The deficit is the basis for economic development. That's right in the economy, you take credit to buy new technology and speed it up, but nobody only takes credits, if we talk about development, so it gives them up for consumption. The fourth reason why we need a new government is the fact that we keep growing public debt. During the government's mandate, Madam Minister, the total public debt rose from 9.5 to 11.62 billion euros. Or, to translate, from 25.6% of GDP to 38% of GDP. We're approaching a critical point by world standards. Trustees, to whom we will have to return 34 billion dinars this year and even 45 billion dinars on behalf of interest payments, will receive more funds than is allocated for investments and subsidies together. So we give twice as much for the principal and interest as the economy. The interest, to translate, is to eat our budget. I'm afraid next year will be even harder. The alternative to financing the deficits you've devised is in the sale of Telecom. Many have spoken here, and we have spoken, so due to limited time, I wouldn't hold back on it, but selling Telecom in these conditions would be completely wrong. The fifth reason for this government's replacement is the inability to fulfill any promised promise. When you took office, you promised higher wages, higher pensions, new jobs, foreign investments. Now they're looking for excuses. The "kalymer" syndrome has become a real feature of this government and most often I hear, Madam Minister, your many colleagues, many who only promise something, will be 2020, will be 2015, so you are not in opposition. The opposition promises, and the government is working today, you're all your fellow ministers promised you could do for these two and a half years and you can do both today and tomorrow. It doesn't have to be promised, it can be done, but unfortunately, unfulfilled promises have become a synonym for this government. Let me add, during the term of office of this government, the average salary in Serbia has become smaller for the first time since World War II than in Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia and Albania. The sixth reason for not trusting this government is the fact that there is no development behind this budget, there is no economic development. We spoke on our own on budget rebalancing, and you said the value of construction works dropped by 19.2%, tourist services by 10.2%, retail traffic by 2.5%, foreign direct investment by 50%, and at the heart of all, there is a key problem today in Serbia -- unemployment that has increased by 3.1%. Serbia's economy is in deep recession and there is no telling when it will come out. In the budget, in my opinion, there were many basics in all previous budgets, Madam Minister, for reviving the economy, many more basics. Unfortunately, when you took office, to inform you, 65 billion dinars were scheduled for these purposes, and now, after this so-called. The increase, that sum is 31 billion dinars. I'm talking about investments, Madam Minister. The division was 65, and today it's 31 billion. When you took office, this is very important, the subsidies for agriculture, our largest export branch, were 24 billion when you entered, but the euro was below 80 dinars. Today the subsidies are less, not 24, but 20 billion, but the euro is 106 or 107, it may soon be 110. So, for agriculture, I think this is very important for citizens to know, we allocate less than two hundred million euros, so we help the best export branch with two hundred million euros, and Croatia, which has three times less processed surfaces, allocates four hundred million euros, means three times less processed areas, and separates twice as much for agriculture. Milk subsidies are increased, but even after the increase they are three times less than in Croatia, so our farmers get less subsidies than in Croatia and worse still, our farmers get twice less subsidies than in BiH. This is the status of this government, this budget has agriculture. I almost forgot to say that in this model discussed by the prime minister is all a 10-year projection, but I will repeat, Serbia's economies need long-term and medium-term loans today. Next year, if there aren't these loans, it's gonna be harder. This must be where you think. Businesses have a huge liquidity problem in all sectors of the economy, and one of the major debtors is the state itself. The biggest debtor probably to the businessmen today is the state itself. There's one more thing I'd like to add. With this rate of losing 30,000 citizens each year, Serbia will be a country of 400,000 people by 2020, according to the model said by Prime Minister Cvetkovic. We'll have 400,000 less residents. But, you see, according to this model I've heard about and read a little bit about, because it wasn't all available, I think the solution is that it's going to reduce unemployment. We need a government that will see natality as a developmental opportunity for new development sites, not mortality as an opportunity to reduce unemployment rates. The seventh reason, Madam Minister, for the replacement of this government is to continue the pressure on citizens' standards. Public consumption is not being reduced, and sources are constantly drying up. The deficit is planned at the level this year for next year, it is, but it is constantly increasing and I have no doubt that somewhere in April we will have a rebalance, at the latest in April. To apply this declared model, you came up with the idea of taxing additional VAT increases in the southern fruit, meaning oranges and Mandarins, and computers, of course, and catering services. In the economic programme of Serbia's development, which we presented a year ago, tourism is indeed one of the very important elements for the future development of Serbia's economy, very stable, allowing particularly good economic development in small businesses, small households and today this VAT on hotel services is probably the largest in Europe. As for the property tax and the release, I think a lot of things have been done wrong, but we'll have until the end of this session to talk about it. Let me just conclude in the end that we are not voting for this budget. This budget does not offer reform of any economic policy, the deficit is reduced as planned, but is not spent on investment, but on consumption, and repaying debt and interest becomes our key problem. The main problem with this budget is to continue, as the last one, to destroy the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49223	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49224	Thank you. I would call this budget proposal a return to the past or how to quickly fill the state register. The reason for this name or an introduction like this, to make it easier for the minister to follow, I found on the side of 763 of this budget, and that's what I'm going to base my discussion on. For lack of time, in this part of the debate, I will only talk about the Budgetary System Act as a framework for this budget, and I will talk about the budget itself, but in principle. First of all, I have to say, this budget looks a lot like the 2007 budget, except that one had 317 pages, and this one has over a thousand. The 2007 budget was worth the same thing, about eight billion euros was monetaryally difficult. But there's one big difference. In that year, there were 1.5 billion euros in revenues from the sale of Mobi 063 "Telenor", 320m euros in mobile phone sales to Telekom Austria, 122m in revenues from the "Panon Bank" by selling to the Italian bank "Sanpallo" and 385m in revenues from the sale of the "Vojvodjanska Banka" to the Greek "NBG" bank. Somewhere near 3.2 billion euros was the basis for spending eight billion euros. As it was then registered, whether as a negative outflow of investment in the purchase of the "Telecom" of Republika Srpska, it could not be determined from either the memos or the financial reports we received, but in any case we had a completely different platform, a completely different income side, so that we could discuss how this income money was shared. The question for all citizens, i.e. the question of all citizens, is – and where are we today if in 2007, we had 3.2 billion for which you are not directly responsible, but let the government and government in continuity be. Today we are talking about a budget before which we have not considered the review report, not for 2008, meaning, the availability and effects of the investment of that money, we have not even discussed the 2009 budget audit, but the professional relationship with the audit itself, the Assembly and you are telling me to repeat only what is known to the public – that no data on the state of financial property has been presented, and for that already is part of the responsibility. So the claim and advances were not given in the 2009 budget. No data have been provided for the majority of budgetary users by census status, nor has the list and accounting status of non-financial assets been harmonised. We have neither what is most important – a consistent nor reliable state of long-term credit, ownership shares of the Republic in the capital of legal entities, rival loans, loans from the budget reserve of earlier years, loans from privatisation funds and other short-term claims. What, my dear gentlemen, is that we are talking today, if an auditor with a professional, trained, dedicated and paid person has failed to determine for 2009 a reliable state of credit for equity shares, loans and other short-term claims and comes out publicly with information that this is not reliable, and we need to talk about the 2011 budget. Why do I insist on this? Mrs Dragutinovic, when we adopted the Bill on the Budget System, I argued that the minister could not be responsible for the implementation of the budget. I filed the amendment - you refused. Now you're going out with your own proposal as a government, that you're not responsible for budgeting. That's right. The minister who is not in fact or formally responsible for spending money cannot be responsible for him. But it is the government. It is the prime minister who came out here and said that this budget pushes for development and savings and that strong and stable Serbia, which means that there will be no choice before the deadline, should be as such that it has the necessary conditions to realise the objectives and continue its successes without risk, improvisation etc. It won't be too harsh if I say it was in the domain of some humorous program. Perhaps such an introduction to your pledoies and might pass. This is how he doesn't respond to reality. In the meantime, if the accountants went to training, I don't know, but there's no more talking here about misunderstandings between those who controlled, it's about instead of an auditor putting order into finance, you've put a few auditors in line, so you've corrected everything that could have been corrected. However, there have been corrections both around the budget deficit and about the most important states and primarily what I want to talk about. You should not have come to this congregation to seek the right to mutilate your illegal spending of 5%. So, a budget of over eight billion or so, I'm just taking into account 803 billion dinars, you're asking for 5% past the budget reserve and beyond all discretionary rights, without the approval here of concrete intentions, you as Minister at the level of the Republic and the Ministers of Local Self-Government can spend or re-route one appraisal to the other. Now you're going to tell me – it was already in the budget, you've only changed the formulation – expenditure and expenditure. I'll never get used to lying, being insolent and swearing. And you'll never convince me that once an exception is introduced should be a rule. In the budget system, you asked a member of the 4th basic law in 61st, for authority not to be credible in 5%. What does that mean? That he can spend whatever he wants and make it legal in advance for such a member of the Fourth Amendment to be voted here. Here's an explanation, since you seem surprised. As a result of the application of subsidies, expenditure on employees and specialised services has been incurred. The cost of banking services has been incurred from the appraisal of social protection benefits. With the appraisal, expenditure on loans to students was spent on banking services. So, you want to disprove the control of the auditor so that what's now being found illegal is actually illegal, in terms of when, if I remember the opening part well, what's the audit report, only items of spending over three million individually are considered. To translate citizens into the clearest language – should you get permission here to give for pregnant women, old women who are powerless and sick, and to give for official travel and follow-up borrowing costs? Yes, this is exactly what I'm taking as an example because you once dared to caricate objections, founded, to budget waste and to say – and what, should we not give to pregnant women, social cases, etc. No one's suggesting we shouldn't give for the social. But you can't budget to create such a climate where subsidies are scattered four times and you don't create conditions for higher employment at any time, so you can reduce the number of people who need to work for those who don't. Why do I insist on this? I'm going to give a very illustrative example of our reality today. The 763th section of the Department of Trade and Services has a section of interest payments to domestic lenders, where 482 million are scheduled for interest payments, and I will explain which, on the basis of the principal payments to other domestic lenders, three billion and 100 domestic debts should be paid back. This kind of domestic debt could bear the name – will, if debts are left willfully, I think you leave the property, but God damn it, here are the debts. An explanation of why the budget, from the pockets of all Serbian citizens, should provide 3.5 billion for the payment of a domestic debt is as follows: In 1997, the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, the government's conclusions, in which I was not a party, nor the party in which I was present, but a part of the DOS that then formed most similar to this today, with the power ratio being somewhat different, carried out the broadcasting of short-term foreign bonds for purchased wheat in 1997, for the launch of production, agricultural machinery and for the purpose of financing imports of repromation to textiles. Translations, your subsidies, which today are four times bigger and will be particularly spoken by my colleague Zoran Mašić, are only being divided differently today. They were then called subsidies for the launch of agricultural production, the purchase of storks, and today they have a different name. What happened? Since the bond's maturity had no foreign funds, it has received them from the sale of the PTT Public Enterprise to Serbia, what today is Telecom, and it has been converted through the Development Fund into a long-term foreign exchange loan. The analogy is also too obvious. The Development Fund has turned this obligation of the Directorate into foreign exchange loans. By contract, everyone's been wearing a tag and time for 1997. Under the depreciation plan, the foreign exchange debt is 136m euros. The funds were given, this is the most interesting, numerous enterprises that went into bankruptcy in the meantime, debt discharge was made, and debt layoffs are not done by citizens, but by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the same has been defused in privatisation, so the Directorate could not collect its claims. The Directorate today has no financial opportunity to settle these interest rates, so it is forced to seek additional funding from budget funds. God, she's got the right to settle these debts. Does the Directorate have milk to react from the reserve? There isn't. Has my colleague Mr. Masic repeatedly intervened on agriculture committees, urging all competent authorities to resolve the debt problem of those who owe the Directorate? This debt, of course, was close to the total agrarian budget and amounted to 18 or 19 billion dinars, if good memory serves me, without absolutely nothing being done about it. What's interesting? It's analogy again. The loans due to which the Directorate came into these debts were granted as top-secret. Let those who wish to forget remember. Is there any difference between how subsidies are given today? Very small. The regulations that change every two weeks for this, which, that and to whom it is necessary, are not much more transparent. But that's why the government's insolence remains evident, so with this budget, article 17, you say it's not new again, you reiterated the provision, that the government can decide on the write-off, that is, the conversion of certain claims made by the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans granted from the budget to the debtor of the legal entity, and on the basis of the criteria established by the Ministry of Finance. You added to our amendment last year - and after obtaining the consent of the National Assembly. That's why I said this budget is back in the past. Mrs. Komic, does the Assembly have any request to grant consent to a loan of this kind or to convert the write-off of a due claim or conversion into debt of the debtor? I'm not familiar with it as an MP. You are under the Rules of Procedure to inform me of everything. Yes, that is why you have made it easy to accept, with the consent of the National Assembly, which you do not ask for for anything. If my tone sounds a little harsh to you, the reason for that is the resentment that you think citizens don't remember and that those who would like to forget can be comfortable gardening in these new eight billion skin removals from citizens, through the accompanying tax laws that are exactly the way Andric used to say exactly as Velimir Ilic said - that you can't take down the naked one. Maybe some genius invention will help. What was a genius invention? We had the opportunity to hear on the show "Extract", where Mr. Dinkic, a subsidy maker, a copyist of experiences around loans, write-offs, conversions and bankruptcys, as suppressing the traces of those who take and don't return, said on the TV show that he realized that there was no real promise of free action, but that he was willing to help Boris Tadic win the election, and we all remember that the difference for his victory in the elections was about 100,000 votes. The mutual appreciation of the coalition government's participants through the Serbian citizens' budget, which you have, and we charge it, I'm sorry, but it's simply not humane. It means that someone can make these decisions about the distribution of money and these kind of decisions on conversions and write-offs because they owe each other because of the possibility of having this budget. Where is civilization, public, transparency, international experience, the IMF, our professionalism and everything else? Article 17. The budget law, which is just talking about how these conversions and claims are done, I am prepping you for the amendment that we have submitted, I have defined it this way – the extraordinary government can write off, that is, the individual claim reached, created on the basis of a loan from the budget, into the capital of the debtors on the basis of the criteria you determine, you have the right, but after you make decisions in the Assembly. Only these two words "after you make decisions in the Assembly", means that you, Mrs Dragutinovic, will have to come to the Assembly if you adopt this amendment, which I expect, and with the ruling majority make such a decision. But you're going to have to go through a procedure of filing documentation that explains the justification that what you once gave someone, first of all as a loan, according to some discretionary rights, is now written down or translated into capital, so that you could supposedly or possibly prepare for privatisation, of which, God, we'll all benefit. How much and how much have we benefited from, I repeat the 2007 data to you, and where are we today compared to 2007? Don't let's just blame the world crisis. Time doesn't allow me to speak any further, but once again, you can't get this country out of a huge amount of interest on current loans, for which we don't have a report or where they're invested, or what effects, in article 34, you get the right to pass the procedure to also be in charge of the liquidity of some legal persons or for the most impossible purposes, except for example. for what are the extraordinary circumstances in which Serbia's citizens themselves are at risk of health. You're asking us to go past the budget reserve, past all discretionary rights, to change 5% of the appraisals as you will. It means you spend 40 billion without us knowing. The fact that this is the seventh budget doesn't tell you that you've been doing it for four months, because in November you gave us to verify what you spent all year. It's real statistics and real math. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49225	The word is from Ambassador Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49226	Dear People's MPs, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, respected Mrs Comic, before I begin to defend the budget, I would say that in this debate so far, in which I have been present all along, I have not heard literally any of the proposals that should be done differently with this draft budget, with the resources that the Government has at present, the way it would be distributed, what different tax policy should be, what a different investment policy, where the state should invest, from which means, in which way and how in a given economic situation, with the worst government that we have in the area in history, can be done something better and how to offer Serbian citizens an alternative. So, we've heard different criticisms, some kind of binoculars, and from some MPs, I'd say, seriously, who at least tried to make their criticism serious. We've also heard a few accounting, a lot of reliable analyses, but we haven't really heard any concrete proposal in which way it could be done differently at this point, which doesn't mean, of course, that these proposals won't be. I must at first deny what Mr Ilic said, when he said – the whole budget is the Ministry of Economy, NIP etc. When we talk about percentages, if I wanted to be cynical, I could say the way it really is, that the economy ministry's budget is just a little over 5% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia and less than that. This fascination with individual ministries and ministers has become evidently subject to a certain personal relationship, rather than a different economic vision. I'm sorry to say that, but some things obviously can never change. I must say that we too are dissatisfied with some things, and I suppose what the Minister has said is well behind the scenes, there have been some struggles of different political priorities on how to distribute the funds and at this point we have some kind of political, rather than the economic compromise of the budget. In any case, we cannot, regardless of what we are from the ruling coalition, say the fact that the government did well in the previous period, that honestly and honestly the minister said there were more rebalancing, that we are working in conditions that do not mean any economic predictability, that today, as we speak, in Romania, which is a member of the EU, a man from national television has jumped in the middle of parliament desperate for the state of the country's economy or what policy is run by the government. So nowhere is ideal. In Greece, also an EU member country, we watch every day hundreds of thousands of people fiercely demonstrate against the austerity measures that the IMF has imposed on the Greek government as an obligation to withdraw certain funds to get out of the crisis it is in. A colleague Andric was talking about some kind of salary in the region. Our salaries have fallen in euros, but I think it was an adjustment resulting from the fact that Serbia has a flexible exchange rate. Many of the countries he compared us with have a fixed exchange rate. I don't think that comparison in economic terms was very good. Also, it should be said that the budget framework is something that we couldn't change and that won't change any of the next governments, if the Budgetary System Act is followed, as well as the fiscal responsibility measure and that, using the elements of fiscal responsibility, our deficit for next year is projected at 4.1% of GDP. It should be a step towards a path that says that in 2015 it will amount to no more than one per cent of GDP. These are some criteria that the EU is asking us to do. In addition to excises and other things, as there have been ironic comments here, there are also some really important macroeconomic criteria which Serbia is presenting and meeting better than some EU members at the moment. When we talk about the fiscal deficit, by adopting the budget law and fiscal responsibility, we have what is for one state, if it wants to be stable, most importantly, and that is the predictability of public finances. Anyone who wants to invest in Serbia can say that there are red tape, that there is corruption, that there are problems, that there are some excess regulations, but can't say that there is no predictability of public finances and can't say – I don't know if we're going to invest in this country, who knows what's going to happen in 2014 or 2015. We also support it as a political party. We are absolutely in favour of avoiding what happened before 2000 and after 2000 through fiscal accountability laws, which is how budgets are spent during some pre-election year. If we expect the 2012 elections, if we are not forced out of the government at the end of January, 2011 is indeed a pre-election year, but I cannot, as malicious as I am, see that the budget is made in a way that is a pre-election year. I think it's a good thing, because this way we're making a step out of some party state where we've all lived together for a very long time. The economic parameters on which this budget is projected and what we're talking about today are also an indicator that it's not as black as we could hear in the last few hours. So, if we live in Serbia that achieved a modest growth of 1.5% of GDP during 2010, if the projection is to be twice as many in 2011, then it is unclear for me and I cannot accept the argument that Serbia is in recession. If in 2010, it allowed a partial solution to the country's biggest problem, which is the external trade deficit, with twice as much export growth as imports, then I cannot accept the fact that we are the worst in the region. If we expect such a trend to continue in 2011 and 2012, then it is much better for the economy to go that way than to have some formal document that, as Mr Popovic said, as – what a new model of growth you have when you do not have any document. This is a post-crisis model of economic growth and development in Serbia by 2020, with some of our leading economists, some of them and the prime minister's advisers involved. I think the approach shown here is much more important than the fact that it's some kind of document adopted by a government body that stands on a government website. We had dozens of different economic documents in the past that were official elements, so there was nothing. Besides, I don't remember before 2000, for example. The government adopted a document to make annual inflation 100,000%, yet it did happen in real life. There have been a lot of grudges when we talk about government measures in crisis, but I would say that I am absolutely for liberal capitalism and our political party, it seems to me that by working in the past period it has also shown that for this, but also the fact that, when the crisis occurs, then the world's most liberal countries, such as the United States, have, for example, joined certain state interventionism. Because in a situation where you are threatened by the collapse of the market, when a market collapse can lead to the collapse of the entire economic system, it is quite logical that the state intervenes in an attempt to ensure macroeconomic and financial stability. This was done by Serbia, but it was also, and no one said it, one of the few countries that, for example, did. Not a single penny of its taxpayers' assets was invested in some banks, to get them out of the collapse they were in. Today we're hearing stories about how public debt is high, and no one's going to say it's for example. 50% of the state's direct debt structure, the internal, the old foreign savings obligation we've been returning since 31.5.2002, so we need to return it to completion since 31.5.2016. So, every year, 300m euros in taxpayers single out to pay back the savings they took to citizens before 2000. So each year, one bridge on Ada or six bridges in Beška, as calculated by Mr. Ilic, went as a government obligation to what the debt the state had made and which it could not escape from. Of course, regardless of what we really sincerely defend this budget completely, we are not running away from talking about what measures the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has taken over the past two years, which have been criticised as subsidies through loans, through subsidies to private enterprises, through unemployment measures. I think that some of the results that should not be hidden and citizens should know that through the programme of measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis, concluded on 13 December 2010, small businesses in Serbia raised 2660 liquidity loans of 47.499.393m euros, that they raised dinar loans of 204.152m euros, that during the crisis there were investment loans, I'm talking only about small businesses, I'm not talking about realised loans of medium and large enterprises, amounting to 64,757m euros, 1292 investment loans, that through consumer loans, citizens were buying cars, 11,208 in the amount of 75m euros, that there were also other types of consumer loans for agricultural machinery, furniture, etc. These are some results that have allowed a serious liquidity crisis in the Serbian economy to be over and the economy to continue to function normally at a time when economic downturn has led to a serious crisis of liquidity in the Serbian economy. As far as subsidies to private companies are concerned, we've heard a lot of criticism. At this point, it is also verifiable data, it is active through all loans, I will tell you exactly 129 different projects, which together bring more than 700m euros in investment in Serbia and create around 20,000 jobs. For these 700m euros, the state granted 70m euros through subsidies to private enterprises. It is a measure that will not be possible in Serbia when we enter the EU, but it is a measure that cannot be criticised at the moment because of the need to have as many foreign direct investments as possible and I do not believe that anyone can criticise the fact that a factory that is supposed to hire 600 people in Leskovac is open or, as we have heard, that "Jura" corporation is some kind of mask that needs to hide what, to hide the fact that it is a foreign investment that has come from the planned 1,000 people who are working there today, instead of dragging themselves here in the streets in front of the Privatisation Agency. There are a lot of such companies, it's not this opportunity to talk about it, but it's not invisible measures, it's nothing that's secret and it's nothing that has no results. We can talk about whether it might have been different, but we haven't heard any suggestions. We are fully open to hear how we can have foreign direct investment in Serbia and how it can happen in Serbia to be an economic boom at a time when there is a global economic crisis. Of course, these are all the measures relating to the time when 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively, was the global economic crisis. We think that chapter is kind of closed. I therefore believe that the government must turn to a new economic policy that implies that the fight against bureaucracy is strengthened, that there is much less corruption and crime, because corruption and crime are one of the biggest barriers to foreign direct investment and investors, that the state must gradually step out of the economy, because it is always better to give less money from the budget to the state, and that it is possible for some private investor to spend it, invest, etc. What this budget has shown is that the government is as big as it is, with this number of functions, becoming the narrow throat of the Serbian state or economy or economy and that there must be a need that does not have to be political, but can towards Serbia's decentralisation. This is in any case one process which has clearly received the support of almost all relevant political parties. There are different suggestions on the agenda, but I'm just trying to argue that it doesn't mean a more expensive state, I'm going to say that for example. This year we pay more than 400 million dinars from the budget for the operation of 29 administrative districts in Serbia. If someone tells me what these districts are doing, where the representatives of the ruling coalition's parties are sitting, what results they bring, if it's worth so much, then I'll be the first to fight further regionalisation and decentralisation. There is also a possibility in existing means that a certain redistribution can create some kind of different organization. When we talk about the budget, then we need to see what those funds are up to. Because of citizens, 15.63% go to staff expenditures, to 4.3 subsidies, to 27.30% transfers grants. That's where I'm going to stick to the criticism that we got about reforming the pension system and that this year's donation to mandatory social insurance organisations 274 billion. Pensions have been taken over. It's been 10 years since 2000 and it could reform the pension system, it's not. We don't want to go back who missed all that opportunity, but it's certain that at this point the rights enjoyed by individual pensioners aren't the same. Someone has acquired that right in the right way, to the end by fulfilling their job experience, someone unfortunately is not, but can't get the right to end it. I am glad that Susana Grubjesic will talk about how we support reform of the pension system in the coming period in an attempt to make it a much smaller part than is now a social product. I'll take a brief look at the accompanying laws. As for excise duties, of course, it's hard to fight excise duty, especially on cigarettes, but there was some impression that it didn't happen there, if I may say, communication with foreign investors. What we could see in the media, I guess it could have been done differently. There was a specific action plan, but I think it's some message we're sending to future investors that we should take care of it. As for the effects of an increased VAT, we'll be determined to see if there can be any changes. We've got plenty of time. In any case, it is one measure to which the government was practically forced to have higher incomes. As far as the property tax is concerned, I wanted to say, that's what I said to the Minister's Finance Committee, and I think we agreed, of course, that the property tax can't be a social category, but as long as we don't make all Serbian citizens pay property tax, at this point, a large number of citizens don't pay property tax, so far it's not fair or fair to charge citizens who normally pay property tax neatly. Since this is the income of local self-government, I hope that local self-government, motivated by the fact that the state has set the upper limit for the property tax, will make an effort in the coming period to ensure the principle of justice and to charge all citizens the property tax, because it is the only way to justify the fact that today we have made or are making a decision to increase the tax on property. I think it's also a good thing the minister initially referred to the deadlines. We talked about it. There were budget rebalances and other requirements. What is important to us is that a macroeconomicly respected agreement with the IMF. We're not afraid of the fact that it stands out, maybe even extends, maybe it's an agreement that's going to be a shade lower than an agreement where we withdraw funds, where we'll just have a duty to respect certain criteria. I think it's important at this point for Serbia, and the first time we entered into a crisis with the IMF, we were also not praised, as we are now criticised for why the agreement stands out. We can't extend it, because it's signed on so many clicks it's signed and it's going on and there's an opportunity to extend if there's a will for both sides. I'd say in the end, and that the DRI work we've been supporting since the very beginning and the fact that she controlled over 70% of the funds last year, I end up proving that there's also control over what's being spent. Anyway, we're not gonna stand in their way. They should do their job, file criminal or criminal charges, if there is a basis, but there is no basis to criticise the fact that the DRI is doing its job. The government is doing its job, the Assembly is doing theirs, DRI's, but I don't think they're the things that can cross each other. There will be opportunities for discussion in the next period. We will support this budget as proof that Serbia has been through two and a half years of economic crisis and recession in a way that some other countries in the EU environment have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49227	The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49228	You see, ladies and gentlemen, before I look back at this budget, I need to say something to Mr. Senic. Mr Senić, you cannot, in one country, if you consider it serious, collect property tax to citizens and in some way be responsible for putting it to the citizens, and before that, within 10 years in power, the same state failed to secure the legalisation process, to provide a housing cadasar, and for all this time not to provide for the construction of the country's market price and the market price of real estate. You can change your property taxes as much as you want, but until these four things or preconditions are settled in this country, we won't have an adequate charge of property taxes. Your stories about the EU and European standards are illusory when the basic things in ten years have not only failed, you have not shown serious will and ability to resolve them, so in 2003 you promised legalisation, so in 2009 it failed, and at the end of 2010, Minister Dulic announced free legalisation, so we who paid her fools. Right? So if we're talking about some aspects or tax revenues budgets, tax expenditures, you said nicely, let's say that story has one whole, one very broad aspect and a view. This budget, Mrs Dragutinovic, is a confirmation and evidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to offer the state a new economic concept, that you are unable to meet the priority challenges of leading a quality fiscal policy, which are primarily the impact of election cycles on budgetary design, on the one hand and, on the other hand, this document, in its essence and content, is an expression of pathological political struggles in the budgetary process, as you said, and pathological political struggles in the process, or in negotiations on priorities within the ruling coalition. That's what you said. This is all pathology in numbers, economic classifications, divisions, heads, whatever you want. No one argues that you did the technical work right, but what you essentially put into it, we'll only see it in 2011, we can only guess. One more thing Mr. Senic said, no one can agree with it, and today's laws we adopt, which you say are good, but they are a complete failure, changing and amending the law in the budget system and other tax laws are proof that there is no fiscal predictability here. It just doesn't exist. That's not true. As long as this is the case in this country, there will be no investment, as long as the country's status, real estate, planning strategic documents will not be an investment, but you can't deal with it because you're patching up holes in the Sith that represent a coalition deal and you're going to meet the demands of certain ministers who have full, totally sick ambitions. I respect Mr. Senic for gathering the courage to talk for at least 15 minutes about the budget we consider disastrous. With amendments to the Budgetary System Act, you will trust the budget management, the prime minister, spoke for three minutes, three minutes and left here, the one responsible for the budget custody in 2011, which provides for amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. If that's the case, how did the Prime Minister tell us, why are we discussing the budget under these conditions? Anything you could have broken, sent a budget from the government to the Assembly and started discussing it, you've stepped down, the Budget System Act from the budget calendar to the fiscal principles. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, did not make this budget in line with fiscal principles, you changed the fiscal principles to make the budget in line with fiscal principles. First we are discussing the budget, and then we are going to discuss changing these fiscal principles, the Budgetary System Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of course, which says that the budget in the procedure should sit for at least 15 days to be adequately discussed and then someone asks us why you didn't make any concrete suggestions here? And what should we suggest? After all, can the political will that you're handling accept and want to accept any good proposal? He wants some tomorrow. You know as well as I don't, not because you won't, but because you can't, because if they were good relationships and quality, you wouldn't wait and torture them on the one hand with your government about adopting certain items and positions and who knows how long your tolerance would have gone and acting if it hadn't been for the IMF. We who are the biggest opponents of the presence and arrangement with the IMF can only be grateful that he was here. Who knows what the deficit would have been if it hadn't been for him, and who knows what's been waiting for us since April when they leave. It is devastating, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we have paid economic sovereignty for the fact that you cannot negotiate within the government and cannot devote yourself to the strategic interests of this country. Look at what the figures say about this document, and what it says on the other hand, in the light of this document. You're talking about saving today. What did they tell us? Saving measures. Where are the austerity measures in this budget? Can those who defend the budget from the aspect of the austerity measure tell you through the figures where the austerity measures are? Ten billion dinars this year will pay more for the salaries and three billion dinars more than the previous year will go on taxes and contributions. Are those austerity measures? How many public sectors have you reduced in accordance with the laws that you have laid before us, about the maximum number of employees in the state administration and in local self-government, tell us that? What difference does this budget make in the context of savings compared to the previous one? You have the Ministry of Environmental Protection, you have the Environmental Protection Agency, you have the Environmental Protection Fund, so you have the salaries of one, the salaries of the other, then the salaries of the third, so you have specialized services with one, then specialized services with the other, and specialized roles with the third. So you have the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, so you have the Office for decentralisation of Serbia, so you have the Office for the Development of underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, and here the political question is what are our administrative districts doing? What do public agencies do to us, and you haven't given up any of these budgets? Minister Milan Markovic accepts the stance after ten years and says they are an unconstitutional category. You have also decided in this budget to fund them and to pay them. Why didn't you show good faith to put an end to one and say, "Here, public spending is shrinking, we're reducing a state apparatus that's inefficient and inconsistencies." There's something that's not constitutional, which hasn't economically justified the purpose of its existence, and we're ending it now. We don't even invite you to accept the responsibility of spending the money of government officials, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia all these years. and we hear from the Minister of State that they're unconstitutional categories. You're talking about reducing public spending the moment you boast you'll raise wages and pensions. Sometimes you'll increase them, and do you know what the citizens will spend it on? That they pay an increase in taxes that you'll also adopt with this. The fact that you're going to increase them 2%, just to pay an increase in property tax and VAT taxes, bananas, oranges, and everything else that comes, that southern fruit that they're going to eat. You're not naive to give up money. Everything you give them, that's what I said in the process of passing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and officials, all of which will come out to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you will all be very good and fat to collect. When I say you, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia run by the verse, not by the strategy and projection of this country, not by the long term, but by the middle or the short term. In this country and in this budget, it says that the only thing that can be recognised as a long-term projection, Mrs Dragutinovic, is our debts. In 2031, the last payments will be paid for the loans you pulled, spent, and none of us feel the effects of that money in Serbia. I'll be retired in 2031, for God's sake, to live that year. Only, Mrs Dragutinovic, which in this country is certain in fiscal terms, are Mr Senic, our debts and nothing more. How's the borrowing situation next year? Have you reduced them? Have you reduced them? I don't want to read numbers, I got them here, but it doesn't matter if I read them. We have come to the situation, Mrs Dragutinovic, that you have made it possible for businesses, direct, indirect budget users to be in debt, so you give these same people new guarantees in 2010. You're planning for these same companies to bail out in 2012. They run guarantees. Seven billion dinars next year, you're going to pay for someone's irresponsibility and inability, and you know what you're doing over it? Over all of this, Mrs Dragutinovic, you're either the same losers or the losers you're subsidizing. That economic logic cannot be understood by the one who walked past the economic high school, and not by the degree of economic college or by God's doctorate. How much more of that? Is this the economic policy Serbia needs, which most are talking about? To be in charge, to pay off their budget loans and to subsidize them, and to make very specific amendments to all these reactions? We, gentlemen of the ruling majority, have suggested through amendments that you reduce the budget deficit by 30 billion and it is not true that it cannot be otherwise, that this is the only possible. You got it. We have potentiated precisely those economic classifications which, as problematic and controversial, have been detected by the State Auditing Institution and have not, Madam Minister, been unreasonablely reducing them, we have reduced them in the range of 10 to 20, 25%, according to various reports by those dealing with specialised services, contract services, construction buildings and other costs put them in their pocket, 10, 15 and 20%, by so much you can reduce the level of the entire budget of that position. We didn't bring the story to that, but we didn't question any of our amendments to the functioning of the state. We didn't question any wages, whatever we think about it, and we didn't question any taxes or contributions. With one amendment, we have given the SRS a chance to show good will to actually reduce public spending, so that you can take one office whose existence is completely pointless and to abolish it, but we have not taken these people's salaries through this amendment, but we have suggested that all other costs, other than the basic ones, be transferred or removed from those positions for their administrative functioning. To reduce the budget deficit in the context of this, and to resolve these people in 2011 by taking them over to the constitutional state authorities, and those who deserve to retire let them retire and preserve certain fiscal potential under control so as not to spend how it was spent, as the auditor tells us irresponsibly, etc. We suggested something concrete. We'll discuss it in detail. We can't understand that loans and guarantees are given to JAT. We were here a few days or weeks ago having a big debate. I was convinced by the authorities that we don't know what we're talking about, that 10 days after that the director would change. The people on the inside were saying that the loan you granted 50m euros won't give anything new, and you're predicting a new 140m guarantee for borrowing that same JAT. In light of the text of the law, do you know what you're saying? The definition of restructuring of the economy. Your restructuring of the economy is all about selling Telecom. There's a bunch of public enterprises that are squirming in debt, cramping in trouble. You have no intention of being restructured because they are your wells for the election. You'll sell Telecom. It is the only straw of salvation in economic and fiscal terms for 2011. You're going to sell and it's going to be the economic downturn of this country just to postpone for a certain period of time, how long it takes for you to rip out for the election. What new economic policy are you talking about? Says the prime minister - a new model of growth. Did he see and read the book Vlajko Senic showed? The new growth model promotes savings and exports, and here increases public spending by increasing wages, increasing pensions, etc. Everything's funny to you, I know it, and we're hugging, the people are cramping. That's objective. You are called upon to improve exports, by way of economy. One of the economic priorities, the budget says, European integration. You know what the analysis says? Serbia's most complex economy is the EU's economy. Our export potential is the most unsatisfactory with imports. It'll be our priority in 2011. What are we talking about? What kind of development? What kind of economic growth? On the economic growth of the real sector in which each third company does not settle in time the loans it has withdrawn for liquidity. I'm not responsible, nor are the SRS for such an environment, but you. You predict loans for the railways, you predict guarantees for the railways, you predict subsidies for the railways. We've reduced the entire business story and development to "Fiat." We didn't take our subsidies off where we thought strategically they shouldn't and should not be taken off. We didn't even take them off the farm. We haven't even downloaded for greenfield investments, although we think some other brownfield investments should have priority and advantage. We didn't move them from there. We haven't touched the social component of this budget. It is understood that you are socially responsible for those you brought to the social stick, and how many people live in this country's welfare is best to ask them. We didn't keep money from health care and from many other things we don't think they should touch. What you've offered, is it possible that the only investment and the only interest of the state should be "Fiat". Enough state interventionism here. We boast foreign investment, which is funded by this country. Dear gentlemen from the ministry of reduction of one public sector employee on an annual basis provides money to subsidise two real-estate employees. Your social responsibility comes down to loans and withdrawing money for practically nothing, and instead of the budget deficit being created to raise the real sector and create a substrate from which all of the social functions of the state will finance, you run politics from today to tomorrow. There's no strategy or concept here. Unlike you, we do not defend Mr Cvetkovic from enjoying his hibernation that everything is great and beautiful and that we are expected by large projects, we have a great responsibility to the people who put us here to say that we have a difficult year ahead, as Boris Tadic said, unlike Mirko Cvetkovic, a difficult and disgusting year 2011. We can only imagine what it'll be like when the IMF leaves and we don't think of supporting a budget like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49229	Thank you. Right on the line, Mr. Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49230	First of all, to thank Mr. Stevanovic for the concrete suggestions he made and that's fine. It is the policy of a political party and of course tomorrow, when we are in opposition, we will criticise the budget and have a different approach to how to resolve it. But some things don't really stand. When you talk about debt and that predictable is the only debt in all of this, and that may be true that debt is predictable, but I don't see what's wrong with it. There's always talk to citizens about some kind of debt, as if this government had suddenly come from a state that didn't owe to anyone and that was great, and then it went on all of a sudden. Here on over 30 pages we have a description of why the state is in charge. But if you read that we have to pay unpaid pensions to farmers of 61m euros, an old foreign exchange savings that is part of an internal public debt of 2,389,355,310 euros. If we have to take credits that are very favourable to rebuilding the energy system, I'll just read to you under what conditions this country is taking loans. I'll read this one we got from the Russians, and we'll compare it. For example, we take six months of libor plus a fixed margin 007. We take 0.75% service costs, IDA loans, for example. I can find any example. It doesn't matter at all. But we have a debt to the Paris Club, which is usually after 2000, and you know it yourself, reduced, but it's still part of the public debt of a billion and 600. London Club – 760 million. All in all, there is no state in the world that is not in charge. So, no way. There is no company that is not in debt. If the company's not in charge, she's not doing well. There's only a question of what your credit rating is and how reliable you are. If you have a chance to be in charge, then it's a good thing, then you can invest and move forward. Our debt level is at 37-38% and it's not that high. I wish this country could fix the credit rating in the future so that it could be more indebted and more invested.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49231	Time. Thank you, Mr. Senic. Mr. Stevanović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49232	Mr. Senic, I can't help but think that you didn't understand me and didn't listen to me. But I haven't disputed for a moment that the state shouldn't be in debt. Where did I say that? When did I say that? I also spoke affirmatively here about the Russian loan, which you mentioned earlier about the Chinese loan, not because it is Chinese, but because we took it and for this loan this country will remain in reciprocity material value. I was talking here, and you will see through our amendments, if you look at them, we have challenged credits that we do not know why we are taking them, which we are pulling for pure abstraction. We did not intervene for loans related to old foreign exchange savings, which relate to bridges, which even apply to projects your ministry or your party finance, or political implementation through the National Investment Plan, which refers to infrastructure projects by municipalities etc. We didn't ask him to argue. That's why the money needs to be withdrawn and spent. But we don't understand that we're funding liquid liquidity. We don't understand the budget deficit, and we finance who knows what. We can't accept that. For capital expenses, we have nothing controversial. That only makes sense. But while you're at the company, can you tell us how many companies will have a positive credit rating in next year? How many companies are inequitable? In the structure of the loans that companies have withdrawn in this country, how many have been used for the introduction of new technologies, i.e. how much has been used as trade capital, and how much has only been used for paying debts and maintaining liquidity? That's the problem. We're not against credit, but the responsible home state needs to know what it's spending it on and what it's meant for. That's where we argue. It's no problem for them to retire, but the state needs to know where and what they're spending their money on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49233	Time, Mr. Stevanovic. Thank you. Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49234	So the difference isn't as big as it was four minutes ago. So the state should be in debt, the only question is where? If you're looking at the 120 billion budget deficit, then you can say -- let's cancel half the pensions so the state is going to be zero or it's going to be in some surplus. I'm talking about that it's impossible to eliminate any inherited obligations. This budget is primarily a social category. You're talking about transfers to local self-government, we're talking about pensions, we're talking about social benefits, we're talking about salaries. We're a social state. And pulling out loans is the only way we have as much as we do some kind of development, some investments and what kind of infrastructure development. Is it ideal? No, I don't. Are we the best possible government to do this? I'm sure we didn't. But I'm saying at this point macroeconomically, there's not much that can be done differently. If you have one state where you have 18% of the unemployed, if you have a broken infrastructure, if you have a fact that we are ten years away from the EU – there we are, where we are in that environment too, doing what we can. I'm talking about why we're in charge of the Republic government. Tomorrow when you're back on track, you'll do it another way. But I wouldn't underestimate any investment. We can't still bring high-tech, but if 600 people, I'm sorry, come make socks in Leskovac, and that's a good thing. If people come to Sombor, if Dajtek comes to Nis, etc. As far as the Fiat is concerned, it's a really important investment. If 200,000 vehicles need to go from Serbia to the EU market, don't I see what's wrong? We're a year late, a year and a half, but there was a crisis, a "Fiat" and there are problems in Italy, but we're heading towards that investment. You see how confident it is that we have given our partners that these funds stand with them. So there's no problem, everything's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49235	Thank you, Mr. Senic. He has the word Mr. Stevanović. This would end this cycle of very nice and good debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49236	Mr. Senic, unfortunately for you, you're more of a socialist state than a social state. Those are drastic differences. That's one thing. Secondly, I never said in my own word that the deficit should be lifted. Nor is it possible, as Mrs Dragutinovic said, overnight. We don't have that dilemma. But through the amendments, we have shown that the deficit can be reduced precisely in those positions where your government has made abuses and detected DRI. That's another thing. Third, you are not obliged as a state to introduce new technologies rather than create administrative, political and legal preconditions for investors to come here to introduce new technologies. Speaking of new technologies, let those investors who came to Fiat finance new technologies, because it's a private investment. And they come and praise themselves for being investors, and for the state to finance new technologies, it really doesn't make any economic sense. That's what we're arguing about, and that's where we have the dilemma. You can't convince us of that and find arguments in economic logic for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49237	Mr. Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49238	I'm sorry, I'll be very brief. As for the auditor, to repeat the thousandth time, let a man do his job, to file criminal charges, criminal charges, and whatever else. You saw that our youth ministry and sports went best in that audit last year. So we don't have a problem. Let people do their job. They have four times the budget, and it's due this year, or next year, to employ another 75 people. As far as the Fiat is concerned, you're asking why the state? It was the only way for the Fiat to come. So 2:1 was a formula -- two dinars or euros in investment "Fiita" one dinar of the state's investment, a promise to get land, to get infrastructure. It was the only way to bring "Fiat" to Serbia. There was no other way. "Fiat" was not interested in coming to Serbia under some ordinary conditions because it could go to Romania under such conditions. We've assessed. We take risks on ourselves, politically, economically, and every other. We think it's better to provide such conditions in Serbia to come and produce 200 000 vehicles here, employ 2,000 people, hire a whole accompanying machine, than go somewhere else and we say, you know what, we're not going to give you special conditions, we're going to keep paying 100 million yearly workers who come in there, apply to work, and then go out through the fence to process their gardens. So we wanted to change that. Is there a price being paid? Yes, it is. But I don't see it could have been any different. If you come to power tomorrow and they come to Folkswagen, Kraissler, other companies, without any special conditions, I'll be the first to congratulate you here and take off your hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49239	Thank you, too. Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49240	Mr. Senic, who says that this country has to be called "Fiat" and who says that in this country, the basic or basic industry has to be the automotive industry? It's one very political and economical and whatever the question is you want. Under these conditions that you provided them, only crazy wouldn't come here. But we expect something from them, that they spend a little money, show little will, 200,000 or 300,000 vehicles you promised, how many thousands of new jobs. When's that gonna happen? You promised that by 2008 or 2009 200m euros to be paid, they barely paid 100 million, and that you gave birth to a monkey to make them pay something like that. Please don't. Therefore, no one is against investment and industrial development, but something must have a measure. You have shown that you have no flexibility, and flexibility has not done anyone any good. We feel it well in both political and economic, both social and other terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49241	Thank you. Now we're off topic a little bit. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs. I give my word to Mr. Konstantin Arsenović. Mr. Arsenović, do you want a word? Mr. Peric, as an authorised representative, you'll get your word in the end. Mr. Arsenović, if you want a word, you'll get it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49242	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of government representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, is now a little bit of a misunderstanding, the system should have been talked about earlier by Mr. Djuro Peric, so this discussion of mine would better fit in with the overall debate. However, no matter how I prepare and give my exposure, I will do so. In this time, as far as I can see, about six minutes, I will try to comment on the Budget Law and the Amendment Bill and the addition of the Law on PIO, from the point of view of the problem of the beneficiary of military pensions, with a desire to point to some problems that may have negative consequences. Before I move on to these problems myself, I want to highlight one of the two findings in general, that we simply have to bear in mind that the economic situation in which our country is located is difficult and that we cannot safely satisfy all our wishes through this budget. This means one thing, that we must seek certain compromises, and secondly, that the Bill on Amendments and Retirements of the Retirement System Act provides the fact that the IMF has concluded that this law is the least restrictive compared to all countries in the environment. Now with regard to these problems I wanted to connect with the users of military pensions, I would first of all like to point out that the Law on the Serbian Army since 1 January 2008, due to its adoption, there have been significant changes in the rights of beneficiaries of military pensions. This law abolished the basic right to coordinate pensions and introduced the principle that pensions are harmonised according to the rules of the employees of the PIO Fund. Military pensioners felt that their rights had been lifted, asking for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Serbian Military Law, the position on the issue has not yet been obtained. During the period from 2000 to 2004 until December 2007, military pensioners have been holding a dispute over abolished rights or unmistakable pension income obligations. For this first debt, the so-called large debt since 2000, which has stemmed from a lack of respect for the current regulations on how to align military salaries and beneficiaries of military pensions, some 8,000 lawsuits have been launched, many of which are ready to go to court in Strasbourg. If they exercise their rights, I fear Serbia will face an unresolved financial problem. For the second debt, the so-called small debt, which originated from August and October 2004 until December 2007, for which it is a member of 193. Serbia's Military Law regulates that within 90 days, the government will bring a solution to the way and dynamics of regulating the debt, which has not been regulated by the government, and does not exist in this budget either. Based on this debt, between 15,000 and 20,000 lawsuits, some 5,000 of which received a dispute and charged the debt. Unfortunately, the dispute could not run the most vulnerable categories of military pensioners because they could not finance court fees that averaged between 50,000 and 70,000 dinars per lawsuit. During 2011, it is expected that this debt, based on forced court decisions, will bring its right to a significant number of beneficiaries of military pensions. The sum was estimated to amount to approximately 2.5 billion dinars, which could result in a halt in the payment of regular pensions. In order to avoid this, I have submitted an amendment to the Budget Law which increases the resources of the SOVO Fund for those funds. I guess the amendment won't be accepted, but I felt obliged to point out this problem. This assumes the government's obligation to comply with Article 133. The Law on the Serbian Army and on the basis of Article 79 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Pension and Disabilities System as soon as possible to adopt an appropriate act on how to pay off the debt in a correct and legal manner. Regarding this debt, I point out that on 1 January 2008, it was 4.5 billion. Today, he has interest rates, which are now at 105%, and the court costs have increased to about 10 billion dinars. We believe that there was a good will of the authorities, this debt could have been settled in due time and at the height of the real debt. In addition to the debt, there is an ongoing trial to exercise the right to increase pensions in 2008 by around 11%, but the right has been denied by military pensioners, although a new Law on the Serbian Army has already entered into force. The entry into force of the Law on Serbia's Army, when it comes to the pension system of military insurance companies, has virtually disrupted pension ratios. Those who retired in 2008 and by the beginning of 2009, compared to those who retired before 2008, have more pensions than 15% to 30%. (President: Mr. Arsenović, time. Please finish. ) Since I see time running out, I would just like to say in the end that from the perspective of the beneficiary of military pensions, Article 79. The draft law amending and supplementing the PIO Act is a key member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49243	Thank you. The estimated time is up. Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, today when we are discussing the budget for next year, as well as during the debate on the rebalancing of this year's budget, we cannot identify the most minimal changes in the direction of improving the difficult economic situation in undeveloped areas. In fact, as the most underdeveloped, we have an increasingly difficult situation, with a dramatic fall in people's income per capita, with a catastrophic rise in unemployment rates. I must admit that in the case of Presevo Valley, even through the Coordination Body, there has been no more serious involvement by the Ministry of Industry and Regional Development in solving this dramatic situation. I voted in favour of this year's budget, due to an increase of 20% of the funds for the Coordination Body, and above all because of the creation of this favourable atmosphere in the work of the reconstructed body, and what we did last year. However, immediately with the rebalancing we had in November, without prior consultations, there was a reduction of the projected funds for the Coordination Body, and the most difficult thing was that the funds in the economic classification of social protection fees were cut from the planned 80 million to 61 million dinars, in order to bring this economic classification down to the amount of 26 million dinars by the budget next year. On this occasion, I would like to point out that this drastical reduction in the most sensitive position such as social protection compensation, without any consultation with the legitimate representatives of this area, is an unconstructive procedure of the Government, which without any reason ignores the objectives set when adopting the 2010 budget, and is also brutally downplaying the efforts made to create a favourable climate to address very difficult sensitive problems in the Presevo Valley. Nevertheless, I was then decided to vote this year's budget even though I am not part of the parliamentary majority. I really don't know why the government should have left the concept so quickly that it was working through the Coordination Body for a project in the field of health and education and for the support of vulnerable groups, to speed up the rise of economic levels and integration into the social system, which were intended to be achieved through social protection benefits, and this proposal now reduces by four times compared to last year's budget. Now in the budget rebalancing debate, I have stated that these drastic reductions are quite illogical and unacceptable, especially when it is known that in this area, where the Presevo municipality, which has neither a folk kitchen, is in this difficult social situation, and that in the Land Area of Security of these municipalities, for 10 years there are no minimum conditions for the return of the evasive population, there are over 5,000 people who have left their areas and have not yet been returned. The most disastrous fact is that, in addition to last year's agreement, a sentence is deleted from the budget's reasoning that through economic classifications of machinery and equipment, construction facilities, projects in Serbian settlements will be financed in order to prevent the migration of the Serbian population. I was simply deceived because I thought I was able to convince the government at least then by the fact that they left this area, that there were mass migrations, but there are far more Albanians in those migrations who left the area in the period from 1991 to 1992, and I find it really incomprehensible why they care about a national group, but it is a catastrophic lack of concern for the national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49245	The word has an MP, Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49246	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in one of the definitions of what the budget represents, it is said that the political will of the majority in parliament is expressed in figures. It's the expression of some state policy for that year. That's exactly what I'm worried about, because for years we've been talking in this House about the national income of Sandzak citizens, what the unemployment rate is, what the degree of investment in this region is. In three terms as an MP, I have asked the government since 2000 to deliver a single report on what Mr. Dežer said nearly 10 billion of our state received a donation, and we have never received a report on the schedule of these funds in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by areas, by cities, by municipalities. I know how the schedule was made. What I want to point out again, which is that I was never an advocate of the state's need to invest in production, to become an entrepreneur, because since 2000 those who led the country's economy have said that the state is a bad entrepreneur, it needs to get out of business, and that's why we've started the privatisation process. But we also have a case of entering somewhere with 400 million budgets to make it possible for some foreign investment, and then we invest in tourism for the Old Mountain for tens of millions, and then we make conversions of various debts into the capital of some new firm, then we don't let some company go bankrupt because we think it's a national interest, that "Srbigas" becomes the owner, then we want to go to business – neither fish nor girl. If that's the case, why didn't we go into debt conversion, why did we bring Raška down, why didn't the state say - Mr. Omeragic, find a strategic partner, here's 100m euros from the budget as for Kragujevac and we'll find a strategic partner. Whether it's "Beneton" or some other world textile company, but we don't do it in all regions and we don't do it in all the same cases. We have to do this and we have to pay attention to that simply, or we'll develop evenly or we'll get into a situation where this budget is somebody's mother and someone's stepmom. You have a current unemployment rate in Novi Pazar 55% with a growth trend, you'll have next year at the African level and it's time, gentlemen, to start at some rate of investment you have in other regions, to do debt conversions, to do everything you do on the Old Mountain and to do it in Novi Pazar, Tutin, Novi Varosha, Priboj, nothing less than the Old Mountain, and so should you do for Golia, where the government has not done the sewerage. We simply don't have the same relationship with our regions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49247	The time foreseen for a parliamentary group of minorities is completely exhausted. We understand and we thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the NS parliamentary group will not support this draft budget, given that so many laws have been passed at one point in the agenda, each of which deserves a special debate. In particular, three legislative solutions are acute, which is the Law on the budget of the RS for 2011, amendments and additions to the Law on PIO and the Law on public property tax. Each of these legal projects deserved to be discussed, he deserved certain media attention and here what should be said is that it is particularly hypocritical of the government to deliver them within such a short period of time, to give the debate too little attention to the seriousness they represent and the concern they give to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular that there is not enough space in the media for these laws and enough attention for these laws concerning each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about the budget and we'd be just as hypocritical as the Government, if we said that this budget, which we got two days ago, we'd read that all 1,111 or 1,112 pages and the additional material that followed it, we could study it. I don't think anyone in this matter can do it fully professionally, let alone the MPs who have a really large number of obligations and a large number of laws to be studied and should adequately represent the interests of the citizens of this house. So what I have to agree with, which is Ms. Minister at the start of defending indefensible, is that the budget is difficult to bring in in every country and at any time. That's true and the fact that the budget came to us two days before the debate shows that he was not brought here hard, he arrived here very easily and counts on his very fast passing time, almost some slalom ski time, but he was having a hard time passing government sessions. That's exactly what I'm saying about that moment of party aversion, which Mr. Prime Minister invited us to do and asked us not to show, probably by not being able to get into our own portfolio, or in the government to deal with it. What this budget certainly presents, it is a huge party acuity and a great haughtiness of individual ministries. I have to tell Mrs. Minister, just to ask her, at the next session of the government, to tell the Minister of Education that I resent him very much for not showing even enough impudence, or enough struggle to kidnap a lot more money for his ministry, so we tried to make some amendments. I hope there's gonna be some hearing, but given the items we were planning on taking it with, I'm guessing it'll just be a dead letter on paper. So, if the budget is difficult to pass, it means that the budget should be taken responsibly, seriously, thinking about each pair of budgets, because the budget is not the government's property, the government is not profitable, the budget is the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, each citizen has the right to see the spending of budgets at every moment of every day of this year. What this budget represents is certainly a new borrowing. I will return to what I can quote, and what Mrs. Minister said - that we should take a look at the borrowing in the new light. Personally, when someone mentions me borrowing a new, old or whatever, I don't see any light, it immediately falls dark on my eyes. And most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believe me, when someone mentions borrowing, given the experience of this private banking sector that we have introduced, it falls dark on their eyes as soon as someone mentions it. Let's not talk about what's followed by any borrowing. These new commitments, which are being implemented at this point in the agenda, will also include new borrowings and new commitments. Here, of course, will be introduced a new VAT on the only branch that we tried so shyly last year to promote, as a new light that would bring us divine reinforcements, refreshments, and that's tourism, and then we introduced VAT. Then a colleague here just said that most likely many arrangements, and they were not sold out in an enormous number, would be cancelled. So we'll figure out at the end of this year that the most expensive bed in tourism will be an empty bed. But then, perhaps at the end of the year, or we or some new congregation, we will have a chance to talk again. So, if the budget were not so difficult to bring, then we would look at some other examples, so some countries that share a similar history, such as Poland, which is already in the EU, brings the budget by the end of September, in October it is mandatory in parliament and adopts it by the end of January. It's the most important document and it's been discussed for four months. Each amendment shall be carefully measured, each MP shall be informed of the fate of his amendment and of what it will be if its amendment is adopted. These are countries that do not know the concept of rebalancing, i.e. do not know the excessive consumption, the government must plan everything at that moment if the government has to exceed its financial bible, so to speak, which it has brought and presented to the citizens, the government falls. So it's responsible and difficult to get a budget. When the budget comes to 48 hours before the principle debate, on 1,200 impressive sides, before which one Lion Tolstoy would really sigh and say, "I can't make this in two lifetimes," then we can't talk about a difficult budget-making process, we can say that it's irresponsible, easy, rather unserious to adopt such a budget. The fact that there was trouble in the government, the Minister knows well, that everyone suffered certain blackmails, which was a constant tuning, so citizens also know a lot about it from the culinary stories. What we also know is that the IMF is extremely unhappy with this budget project. Also, we can say that there are some tendencies that the budget was thought not to come. Everything in the government has been discussed. There were a lot of hard words and big words. However, as it is said in the people, he was born, and now he should rock him. We are rocking it and trying to distract it, not so many ministers, who are powerless here to change anything, but to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia as one government refers to the budget and what in the next term, in the next elections citizens should expect from the next government and how to seek responsibility, to place themselves more strictly towards their future ministers. Still, it'll give some other result. This budget has an impressive third member, who, of course, promotes and announces the new responsibilities I have already spoken of. Here it is being promoted with this budget to invest in a private company. It seems to me that "Fiat" is more our thing than Angelie herself, and we prefer it closer and closer. If we had thought about it honestly, if we'd invested so much money in some of our privates, some small privates, we'd have made them big industrialists by now, but we haven't. We've given our privates a lot less credit lines. What is also announced as some light at the end of the tunnel, it is the sale of Telekom, one of the monopolist resources, which are considered inadmissible in the opinion and budgets of truly excellent economists. That is the easiest word I can use to sell Telekom, because the serious countries in the EU, which we call upon and which we are happy to see, and which we only quote or copy when it suits us, have not sold state control packages in important companies. Just remind yourself that Telenor is still a company that is now one of the operators with us, and most of it owns exactly the state. There are state-owned companies, in these countries not all privatised, which do very well business, which are doing great business, but there is a second principle there – it is not allowed for the management of such companies to be a polygon for the exercise of party personnel, but the management is exclusively set up by the most professional and most capable who correspond to the state. We have had exactly the opposite situation, so many public enterprises have made it difficult to practice problematic party personnel, which by then perhaps, or very often, did not even have any respectable personal and work biography. What this budget definitely brings is an increase in the deficit that is already seriously rising. Saving is announced. When you look at the budget and the measures that are being promoted, it's exports, which I would really care about what we're exporting so impressively, that we can rely on and count on it to be some way out of this crisis. And a savings that should, I guess, break over the back of all citizens, except over the back of the government. We don't see much important savings in the budget when it comes to government members. I'm just going to modestly remind myself, really modestly, of some means that always bother me and always appear. For example, the famous item in the budget – services per contract, which includes everything and everything, which, at the time, I asked the vice-president's cabinets for a parliamentary question to get a specification of what these services are under contract to certain cabinets of the government. We never got that. So let's say, in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration... (President: Please finish time is up.) I'll finish, I'll just ask one question at the end, I've got so much time left for the parliamentary group, Madam Minister. So, Madam Minister, you don't have to answer this question publicly, but this is how I ask you, because I have a really special sympathy for you, would you trust your personal budget to any of the colleagues with whom you are sitting at your disposal and creating? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49249	Thank you. The question isn't really about the budget. The word is Mr. Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49250	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our colleague Zoran Kasalovic expressed the position of the SPS-JS parliamentary group when it comes to the draft budget and the accompanying tax laws on the budget, and I would not repeat it. I want to take the opportunity to call the government once again, as I have the habit of saying this to my government, to review the need to increase VAT when it comes to hotel accommodation, accommodation in resorts, given that the effects are not great, and the damage can be greater, given the branch in Serbia that can contribute to Serbia's development. Secondly, I also want to say that we expect the government to take another look at the property tax given that it is not fair enough. Thus, when a progressive rate is lifted, it makes it easier for the rich, and it is introduced to those who regularly pay taxes. Considering that in the same way, a flat is taxed where one person lives and an apartment where six live without where else to live. So it's a great responsibility on local self-government that in these parameters that have been given find first one solution. Next thing you know, I want to stick around, it's a bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. There were few words about him today, given that the budget is still Serbia's most important law, where attention is paid to it. When it comes to the bill, I want to make a few points. First, we believe that the bill should be observed, so it should be borne in mind what circumstances it is brought in. I'll just count three. The first circumstance is Serbia's international commitment through an arrangement with the IMF to reduce the fiscal deficit compared to the gross social product. Second, the change in the structure of public spending towards reducing current expenditure and increasing public investment. Third, the government's efforts, regardless of criticism, to bring the country out of a global crisis as soon as possible, but in a sustainable way. So, only those three circumstances when observed can be said to have found a solution that meets one goal, which is the financial sustainability of the pension system. Please, the most important objective is the financial sustainability of the pension system and that is not disputed. What we think should be taken into account, and this is my position, and my parties and parliamentary groups, that pensions besides meeting the goal of being sustainable, I repeat, as the main objective, because it is not worth having large pensions without being able to pay off, therefore, in addition to the financial sustainability of the pension system, we believe that at the same time it must meet another objective, which is the social sustainability of that system. And in that part, that pensions are adequate, that people can survive, that they can recover some of the funds they've invested for years, of course by keeping an eye on always and now that whoever works longer has a bigger pension, one who has less to work, that has a reduction in pension. Our basic approach is that the social sustainability of the pension system has to go parallel to this. We think it's in these conditions, when there's restrictions everywhere in Europe, done, even we think correctly, that it's drawn maximum and that there's the easiest possible change. In that sense, I want to support this work, and I also want to commend the government for finally opening social dialogue with the unions, because they are social partners, because we all need to be aware, and the Government and trade unions, Serbia are necessary economic and economic reforms, they must also be monitored by social reforms, but neither of them can succeed if there are no social rights, if they are not socially just. We support this dialogue and the result of this bill is also the result of these negotiations, we ask the Government to continue the dialogue with trade unions and in all issues when it comes to social sustainability. Of course, we all know that adequate, socially sustainable pensions mean an increase in expenditure. So, bigger expenditures, that means it collects the system. On the other hand, we know that any savings that are brought down the rights. We believe, which is also done by this law, that one balance has been made precisely by these two opposing objectives, therefore, to be financially sustainable, but also to be socially sustainable. With that in mind, I want to draw attention to it, make an impression in public, and I call on the government to explain it in detail, I ask for it, many believe that the reform of the pension system means only the expenditure side and then we will be making savings, of course, under great public pressure, because there are great resources involved. Few people know how much it seems to be and what it seems to be watching the revenue side. We are all aware of this, without increasing GDP, without development, without economy, without employment, there is no greater funding. There isn't, I hope, any dilemma. The commitment of the state is also to give priority. So, for young people, the chance for both education and work, but it's also an obligation for the state to take care of old people. So we don't have a dilemma here. Please, and the payment of contributions increases the other side. Imagine that out of 200 billion, only 50 billion were charged, how much money could be set aside for other things and provide adequate pensions. So, the collection of contributions. Second, a gray economy, a job that the government must face. Third, shall we once resolve the issue of the property of the Republic Fund for PIO? Fourthly, funds from privatization of facilities built by funds from the PIO Fund, etc. So, the government is obliged to, parallel to saving, which is not controversial, at the same time working to increase revenues. In that case, we can have a balanced system, be adequate pensions and be financially sustainable. When it comes to these changes, we'll talk about them even more in detail when there's a debate in particular. I just want to point out that, when it comes to getting a pension, that the age limit does not move, it remains 60 years, or 65 years, to move the border of full-time, when it comes to women – three years and the minimum age limits for full-time men and women, which is good, gradually. That's what it's for. Please once again, let the government see if the union agreement on the part is fully respected. I think he needs to be respected. Any deal made by the government with the union must be fully respected. Short time when it comes to raising pensions, indexation. This system is not the best, it combines cost growth and GDP growth. GDP cannot be a parameter, it can be a parameter for fiscal sustainability, but not for increasing pensions. He's offered better than the existing law, and he gives more. I expect that the government will continue to monitor this and offer a solution to where pensions will follow the growth of earnings, especially the general score, the replacement of last salary and first pensions, which is very important and will continue to look for the best solutions in this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49251	It's been used for ten minutes and 45 seconds. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Ivan Andric, based on the replica, I would like to inform you that our work today will follow and follow from the gallery of the great National Assembly of Serbia citizens interested in the work of this highest legislative home, and that: Branko Rsumović, Živojin Davidović, Vladimir Djuknić, Igor Djajic, Marija Kovacevic, Željko Bojić, Darko Rogan, Vladimir Tomašević, Tatjana Pejatović, Lejla Marković, Silva Sobotić, Valentina Lukić, Ivan Popović, Relja Grujgić, Zoran Maksimović, Mila Jelenić, Olga Keser, Nada Djordjevic and Oliver Borisavljevic. Welcome to your house, to the House of the National Assembly. As promised, the word has Mr. Andric, the replica. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49252	Although not directly mentioned by our parliamentary group, it is clear that we have been thought of, since so far we are the only ones who have insisted on this reform of the pension system. What is simple, please, even though you've always been correct in the presentation so far, but to interpret what we're saying in a way that we want to present and understand. So we're not in favour of abolishing pensions or reducing pensions. Our objections are about to go to a lack of income from the pension fund. It is in this sense that we are asking the people who are leading the fund, who promised us a year ago that this fund will be reformed and that it will be financed to some extent more from its own resources. We said that this fund has so far been funded, it's being charged, which is about 43-44% of the resources allocated to the employee, the same percentage of the funds that are subsidies from the budget and only 2% of the income left. I can only repeat the question that you asked - what about the capital of that fund? What about the property of that fund? How is she used, where did she go? It's something that people, who are users of this fund, have invested in this fund for the past 30-40 years and it's impossible that it's all gone, or if it's gone, then it has to be drawn a line and said it's impossible to say it's impossible to make such a fund work in that way. Then the second pillar of the pension system will be introduced, mandatory, private pension financing or third pillar – voluntarily and then we will know where we are. All we're saying is that it's unsustainable that 20, 25, 30% of the budget is allocated from year to year to year to subsidize that fund without any movement. All that subsidy is spent on ensuring what...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49253	Thank you, Mr. Andric. The word is Mr. Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49254	At one point it seemed that not only would there not be political acuity, I welcome the absence of this passion as a concept sought by the prime minister, but that every life from this discussion would go away, but then we went back to this famous question, what are we having every year and every time it seems like a major political conflict between LDP and PUPS, and whose background is the generational gap. This is quite unfair to object to a party that insisted two and a half years ago on the concept of intergenerational agreement and intergenerational solidarity. In the meantime, it turns out that we were practically right about everything we said, even when it comes to reforming the pension system. It seemed to me, Mrs Dragutinovic, about a month or a month or a half ago, when you received an important prize, where we congratulate you on this occasion, and when you said that for these two, two and a half years in the government you understood and accepted that the budget was not just numbers, but that there were other types of calculations, primarily thinking about some kind of political compromise or political planning, that this budget would be much more political. Unfortunately, it is the least political, and much more a product of some kind of foreigners that is so characteristic of this government, or of the composition in which it works. You came in here with this ambition that this is your seventh budget, and it's my first, but you and I both know it won't be the last in 2011. You were talking about that wish or that you wanted it to be the last one, if we were talking about what anyone would like, I wish the Prime Minister didn't show up here with the idea that we'd avoided the worst, but with some idea that we'd be doing more work in 2011, not explaining how he said we'd avoided it, I'd say - we'd postpone the worst. Now I have to look back on a few things from the budget. I agree that there is not much room to comment on specific items, but there is room to comment on that escape from life. We were objected last year not only to have something against the pensioners, that we allegedly insist on reducing pensions, but also that when we talk about this problem of large subsidies for failed public enterprises, we have something against employees. And this year, an incredible situation occurred, you came out a few days ago with the claim that practically, compared to public enterprises and direct subsidies from the state would only be greater than the public company "Serb Railways" and some of the mines with underground exploitation, with an explanation that there were increased needs, i.e. an additional amount to increase employees' earnings. Yesterday, I spoke to the president of one of the unions, practically the leaders of that union project in the railways, who say that your claim is not true until the end, that in the past few days there have been several conversations or several attempts at the last meeting that was to take place yesterday or the day before neither the representatives of your ministry showed up, and that this difference from practically four or four billion to four billion in the amount of railway subsidies primarily concerns subsidies that do not concern internal restructuring of railways or increased earnings, but covering some of the expenditures that are related to losses or problems in the business of the Belgrade railway node and some other segments of the company. That at this point, it is not defined what a practical increase of 2% in the railways means. Whether or not this applies to the mass of earnings, the price of the working hour, etc. Without the idea of arbitration in this dispute, we have an announcement that Monday will be held, the 27th actually, a railway strike. Last and last year, we had situations where dissatisfied workers of social enterprises or enterprises who were not successfully privatised to take the railroads, lie on them and then try to solve this problem through some wrong social model. This year, we will probably have a situation at its very end and that the railway workers themselves are lying on those tracks, which, given the frequency of traffic and its quality, may be possible and will not do any major damage, but we would not like it to compromise this grandiose concept that is probably part of this industrial or commercial boom of Kargo 10, this concept that trains no longer stand at the borders, etc. As far as these pensions are concerned, it's kind of a matter that we have to keep coming back to, I'm not sure that the most honest concept in which you're going to charge is now there's no representative of the SPS who's been talking about it, and that you're going to basically or indirectly send a message that some parties want the pensioners to cut pensions, and immediately in the next sentence, they're going to advocate a realistic model in which pensions will monitor the real movement of earnings, which fell by 60 euros this year. I don't think that's the best concept or the best message for the pensioners. In the end, I am sorry that Mr. Peric did not speak as the first representative of the PUPS, since this would make the right sense of Mr. Colakovic's sentences from the beginning, or two sentences, when he responded to Mr. Andric, when he first said that he would practically talk about the situation in the pension and disability insurance fund, and in the second, that PUPS was not a heir to the fund. And Mr. Peric was until a few months ago the chairman of the trust board, and the staff of the party he represents today are in the fund, though code named – the Alliance of Retired Serbs. These are some of the questions we need to get an answer to. I don't know what the internal schedule is now in that parliamentary group, but these are the questions we expect from the government to answer. No one here represents the government in the right political sense when it comes to reforming the pension system. The finance minister is there as an authorised representative of the government, but the bill did not arise in the ministry, as did the strange agreement with trade unions on the delay of the 2013 reform, as we see today that some amendments also bring the Minister's concept of increasing VAT on certain products and services. From what I understand, there will be an increase in the rate of the southern fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49255	Seven minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. After that, MP Rada Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49256	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, after this attempt at generational agreement, I will continue to talk a little bit about the pension law, since my colleague Senic was talking about the budget, and there are other colleagues from my parliamentary club who will talk about some other aspects of the budget. There are a number of reasons, economic and demographic, which justify not only changing the current pension law, but also imposing a comprehensive reform of the pension system. Changes are necessary, and they should also provide for the fiscal sustainability of the system and maintenance, if not for improvement, of the living standard of current and future pensioners. There is no, or at least I don't see it, no rational alternative to reforming the pension system in Serbia. Currently, the pension fund deficit is almost 6% of GDP and is one of the largest, not only in Europe but also wider. It's huge money. This year's budget raises 230.9 billion dinars as a donation to the PIO Fund for regular pension payments. When it comes to pensions, pensioners, the PIO Fund in Serbia, cynicism and cheap demagogy and false solidarity and whatever you want. There's some concern I can't believe. We saw it all when we passed this law, that is, when creating changes and additions to this law. The fact that government and unions disagree on many things is somewhat understandable. Because as far as we can see, there's no real socio-economic dialogue. But our unions occasionally expect miracles from this government, which, on the one hand, is in commitments to the IMF, and on the other hand, more importantly, is the only government in an environment that has not reduced either wages or pensions in times of crisis. This is often lost from sight in a number of inappropriate and inappropriate criticisms at the expense of this government coming from different sides, not only of the opposition, which is expected to do so, but also of a large number of stakeholders who often ignore the general picture for the sake of achieving their own goals. It seems to us that missing opportunities here has become a way of life. Because we've missed the opportunity to at least make a fundamental reform of the pension system in these ten years, and I don't want to talk about the time before that, because there are ministers from one government who gave pensioners electricity bonuses instead of pensions. They are today and the loudest in criticism of these minimum amendments to the law. In the current course of reforms in Serbia, it is decided that the pension system relies on two components, on the ongoing financing of pensions from contributions and general taxes, that is the system "pay as you go", organised within the state fund, and that is the first pillar, and on the development of voluntary savings for age in private pension funds, that is the third pillar. The rejected idea to include, in addition to these two components in the pension system, mandatory savings in private pension funds, which is so-called. The second pillar. It has been concluded that the introduction of a second pillar in Serbia is not recommended. The analyses carried out have shown that there are still no conditions or justifications for introducing a second pillar in Serbia. Lack of conditions is seen in the underdeveloped financial market, insufficient administrative capacity for its regulation. At this point, there is no fiscal space that would allow the introduction of a second pillar, because the adoption of such a system means that some of the current workers' contributions would be shifted from the current government system to individual savings accounts of the insurance company, and that this conversion would result in a reduction of revenue that would go to the state system. Given the already existing significant deficit of the state pension system, the government cannot afford to adopt policy measures that would further increase the deficit. Since that option has been rejected so far, what is the solution and how to make it out of this system that created and created the deficit, we create a system that creates a surplus. The first thing we need to do is start with the fact that everyone in some kind of heat of political struggle is to forget, which is that this is the state of the pension system due to an inefficient economy. The need to move borders towards pension rights is seen in an unfavourable proportion of the working and maintenance population, as one pensioner is financed by only one and a half workers. In order to meet a projection that does not exceed 10% of GDP for pensions by 2015, which is currently almost 14% if they are involved in military pensions, the ratio of employees and number of pensioners needs to be changed. It is certain that the solution cannot be an increase in profit contributions, which are quite high anyway, as it would further reduce the competitiveness of the workforce. So that current and future pensioners can count on a relatively stable and relatively decent pension should start from raising the efficiency of the economy and increasing employment. According to one of the new labour research, employment in the working age of 15-64 reached a historic minimum of 2,450,000 workers, and the employment rate fell to something below 50%, which means that one of the two persons in the working age is employed. The increase in employment rates is possible only with the inflow of foreign direct investment, as well as changes in the education system that should force and educate those profiles that need economies, which can raise the efficiency of the economy and improve its growth rate. Young people should be educated to self-employed, to create new values, to engage existing funds, and thus to increase their payments to the pension fund. These young people who are now self-employed will be in 30-35 years in a situation to be users of a pension fund or funds. If the needs of the economy and the education system had been better brought together, there would not have been this many unemployed, even if not among the young and the middle generation. Instead, we're in a position for people to wait for someone to open their jobs, for someone to do their job for them. It was not even systematically worked to develop entrepreneurship, an entrepreneurial spirit, that people realize that the obligation of the state is to create a stable legal and business environment, but not to employ every working person. The state should help the old, sick and powerless, not be the chief employer. This country's intervention in the economy is timed and will only last for the duration of the crisis and its consequences. Therefore, there is no sustainable pension system without an education system that is in line with labour market needs. On the other hand, there are negative, alarming, demographic and trends and aging societies, which are not just our specificities. This is happening throughout the European continent, with the fact that the human century has been extended everywhere, even here in Serbia. In the future, there will be more and more old people without the right to retire. While the pension system currently provides 53% of the population with 65 years of age and beyond, only 34% of the working population is currently contributing, suggesting that in the future only a third of the old population will have the right to retire. That is why another aspect should be considered, which is whether the current social assistance system is adequate, i.e. whether it can provide grants for those who will make up most of the old population who will retire without access to one or any other form of state giving. Also, the private pension sector will have to develop further. As the population grows old, the state system will not be able to provide generous donations to pensioners. People who want something more than the state can offer and provide, will have to save extra. The state can help, providing instruments for such savings, as it has done in the case of private pension systems, as well as through regulation and monitoring and savings, to improve its security. These changes to the laws we're talking about today are neither ambitious nor what they should be, but they're a step in the right direction. It is clear that in Serbia, the theme of pensions is highly politically attractive and often used, since pensioners represent a large part of the electoral body, therefore there is no excessive enthusiasm for some radical moves in this area. These amendments to the law are more painless and less restrictive, not only compared to proposals made by the International Monetary Fund, but also from other countries in the region that have resorted to and reduced pensions and raising the age line somewhere even to 67 years. With us, the age limit will increase gradually in 2011 to 2023, and the year of the women's insurance internship, as far as I hear, from 2013 to 2019. Pensions will be coordinated in a manner consistent with public sector earnings in 2011 and 2012, which will allow pensions to monitor profit growth. So for both employees and pensioners, recovery of the economy is crucial, increase in investment, increase in employment. They repeat that contributions should not be increased but should improve their collection. The G17 Plus Parliament Club will support these amendments to the Law in the hope that these changes will succeed, because if this doesn't happen, the next changes will have to be much more radical than these.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49257	Eleven minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Radet Obradovic, on the basis of Article 90(2), and given the question from various parliamentary groups about progress and work, today and in the days to come, I simply want to give a notice. So we've already said that today we're going to be working until the end of the point that is under way, a joint principled search on agenda points that are under discussion. Tomorrow at 10.00 we will continue and finish work on the remaining points of the agenda, one of which is the shortened procedure, and the rest are of course the individual points of the agenda. On Monday, 10:00 p.m., we'll start work by searching the details of the amendments to the draft laws that we completed yesterday's joint principle search. When we have finished this debate, we will begin the search in particular on the amendments to the agenda points currently under review and on Tuesday we will end the search by amendments, i.e. the details of the agenda points from our current debate on the common principle search. With regard to the number of amendments, there are 33 amendments to the laws on the first joint principled search, up to about 250 amendments. I apologize that we do not know the exact number, in fact the amendments are still under review and there is a possibility that committees may submit amendments between the end in principle and the beginning of the debate in particular. I'll also inform you that today we're on direct television broadcast until 20.35 p.m., and then we're on hold. I can only give you an estimate with an advance apology, if I misjudge, that our work today could be completed for about 22 hours with all the replicas and extensions. Of course, longer. We'll do as much as it takes to make things clear. The word is by MP Rade Obradovic, followed by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm sorry to keep you waiting. I just thought it was important for the MPs to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49258	This was important information. Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we have a joint debate on six points of the agenda, one of them is the budget. The budget, it should be pointed out, is a specific law for the simple reason that budgets cannot determine or deny existing obligations, but rather the budget of a unit of commitments defined by a number of laws that are in force. The budget needs to answer the question of what kind of year we're going to be, what are our next perspectives? What did you tell us last year? There was Mr. Cvetkovic, but he left very quickly. We can see from the budget that you predicted that inflation would be slightly lower than 6% and that you expect growth from a 3% social product, you expect an increase in employment. You were modest in the draft budget. The Prime Minister said we are expected to have economic recovery, accelerated savings development, major plans, reforms, there will be no layoffs, there will be no improvisation, a new model of growth and much more, in those two minutes as he spoke. What I'm asking you is how are you going to do it? We in this document, no matter what he has a thousand and some sides, just a budget without these accompanying laws, in these 1,200 pages there's not a single letter on how we're going to do it. You didn't tell us what instruments, what projects do you mean to achieve all these goals? In this set of accompanying laws, these are, I must remind you, in all democratic societies, the most important laws. It's tax laws. There are four tax laws here. Among other things, you're changing the Fiscal Responsibility Act. You haven't given us an answer, what happened in the last 60 days, in the last two months. The law was passed on October 12th in this congregation. It's been two months, you're essentially changing that law. The fact that these are minor changes, as you call them, is not true. You're changing the way a million and 600,000 people should receive pensions. If that's a minor change for you, I have nothing to add. But what are the circumstances that you didn't know back then, and today you know? You yourself said the problem was already in June, slower income growth, sharpened during the summer and autumn. How could you suggest such a law and defend it as ideal on October 12th, when adopted, if that is not the case? By the way, why did you break that member? Why didn't you propose a fiscal council, your proposal for a member of the fiscal council? Your deadline was 10 days ago. It's at least some thing you could have done, if you weren't otherwise, to fulfill. You had a deadline of December 12th, and you didn't meet it either. You didn't tell us what the basics were and how we got into 2011. Inflation is one of the largest 11%. The National Bank's plan has been breached, everything you've convinced us here for a year has been breached. Additional employment drop of 4%. 4% less people work at the end of this year than they did at the beginning. You've increased public debt by two billion euros this year. The course has gone 11% in the first ten months, and the drop in foreign reserves is 2.4 billion euros spent in defence of the course and we haven't defended it. A billion euros more than was planned a year ago was spent defending the course. You haven't achieved anything. Only Bosnia and Herzegovina has a worse credit rating than Serbia in all of Europe. So there's only one country behind us on the credit rating. If something is a reflection of trust in the state, if something is a reflection of trust in what the state is doing, then it's a credit rating. Our country is the last in all of Europe. These are the starting points for 2011. You didn't tell us any possible risks that awaited us in 2011. I assume you have seen that all analysts, including the IMF and the World Bank, have made 2011 forecasts worse for the European Union countries and for the countries of the environment. Greece seems to have adopted the budget yesterday. You've seen how much trouble Greece has. You've seen the trouble Ireland has. What problems they expect in Portugal and Spain. Who are we going to export our goods to, if the environment is in trouble, if Europe is in trouble, and we expect that exports will be our way out of this situation? Who are we going to export to? The drop in investment this year is drastic. What is the new model of growth, how is it based on growth in investment and export growth? We don't have any investments, we don't have anyone to export to. You act like Serbia is a desert island. Mrs Dragutinovic, Serbia is not a desert island. When a country that is democratic and co-operates with other countries, then what is good comes to you, but also what is bad. What are the main characteristics of the budget that we have today? That's three things: arrogance, lack of politics and fear. Yeah, that's fear. A set of laws we're discussing today characterizes fear above all. You put together a budget, four important tax laws, and you put the PIO Act together to discuss them at the same time. He can do it according to the Rules of Procedure, he can do it all by the Rules of Procedure. How will people live in Serbia? We don't need to talk about the PIO Act, it's for the best. Is that gonna fix the pensioner's condition? I'm sure he won't. Why arrogance? You're breaking the laws at every turn. It's been broken in the budget. Who knows how many laws. What, change the Law on financing local self-government by reducing transfers, and then you say - we are for decentralisation. decentralisation is not about you deciding, but giving them money so let them decide and let them choose priorities. You're saying the budget's late because the coalition partners have agreed. What is this excuse for a budget delay? That's what you said - the battle over priorities in the coalition. What priorities? That's proof you don't have any politics. If you're saying that everyone had some demands, so you've been harmonising it, I guess there's politics first, so on the basis of that policy, those demands are defined, and there's an inconceivable process. Your only priority is how to fill the budget and how to finance the deficit. Apparently, that model you had with the state records failed. Look at what's going on with the euro course, he's made the NBS information that they're going to broadcast foreign bonds. In seven days, he went down three dinars, and now he's coming back three dinars, because the banks were expecting bonds to be broadcast. These are information coming from state authorities and this is the responsibility of the state authorities and the most responsible people in the country for all the information and all the statements they make. No one in this country has any responsibility for anything. Serbia is in debt. A few days ago, you gave information that you were broadcasting bonds with a two-year maturity at 14.9% interest rate. Just to remind you, Bulgaria emits bonds at two-and-a-half years of maturity and interest rates of 3.4% and ten years at an interest rate of 6%. So more than twice as much. It's the one Bulgaria has a billion problems. Interest rates are three, four times less than in Serbia. You are priorities of buildings, tourism, youth and demographics. These problems are being solved, these priorities are being defined by the fall in realisation in the building almost 20% last year, the decline in tourism is 10%. Although there is a 10% decline in tourism, you raise VAT to tourist services. It's a priority. Priority is education and youth, by raising taxes on computers. Priority is demographics, by raising taxes on bananas and oranges. It's a priority. Is it possible, we've received information that you'll give up taxes on computers and hotel services? Is there any serious analysis behind any proposal that comes to us here? Anyway, today can, so if the public jumps and gets up against it, then tomorrow we'll give up. Is it possible for such serious things to be defined in such a way? Last year you picked up your cell phone taxes, you put them down this year. That is why there is no milk in Serbia, because politics in all areas is changing from month to month. People meet me on the street and say – ask the government not to be their priority. Anything they choose to be a priority, it goes to waste. Just tell them we're not their priority. As for the budget, completely change the structure – VAT and excise. The VAT was a significant income, now excise duties are taking over the primate from VAT. Accize is a one-time tax. In what serious country are excises a key priority? What's going on with the search? What happens to the excise goods when you raise their prices? Is that the opening of the road again for smuggling from those movies that we watch on TV, what they're called – insiders and the rest, about the smuggling of cigarettes. You say yourself that you can't pay taxes or contributions, that you don't have a built structure for all of it. The salaries of employees in this budget rise by 7.3%. Interests are rising by 50%. That's the price of paying the deficit, last year at 30 this year with 45 billion. Only on domestic loans from 11 billion to 24 billion. It's huge money, far bigger than anything we've talked about here. Did you see the guarantees activated significantly increased? Those loans that come here all the time, which you guarantee us won't have a price, then it turns out that those who take them can't get them back. Did you notice that you have 400, 600 prizes and bonuses? That item grows six times this year. If it's a crisis, then it's a crisis for everyone, and for these unemployed, for the pensioners, and for everyone. I guess we don't need to reward ourselves, reward workers in the state administration. That item grows six times. Penalties and penalties rise 35%. Wait, who's gonna answer if the state authorities don't do their job well? I guess someone needs to answer, and we don't raise it, we pay out of the budget, and we pay no one. The PIO Act, who wrote that law? This is the only law, Mrs. Comic has been sitting here for a very long time, and I think this is the only law that doesn't say who's the government's authorized representative. It could be Mr. Krkobic. Is it perhaps Mr Ljajic, who is a trustee of the Ministry of Labour? There's no authorized representative here. This morning we received a memo saying it was Minister Diana Dragutinovic. The Minister didn't say a letter about pensions. I'm sorry, she said. Less changes to the Budgetary System Act. Pensioners are less changes for them. Getting less pensions is less change. We don't care about that. This law abolishes all rights to pensioners. There are some things that will fix them. There's no Mr. Shammy to calculate how many 1% of it's almost nothing. Since these pensions are insignificant, they grow by 1%. Let me see how much 1% is on such a small pension. Is this a way to solve problems – a million and 620 thousand people are getting a pension? In the Serbian Parliament, the government did not say a word about changing. Of course, there are serious problems in this system – demographics, declines in employment, non-payment of contributions. All those problems that really exist. An increase in pensioners, in the last year, their pension has increased by 1.6%. Is this the way, by keeping the pensioner's problem quiet, by solving the problem, or are we just going to delay the problem by a year or two? What's the idea, a long-term government idea? It was signed in the IMF Memorandum, which is that pensions have to go down to 10% of GDP. If that were today, pensions would be 30% less than they are today. Yeah, that's it. Just look at the budget. It says here that pensions will grow relative to inflation and will grow instead of April, even that has been moved, so for half of GDP growth to rise in October. How is inflation possible, then, to be 5.8%, to pay in the state administration, the salary mass rises by almost 8%, and the PIO budget increases only by 4.8%? How is that possible, or is there going to be a new amendment to the law where we can determine all this? And not to say that we all know that when you go to the store, you see that inflation is far greater than that of the official 10-11%. The GDP is determined by the government, inflation is again determined by the government. We index pensions according to inflation, and the pension budget can't even pay for the inflation that's scheduled. It says in these laws – 493 billion is now, for 2011 is 470, 4.8%. So let's tell the truth. We will not solve any problems in Serbia until we openly state what the problem is and propose a solution. Close your eyes doesn't solve any problems at all, so before pensions are even 60% today. That's why that clause was lifted. Pensions are 58% of the average salary. It's a reality. Close your eyes will only create new problems. What are we waiting for in 2011? New employee drop, at least 3-4%. The course, of course, is growing. Inflation will be far greater than planned. The losses in the economy are growing. Public debt is growing. That's what's waiting for us with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49259	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 13 minutes and 30 seconds. National MP Đuro Peric wants a replica. Just sign in, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49260	I'd like to answer to Mr. Obradovic. I think that he has made this very unargumented statement of his data about the fact that this bill means nothing, even if it brings the pensioners even more into a difficult position. I think it's completely unfounded and it's not even true all these numbers are spoken of. The current ratio of the average pension to the average is 63%, in general. Otherwise, if pensions are taken from employees and self-employed pensions, then this is the next – pensions employed on average are 75% compared to earnings, and pensions on their own are 70%. This is the only problem pensions for farmers. Therefore, this phasing out of pensioners' problems through this law should not be underestimated, whether it is 1%, 2%, etc., all that means for that people who are with the lowest pensions that are cumulatively going to start out of this, better than to lose what we've had so far, and these are frozen pensions in relation to all this is happening in life, the increase in these prices and the rest, and we have these remarks on those rates that have been made and we're going to say that in the end. I don't think it's necessary to underestimate all the proposals they've made in such a way. There are really very good proposals in the future that will help to overcome at least some of these issues as they are already mentioned, and we will say a little bit more about this later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49261	Thank you. National MP Radojko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49262	I fully welcome, Mrs. Komic, your approach. I didn't mention Mr. Peric's name or party or anything, and he got a line. I fully support this democratic approach to holding a session. All that stuff I said, it's official data. This is a edition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Development Institute, Belgrade, November 2010. This looks like an official document to me. This is being betrayed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Peric, it would be nice if you took a look at this before the debate, if you weren't talking in the end. It wouldn't be bad for you to read some wrong data, page five, paragraph five, average pension, chapter -- the pensioner's ratio and the number of employees is 1.1:1, with the average pension in Serbia accounting for 58%. The problem is that if you count this official data of the PIO Fund, if you count only employees and agricultural pensioners and self-sufficients, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and if you count it that way, then that's another thing. As for freezing, that's what I'm talking about, that's what you did, that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia did in 2009 and 2010. I agree that 1% is better than nothing, that's what I was talking about, but I didn't think of it, that's what this government came up with. The second thing, look at these items, so tell me which of these members goes in favor of the pensioners, who goes against or who reduces their rights, and then we'll talk to each other in an argument. The fact that we're counting on something, that's what the finance minister does. The public debt is so great, then the DRI and the National Bank add together that it is something else, and he says, "That doesn't count." Okay, that doesn't count. Here, 200,000, how many agricultural pensioners there are, they don't count for you, so these independents, they don't count for anything. I guess some pensioners, those one promo who have a pension of 100,000 dinars, don't even think about these problems we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49263	National MP Đuro Peric, has the right to replication. Before I speak to you, I asked the Deputy Secretary-General to give me a stenogram of your discussion and I will apologize if not, but in a free quote I think you said in the first sentence that it was the Law on PIO to speak to Đuro Peric, or you quoted the minister. If I heard wrong, I apologize. The circle of replicas then goes based on my wrong impression. We'll check the stenogram. MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49264	I own the real original document of the PIO Fund about all that data and I didn't say anything about it. It's all accurate data, and what I've been up to is 63% and the ratio of these pensions to the Fund of Employees, the Fund of Independents and nothing I underestimated the Agricultural Fund, but I said that it's one of the biggest problems and that it's actually the one that creates these problems on average, when we talk about averages, because it's one average of about eight thousand and some dinars. So, anything else to join that and then give another picture. I didn't mean to say that, but this bill also proposes certain measures for that part of the pension population. First they go to nine thousand, based on, and then they line up with everything else, as foreseen by the law. In this sense, then, the exact figures should be spoken. I'm not saying that you haven't read any data from some magazine, but this is what we've been asking officially for from the PIO Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49265	National MP Radojko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49266	End of line, I won't answer again. I'm glad you accepted and confessed to what I said. So, as far as pensioners who are employed, this is now data only for the PIO Fund, the average pension is 63% for October of the month. As far as self-employed activity is concerned, the average pension is 62%. As far as pensioners are concerned, the average pension is 24%. One has 1,340,763 in October, it has 57,570 in October and has 222,850 in October. I guess for us, all pensioners are retired. When all of this is taken, when the line is drawn, the total pensioner, I was just talking about it – 1.621.183, with an average pension of 58% of the average profit. As far as the DSS is concerned, all pensioners are the same for us. We will never separate them and fight for their rights until the last.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49267	MP Velimir Ilic has been reported. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49268	Madam Chairman, I think you have injured the Rules of Procedure today, article 107 - the dignity of the Members of Parliament. We today feel, especially the opposition MPs, especially New Serbia's MPs, injured. Why? You decided today to discuss six laws in one day. Let's take a Frenchman who's been arguing for a month. (President: National MP, that decision happened yesterday, not today, six laws in one day. You can only tell the breach of the Rules of Procedure about an event that happened just before you apply for a word at the National Assembly session. Please make your wish to explain that the Rules of Procedure have been violated in accordance with the provisions of Article 103.) Please, Madam Chairman, never in the history of this House has the budget been adopted in one day, in principle. In one serious state to adopt a budget in one day and six laws that monitor the budget, that's terrible. One France has been discussing the pension insurance law for months. Please, please, change the law on property tax, it's for a special debate, where we should get involved here. To discuss 1,000 pages of budget in one day, in one debate and end it in the day, it is nowhere in the world. It shows one unseriousness and I as a folk MP feel miserable and miserable when about such problems that will share the fate of a country in the coming year you, as our people say, scrabble during the afternoon and the story is over, we go home and then we praise the bosses, here, we managed to adopt the budget for the first time in the history of this Parliament, in one day, the principle debate and six more of these laws. Therefore, may it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49269	The MP, except that you did not mention the violation that took place today, which is the obligation under Article 103 of your information for the purposes of the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia is always adopted with the accompanying laws concerning plans, giving consent to the financial plans of the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance and National Employment Service and some of the fiscal laws from year to year different. So that's what happens every time we adopt the budget, as much as I agree that the budget was supposed to be in the Assembly on November 1st as much as it agreed to respect the law. Another amendment is the total number of amendments submitted, a total of 382 amendments have been tabled to all drafts of the law, that is to say, other than I repeat, amendments which may be submitted by the committee responsible between the end of the debate in principle and the beginning of the debate in particular. National MP Janko Veselinovic has a word after him, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49270	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about my position on this year's budget, I can't look back on the recent presentation of fellow MPs from the opposition and a little earlier presentation of colleagues who sometimes look very disastrous. It simply doesn't want reality to be seen, reality can only be seen from that dark side as if this bill on budget and other laws and general data on the economic situation in the country were read in the previous longest and darkest night without light. If that were not the case, they would note that the Republic of Serbia is a country that has been growing by close to 2% this year, that exports have been significantly increased, and that there are other parameters that can be encouraging in a rather difficult year for most countries' economies. We should also say that it is that this budget is thrifty, for 2011, but it should be acknowledged that we are one of the few countries in the environment, which in the following year predicted an increase in wages, an increase in pensions, it may be little and less than what we would like, but it is an increase. I will remind you that many countries in the environment but also EU countries come in next year with a reduction in wages, with pension cuts, a freezing of pensions while we can still say that we have acted responsibly this year, that the government has acted responsibly and that in the coming year we will enter with a slight wage growth, with a slight pension growth. And taking care of pensioners in this way, here and I don't even think about LDP, but of some other parties, which in some way don't accept this budget, they don't seem to care enough about our oldest citizens who will still receive a slightly bigger check next year. The budget for 2011, is thrifty, and the government has rightly decided to continue saving from this year, as the minister said, is about stabilising public expenditures, i.e. the goal of making this budget socially responsible, i.e. to achieve social cohesion. We know that this is always not easy, especially in a situation where the money in the budget is insufficient, and when we have a lot of demands primarily of social categories, but this budget also offers greater investment for social issues. On the other hand, this budget, and I wanted to talk about it first, has increased significant investment in science and technological development. The combination of a thrifty budget and investment in science and technological development has been checked out to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, competitiveness of Serbia's economy and thus countries in general. It is known that Serbia has significant potential in scientific personnel, especially in scientific youth, and they need perspective in Serbia. So help to stay in this country and create in this country. They need us to create conditions to create in our colleges, our institutes, but I'd say primarily in the economy it's private capital or state property. It is clear that we will only do so if we invest more resources in science. Compared to 2010, I would like to point out in particular that the increase in the allocation of science in this budget is 23%, so 23%. No one from the opposition when he spoke on this subject, even though we voted unanimously on the Committee on Science and the position and opposition for this budget and accepted this fact, has pointed out that there will be 23% more investment in science in this budget. The Ministry of Science and Technological Development's budget will be 11 billion and 148 million in 2011, which is 2.1 billion more compared to the previous year. That's 23% increase. Investments in science and technological development thus increases overall in GDP from 0.29 to 0.33, but that is only if we look at budget investment, i.e. funds allocated in the budget. Realistically, investment in science, in the coming period, will be significantly higher, even by 110%. The funds will be invested from the funds that we will withdraw from the EU funds, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe Development Bank, so that 19.1 billion will be invested in science compared to this year, slightly less than nine billion, so a ten billion increase. When we add all of this together, it's going to be in the GDP, from the current 0.29% to 0.5%. We do not include the investment of the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development and Investments which provide private businesses in science. This is important news and certainly good news for Serbia. I want to point out, and unless the opposition MPs want to accept it, that's a fact that can be seen from this budget. The ultimate goal is 1% of GDP, when it comes to investing in science, but this is a very sure goal to be pursued and it is certainly important when in this year which is a difficult year and next year which will not be much less difficult, investment in science is so increased. That's why DS MPs will vote for this budget. I would like to remind myself that the Ministry of Science and Technological Development in 2010 issued a public call for a basic research programme in the field of technological development, a programme for co-financing of interdisciplinary research and a programme for the provision and maintenance of scientific and research equipment and space and research work in the cycle from 2011 to 2014. The new cycle of research begins from 1 January 2011. What is very important in the reported projects to be funded is the recognizable interest of young scientists to participate in these projects. 4.200 researchers reported more than the current number of researchers working on the country's scientific projects, and of which what encourages them is 1,715 young researchers, researchers up to 35 years of age who would be involved in these projects, provide their contribution to the realisation of these projects, but also contribute to these young people staying in Serbia and creating in our country. From this budget that I have already highlighted, which is valuable, funds will also be allocated to fund scholarships, primarily to PhD students for a total of 679 PhDs. However, major investments in scientific infrastructure are due to start next year. From this money I mentioned, from budget sources, the EU source will provide money for old projects that have been waiting for years, and some ten years, to start their realization, such as the Botanical Garden, the construction of a new building of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, which will be located at the site of the bankrupt factory "Lola", the possibility of building on the Kosutnjak camp to protect the environment, the possibility of completing the building of the New Sad recession, to build a final IT incubator in Nis, to create a European rank centre in the area of stem cells in Kragujevac, etc. These funds provide a certain percentage and for the construction of about a thousand non-commercial apartments for young scientists and their construction should begin next year. I've already pointed out of these funds provided significant amounts for the purchase of scientific equipment. It is not important to point out that we have finally taken care of the waste at the Vinch Institute and that now the people of that institute, the respected institute, are dealing with science in the next period, and that they do not care about how they will take care of this waste that has already been being lagated there for years, or 50 years. Because of all this, because of the fact that, in the period of the global economic crisis, and the period of crisis that is likely to continue in the coming period, we have allocated significant resources for science, I will support this budget. The other MPs of the Democratic Party will certainly do so, because, of course, it is very important that the future of Serbia, or young people in Serbia, is certain, because the future of these people is our first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49271	It was used 11 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. The basis for a replica in mentioning a political party can only have an authorised representative or president of a parliamentary group, and since no party, or LDP parliamentary group, is mentioned in a negative context... The basis for the replica in the event of a political party being mentioned has either the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. All right, MP Judita Popovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49272	Thank you, Madam Vice President. With the LDP being wrongly imputed again that it is against pensioners, that is, the LDP budget has criticised in the retirement domain. I have to underline and point out again, LDP is absolutely supporting the pensioners and really doesn't think pensioners should be reduced by their monthly pension incomes. However, the LDP criticised the allocations envisioned by the draft pension budget of 20% of the budget. This actually provides support to this concept of public consumption. Therefore, public spending remains dominant in Serbia, and this public spending if it continues at this rate, which is growing over the past period, can only lead to a more serious crisis than the one we are currently in. So, we're in favour and we're in favour of reforming the pension system. We are in favour of reforming the pension fund, and we have already made arguments as to why we are in favour of all these reforms. The delay in these reforms will only deepen the problems that arise just about these pensions. I would also underline the fact that 3.6% of this budget is planned for agrarian and 20% for pensions. If it's not public spending, then we really don't know what we're talking about today. Therefore, once again, LDP is very supportive of pensioners, but the LDP has proposed a reform that is really needed both by the pension system and the pension fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49273	National MP Janko Veselinović, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49274	I'm just checking in to explain. I only mentioned LDP in the sense that I said this wasn't about LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49275	I know that, MP, but in the name of the atmosphere. 38/2 MO/MJ National MP Judita Popovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49276	If I misunderstood you, then I apologize, but it's not bad to point out once again our reform potentials and recommendations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49277	National MP Veroljub Arsic has a word, followed by a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49278	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before I begin my presentation, I would have to give one apology to the citizens of Serbia, because in my presentation today, I will not be able to talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on the Use, Bearing and Wearing of Goods, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises. The reason is not that the laws are good or that I have nothing to say about them, on the contrary, I would have had a lot to say about every law, but for the reason that the debate of these laws with the 2011 Budget Law is united, on the proposal of the MP who is now chairing this session, so I must apologize to the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the budget, Madam Minister, I will not, as usual, enter into details and figures, so much has been said about it that I would just repeat some discussions. It is that the budget has 1,200 pages, but it is nothing new, at least nothing important new. So, as soon as you open your eyes and you see that there is a certain progression when it comes to borrowing. As soon as it opens, there is progress when it comes to state administration. So I'm not going to mention the names of some offices, government offices, state agencies, etc. It's not worth talking to you about. I'm only going to take one example, and that's the Civil Society Co-operation Office. Here's some new era of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't matter what she spends only four million dinars, it doesn't matter that it's one or two thugs working in that office to kidnap four million dinars of Serbian citizens, and this isn't one shame, but four million times the shame that you have with state money. It's not worth talking about either the PIO fund, whether it's real or not, whether it's supposed to be funded from the budget or not. The kind of budget, the kind of economy we're in, the kind of inflows we're in, that's obvious to have to. But what's pretty funny and pathetic is that some of my fellow MPs are saying that the reason for funding a pension fund is that they have some debts from the past, so they have to pay debts from the past and can't operate without deficits. Gentlemen, for a decade you've been in power, ten years, you have no more burdens of the past, you're now picking up the results of your work through various DOS mutations, nothing else. Because if the way you came to the hair, today in Serbia you should be running both honey and milk. Our situation is quite different, quite harsh and quite realistic, so that we with this kind of economy cannot finance either the budget, the various offices, the various administrations, and the various projects. Speaking of projects, someone mentioned "Fiat", an epochal discovery costing the state hundreds of billions of euros. Apparently, it'll produce 200,000 cars. I'm asking when? Speaking of projects, someone mentions "Fiat." An epochal discovery. It cost the state hundreds of billions of euros. Apparently, it'll produce 200,000 cars. When? When will the two billion euros the Fiat is due to pay arrive? When are we gonna start producing those 200,000 cars, provided the state doesn't subsidize again the cars produced by Fiat? So, Serbia's problems are not only caused by the economic crisis, the past's debts, but by the whole situation that is in government both in the economy and in society. Why did I mention "Fiat"? Because the state doesn't have a strategy to develop its economy. We don't even have a strategy to develop. Now you're boasting about some kind of export increase. I'd like to know which branch of the economy has increased exports? Is it agriculture, by any chance? Or maybe it's "Fiat"? And to ask a question -- would you hire more people with 450 or 500 million euros, how much have you invested in Fiat so far, if you had invested in another branch? I claim you would. When you help to open up some agricultural and food plant, you hire not only workers who work in that plant, but also farmers and cattle and vegetables. You're running a whole chain. And with the Fiat, only 2,000 people. And the worst part is, the profit and profit of this "Fiyat" will not be left to the state. Repromatter? The question is how much will be produced here. When this country finally determines a strategy, when you start hiring people, but not in the administration and not in the imaginary offices of co-operation with civil society, we can talk about how we're going to cut our donations to PIO funds because they won't need it. Then we can say that we no longer have 30% of the working population that is in employment. But for ten years, the percentage of the working-age population has been reduced. The number of unemployed is increasing. The number of pensioners is increasing. The government's debts are increasing. One more question I'd like to ask - who's gonna pay those debts back? Do we have the strength to repay those debts? We are now in debt with the IMF, with European banks, etc. They'll come one day when they'll have to return those loans. Don't hide behind the fact that our deficit is only 4.1% gross income. He's constantly increasing. Look at how much guarantee and counter-guarantee we're going to give in 2011 based on your plan and program, based on your reports. Madam Minister, I'd like you to answer my parliamentary question after almost two months when it comes to the export of money from the state without any sign of importing goods and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49279	Seven minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. This concludes this part of our work. I'm setting a break. We'll continue the work at 1800 hours. It is now a meeting of the National Assembly in Hall and I ask all members of the college to be in the hall by the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. So, vice presidents and members of the parliamentary groups – Hall I. Thank you. We'll continue the work at 1800 hours. The first registered speaker will be MP Milan Nikolic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group. After him, MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49281	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, Presidents and the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, must be acknowledged that it was not easy to draft the 2011 budget, because budget authors have found themselves under a lot of dilemmas and challenges, as budget policy has had to meet many of the increased needs of budgetary users, to ensure an increase in the salaries of public services and pensioners, to ensure the social care of a large number of Serbian residents, slow down borrowing and thus provide a development component to increase the employment rate. To remind around 700,000 Serbian workers of looking for a job and at the same time monetary policy is amortizing the rise in agricultural and other product prices that would stop the monster of inflation, which could destroy all the results that we have done in 2010. We are a poor country, and if we want to, even if we want to hire such modest capacities, we have to export, and in order to achieve that, we have to secure a competitive position in the world's markets, which means that we produce goods that these markets will accept in terms of quality, respect for design and most of the price problem. This is the country's crucial need, but the huge indifference of almost all economic operators is unable to secure a production cycle and there is a real risk of paralyzing the achievement of possible exports. The monetary policy rightly advocates a high reference interest rate, but the question is, will the economy be able to bear such a high capital price while fulfilling the mortgage requirement, given that, through so far, many economic operators, almost total assets are mortgaged. The funds must be made eligible for the needs, first of all, of exporters and investors, in order to be able to achieve the budgetary objectives set, and the creator of the 2011 budget had in mind the following fact: the growth of the economy's recovery in 2010 with increased exports thanks to economic incentives, particularly in the part of the subsidisation of liquidity credit and investment in investment. Such measures of economic policy have seen an increase in social product and exports, a reduced foreign trade deficit, a rise in production tax, especially in the processing industry, and there is a very small increase in profits. However, these results have been significantly reduced in recent months 2010, and negative effects have been seen through increased inflation growth and inflation growth is expected to be 10.6% by the end of the year, privatisation revenues have been reduced and in particular, a drastic decline in net foreign investment inflow. In 10 months, they achieved slightly less than 600m euros, and the average number of legal persons employed fell by 3%. However, our macro-economic policy and its realisation provided better results than the closer environment, as they estimated at the end of the year that the growth of the social product will be achieved by 1.5%, the export of goods with a respectable 20.4% and productivity will increase by 5%. The results achieved in countries with which Serbia is most co-operated and the world's largest countries such as the EU and America show a slight recovery of the economy and a gradual exit from the crisis, and these are the basis for setting Serbia's economic policy targets for 2011 and I find them quite ambitious. Growth in GDP of 3%, twice as much as this year, export growth by 14.2% and further productivity growth of 3%, with the task of doing everything to increase investment and job creation. In this respect, the macro-economic policy is concentrated on two pillars, maintaining macro-economic and fiscal stability, maintaining monetary stability with a priority objective, ensuring sustainable economic growth and developing a competitive economy, increasing employment and regional uniform development. Budget revenue growth of 9.8% has been estimated and is realistic, given what the laws on increasing income from profit taxes, increased VAT rates and excise duties are taking into account. Of course, the projected amounts must be realised, expenditures must not be made, in order to maintain the rate of the projected deficit of 4.1% or just over 120 billion. It is evident through the analysis of budgetary expenditures and expenditures, that there has been a certain increase and separation for local self-government, especially since the Law on property tax is increasing, i.e. improving the position of local self-government, increased expenditure on social giving, there has been an increase in expenditure on the good part of the budget, and in this distribution, most of the budget users are unhappy, which means that the budget is restrictive. This is actually a sign that the budget is facing reality and that it can only be spent what and how much real income coverage there is, that it is given in some way a guarantee, that some set macro-economic objectives, that it will also be achieved in a year that will be very difficult. What is particularly concerned is that the estimated amount of three billion dinars of economic subsidies, the same as during 2010, is extremely small, which means that further business in the economy will be burdened by the inequity and high debt costs of the Commercial banks, whether it is a process of production or investment. Another serious problem is the symbolic inflow of foreign investment, and the first task is that we must employ Serbia. An increase in the number of employees will certainly increase and exports will be provided with funds and full implementation of the macro-economic objectives set. That is why it is necessary to take further stimulating measures to attract foreign investment, as the fact that it invests much more in countries in the environment than Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49282	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's how seriously the Government has approached the Bill on Amendments and Amendments of the Law on PIO, perhaps in the best way it was shown in that opening address, that there was no question about this subject, so I thought maybe this bill was withdrawn from the agenda. Obviously not, and it might be better if it were, so I'm going to devote these 12 minutes more to this problem than the finance minister did. Pensioners are a group whose support is always accounted for before some elections, without doing anything before and after the government has won, to make their position easier. This time, it seems to me, not only that there is no relief, but on the contrary. Therefore, it is evident that the existing pension system in Serbia has been seriously shaken for at least two reasons, an ageing population, i.e. an increase in population participation older than 65 years in the total population and a reduction in the number of newborns. As a result of these demographic tendencies, there is a great burden on those who are still employed today and who, truth to will from day to day, are getting less and less with that number of pensioners. This includes increasing pension funds, which also increases the burden of employees. So, this is the kind of system that has suffered or experienced four attempts at reform so far, and there are a number of sequences. So how to finance these increased pensions as a consequence of the ageing population. Then, what is perhaps the most serious problem, which is – depending on the government, since the pension deficit has always been financed from the budget, high costs, since the contributions are not invested, the large amount of income is lost, the risk of avoiding payment of contributions, unfairly distributed pensions, employees today pay more contributions than they will receive pensions, etc., etc. These are all reasons that point to the necessity of one essential and radical reform of the pension system. It is even aware of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and then, in favour of all of this, we have something called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, which is absolutely unacceptable for us in the SRS. It's particularly interesting, I'm not going to say hypocritically, what the promoter sees and locates the underlying causes of this situation, and above all this extremely unfavourable general economic situation in the country, non-payment of contributions, growth of unemployment, etc. The only question is not asked, or no answer is given to who is responsible for all of this. What the SRS thinks is that pension reform cannot possibly be a single process or an isolated reform, but it must really be in the context of a comprehensive economic reform and therefore, in our opinion, it involves, above all, macroeconomic stability in the market environment, which means stable currency and low inflation, then the necessity of appropriate tax incentives, etc. Some of the solutions are the exemption from the value tax, the release of part of the tax when reinvesting profits, the special relief for institutional investors in the longer term, the deregulation of the capital market, the protection of property rights, protection of investors and one of the inevitable factors is certainly privatisation. What we insist on is that successful pension reform should move towards some kind of system based primarily on savings, investment, private capital market and transition to that, so to speak, an individual pension scheme, which is one of the most complex and complex parts of the reform programme. When I mentioned just before we tried the reforms we had, I will only include this past decade, in 2002, when the introduction of income and the cost of life as the parameters for harmonising pensions, then in 2003 the reform covered the method of personal point, meaning, increasing the importance of the amount of contributions paid, at least that's what they said, in 2005, the age limit rose for men to 65 years of life and for women to 60 years of life, etc. Again, we've had some explanations like these in previous attempts at reform, and that's when we explain the reasons for passing one of these laws. I think it would have been better and much better if we had in mind when it really came to order, because what is now in front of us doesn't seem to be any reform of the pension-inhabitation system, I'm just going to remind the public of some of the experiences and results that are present in the world, which are something that about 160 countries in the world have this system, so, different ways or modes of the so-called. Chilean model, where each employee has his own individual account to which a pension contribution is paid. The account is located in a private pension fund managed by professional management, and that paid money on the financial market and on the capital market is eventually increased, and when an employee retires, the amount in his account is greater than the amount paid through the contribution to the amount of the pension fund belonging to that employee. One of these solutions is that the rest is in the pension account, after the death of the insurance company, the property its successors possess. Most of the countries in the world have already entered different modes of applying the idea created by this so-called. Chilean model. So, if we were to look at pension reforms in this context, these private pension funds, or on the market so based, could the question be raised whether all this would affect economic growth? Because the justification for every reform is that it will affect economic growth. What we also need to know is that there is a mechanism to transfer the impact of private pension funds on this already mentioned economic growth. We in the SRS believe that such funds are the generator of economic growth and development, and that the mechanism through which all this can be done is the capital market. What happens today to Serbia and the system we have? It happens that more than a million and 600,000 pensioners, thanks to all these reforms so far, and obviously this one, and especially the treatment they have by all socially responsible governments so far, in which this Mirko Cvetkovic is ahead of them, is in such a situation as to welcome the one-time aid of 5,000 dinars such as the real premium, because it is used to buy the necessary medicines or to pay for the leftover receipts of the info. Pensioners should now be happy to some unsuspecting proportions because their pensions from January will be increased by 1% or 2%, which means that the largest number of them will be increased by some 500 dinars. Or perhaps they should be glad that, based on the inevitable recommendations of the IMF and the World Bank, the working age of those who are currently employed will soon be leveled, unfortunately, and with a lifetime? It's clear that this can't survive any further and that this system essentially fits only those first pension recipients, that in time this financial pyramid is being created that actually exploits all those younger workers, so we in the SRS are in favour of one fundamental radical reform, not these proposals of the laws on changes and additions that we have, because what we have absolutely is wrong. And to conclude – instead of going to retirement for our elderly citizens a beautiful event, it is obvious that for all those who experience it will be a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49284	National MP Jovan Nesovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49285	The Honorable chairman, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, is the state's budget for the government's economic policy for the year for which it is being brought. So this budget represents the economic policy the government planned to lead in 2011. What I would like to say at first is that this budget in the current political and economic situation in which the state is located is only possible. The budget deficit was projected at the level of last year, the growth of gross domestic product is twice as high as it was last year, and it will really take a lot of responsibility both in the ministries and in the government itself and in all those factors implementing economic policy in 2011 to achieve this 3% growth and to achieve the revenue and expenditure side or deficit of 120 billion defined here. What the government predicted was that in 2011, economic policy would focus on some four objectives, which are maintaining macroeconomic financial stability, supporting economic growth and the development of economic competitiveness and increasing employment and standards of the population and balanced regional development, are some of the goals that Serbia needed last year and this year, and will certainly need in the coming years too, so it is important for this budget to get as much support as possible, but also to achieve inflation as possible and all that is defined on the revenue side of the budget. I just want to share a few things with Members of Parliament and with members of the government, something about balanced regional development and economic activity in 2011. When we speak more evenly to regional development in Serbia, one of the important things is transfers, so-called non-purpose transfers to other levels of government, which are transfers from a republican level to local self-government. In 2009 and 2010, there were plenty of polemics, because part of the economic crisis was part of the burden transferred to local self-government, some thought it was unjust by the republican authorities, some thought it was so seas, but what is important in this year compared to last year, these transfers were increased by exactly 23.8%, i.e. the 2010 budget, these transfers were about 26.7 billion. For 2011, they are projected at 32 billion. It seems to me that in the beginning it should be said that it is not enough for local self-government, especially for those underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, because they are cramping at this point in their problems. On average, transfers from higher levels of government from local self-government account for 20% of total revenues. In poor municipalities it is more – 40, even 50%. Simply, in 2009 and 2010, because the transfers to these municipalities were reduced, these municipalities were unable to perform their basic functions that were defined, which is that high-quality schools and kindergartens could not invest in their local infrastructure, they could not even pay taxes. If the exact data provided by the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, these municipalities today owe about 17 billion dinars of municipal services, services to EPS and NIS in Serbia. It's a very important piece of information, and there's something that needs to be done. It is quite clear that with this package of laws, we are adopting amendments and additions to the Property Act, where local self-government is given the possibility that they can have additional incomes related to citizens' assets, but that we are immediately aware that today in Serbia it is difficult to collect it, because, especially in these poorest municipalities, citizens are the most and the poor. When you look at how many problems we have in legalisation, it is clear that the question of property tax will be difficult, so I'm not sure that local tax administrations will also have so much capacity, and that citizens can pay their taxes, so it seems to me that local self-government, especially the poorest, will also have certain problems in the future, which they had both last and previous years, i.e. in the past. It is also possible, it is defined, that the poorest local self-government can also have some additional funds from resolution ministries, even in that – the office for sustainable development, will define that this year there will be about 500 million dinars of more funds most often referred to those poorer local self-governments. It was also given to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, some hundreds of millions of dinars were defined for infrastructure. Other ministries have also defined certain funds that can be used by local self-government. There is one more thing, since these funds are allocated through certain competitions, I am not sure that the poorest municipalities will have the capacity to do quality projects, or project documentation, so that they can compete adequately and withdraw those funds, or what happened in the past – that those who have greater capacities, or those who are richer, are the first ones to come to these funds and can sooner withdraw those funds, while those who are poorer cannot reach those funds or are harder to reach those funds, so that the gap between the rich and the poor is deepening. It seems to me that in the coming period, there will be a solution to the government that these poorest municipalities will need to be helped. Last year, two billion dinars were provided through the NIP Ministry for the development of local infrastructure in the poorest municipalities in Serbia that reported projects and based on the competition, received funds to realise these projects. This year, if I have seen correctly, there are no funds at the Ministry of NIP and some other ministries, except for the Office for Sustainable Development, where some 500 million dinars of increase are foreseen compared to last year for the poorest municipalities in Serbia. The second thing I'm saying is, the controversy today was being led here in parliament, that the economy should give as much incentive as possible, because only by repairing the economy can we achieve that GDP is growing by 3% in 2011. It seems to me that a single item related to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is important, the purchase of domestic financial assets is 19.8 billion. This was what were the facts and most important measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia in response to the economic crisis in 2009 and 2010. These are subsidized credits for crafts, and also subsidised loans for investments, where banks decided on whom these funds would be allocated, and the government only gave subsidies through the Development Fund, i.e. that the businessmen had as favourable assets as possible. It seems to me that we have achieved here that we do not have a decline in domestic products like the fall in the state region, which I think is a great success of the government. The second thing, I think it's also good for the recovery of the domestic economy and subsidies that are defined for the purchase of domestic goods and goods. There is a defined subsidy for the purchase of buses, trucks, replacement of old cars, construction machines and production of rail vehicles and remont, because it is quite clear that if domestic production in some way is accelerated in these crisis times, and that means that people will remain employed at the FAP in Priboj, in "14 October" in Kruševec, in "Ikarbus". Simply, you create an opportunity to produce in companies, workers can work and earn their wages. A good example is the city from which I come, where in January 2010, the privatisation contract of the Car Factory from the Kingdom was broken, thanks to this programme of the Government of Serbia, and because the Serbian Railways have the need for new wagons and reparated wagons, the Car Factory received a certain job at some point, and people stayed to work and already in September began to sign foreign contracts, so that the Cars from the Kingdom, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who at some point held the company, could also export to developed EU countries, which is an imperative, will save the company at this point so that they can work, remain employed and certainly wait for the privatisation process, to find an adequate strategic partner. The second thing that is also important is the subsidies to private companies of 2.7 billion, slightly larger than last year and they are foreseen for greenfield investments. As a state, we have to fight how to get new investments, both domestic and foreign businesses. These 2.7 billion are something that gives the state a boost, and it is quite clear that both countries in the environment and among municipalities in Serbia are also competition, everyone is trying to attract investors, for the simple reason that they bring new technology, new jobs and most often have a market, and that means that the product will be placed on a market, which means foreign income for the country in which they are located. That's why it's important, in addition to having to equip the location, to offer them to locate their factories in these places, we have to be competitive, and that means we have to give certain incentives that are related to the employment of new people. It's a good thing this year they've been allocated funds since last year. This programme came to Serbia "Jurai", "Falk" and "Leoni". It is clear that we will have to do so in the coming years. What is often forgotten in public and often mentioned by foreign companies, because they employ a lot more people, competitions are public, the government of Serbia, or Sjepa, can also register domestic enterprises and certainly there is a mass of domestic companies that have withdrawn these funds, except that the number of employees is smaller than these foreign companies, and that is quite normal. What is also important, it seems to me, when I was just talking about underdeveloped municipalities, that there is a special line of the government of the Republic of Serbia to encourage undeveloped municipalities. When I said earlier that local self-governments of underdeveloped municipalities have fewer opportunities, and when I say less opportunities, I mean less capacity to do quality projects and documentation and in certain competitions to be competitors of larger and more developed municipalities, in this case I think the government did well by segregating a special fund of 1.7 billion, which is intended only for businesses in these undeveloped municipalities. It is clear that the funds are also distributed in competition, through the Development Fund. Anyone can apply, whoever has an idea, will best share funds, and that is, direct aid to the economy of these most underdeveloped municipalities. To raise economic development, one thing that went very badly last year in times of crisis, which is the construction industry. The construction industry has had a drop in production of over 20% of its activities, and it is good that this year the emergency support programme of the construction industry continues and it is good that through the Ministry of Spatial Planning, over 1,050,000 of the state's participation in those projects that have been jointly defined between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government that defined it, which is the participation of the 10% and 10% last and 10% of this year and local self-government, and the rest is a credit line, and that is certainly something that will help a lot, will be around 18 billion dinars going towards the construction industry for projects that have defined local self-government. I am absolutely sure that this will significantly improve economic activity in the area of construction, and that means total economic activity in the territory of the entire Serbian state. I want to take a chance since the minister is here to ask a question. Since I am a National MP from the Kingdom, my fellow MPs, members of the government, also know that the Kingdom on November 3rd has hit a devastating earthquake and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the days after November 3rd has promised to help resolve the effects of the earthquake. I guess I took a careful look at this budget and didn't notice the exact number. She's probably hiding somewhere over a division that's defined for the ministry. I would like the minister, in answer to the question, to help me with the opportunity that the city of Kraljevo, who, at this point, is important, can expect direct assistance, and how indirectly through the programmes that go through certain ministries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49286	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49287	Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, I really don't remember that in a multi-party system this few MPs have been debated about the budget, the most important law a country has passed. I remember neither before nor after 5 October that the budget was combined, amendments to the Law on PIO, new taxes, all that just so no one would explain, let's say, the amendments to the Law on PIO, and we saw how much Prime Minister Cvetkovic explained in total. He probably knows that it is difficult to defend something that is indefensible, so there is no understanding for him in that sense. This budget is like the previous party, and it's the product of your coalition, and since we're entering the pre-election year, since it's party, it's pre-election. I'll try to prove it on some examples of ad hoc. It is predicted that borrowing is planned, i.e. giving guarantees in the next year of over two billion euros for various things infrastructure, less or more. I'm not going to mention "Serbigas" now who needs a new 210m-euro to maintain current activities, and I think this year, in the beginning, 170m voted in guarantee. I'll only be on one small case to show how much the budget is party and how pre-election it is. A fivem-euro guarantee is foreseen "JAT technici" d.o.o. for the construction of hangar 2. This JAT Tech company is unable to service new-generation aircraft, so we'll buy it from an old generation. At the airport, the company has so many hangars that one can accommodate three large-scale aircraft, and the JAT currently has none of 12 planes, but it is obviously in the privatisation plan of JAT techniques and someone who will buy the JAT technique will also buy the loan of five million euros on much more favourable terms than it is commercial and with the guarantee of the state. Whose company is this? You know better than I do, from which coalition partners. If that's how it's done at the state level, which is not how it would work everywhere, regional, city, municipal, local community. I read the Council of the Community of Bosniaks, the Municipality of Varvarin, the public prosecutor, the subject – The spending of budget funds in the Municipality of Varvarin, has an attitude, for example, the asphalting of roads to Bosniaks. He says - no construction inspection, made, paid, is responsible for the works carried out. He says there's no record or chief of business, finance and urbanism. Says the public procurement service doesn't have any tender documentation. I mentioned the Bosniak, because someone important is from there. It is known who is from there, from Bosniaks, who is from Katun Gornji, but it is the story of public procurement and this budget has mirrored what international organisations say is the biggest corruption in public procurement, and they are from state to municipal level at four billion euros a year. It says -- the Office for Sustainable Development -- just one example -- last year, 15 million -- this year, 468 million -- Ministry Office. If I read you the regulation, and I don't have time, which is what this office does, you wouldn't be able to believe that that kind of money for buildings and construction works is meant for. I hope there's something for the King, though I doubt it. I'd like to see what's jumped so many times and what's to be built with, what's to be built and built. Is that an investment in Sandzak? I doubt it, but it's proof that elections are going and that someone needs money. Let's move on. Let's get another Ministry, say Rasim Ljajic. Institution for the register of compulsory social security and the exercise of the rights of employees from working relationship. Five million last year, this year 557 million. Since I can count, it comes out a hundred times. The other day, the minister said he was pleased with the budget. I'd be too if I had an item raised 100 times, and he says he doesn't have a coffee cook, or a porter in the ministries held by the DS, and that his party is unhappy. I don't know which of the two? This is evidence of a party state. I'm reading one piece of paper from a party in Barbarian. This decision obliges the directors of public enterprises, the party is certainly in power, officials in public functions, as well as all workers who have influence in the employment of workers, volunteers, etc., who are appointed by our party, that they must inform the party's presidency, the engagement of the same, and that they must keep an eye on employment, primarily members of our party. It's a decision, seduced, paper. I believe these at this National Council of Decentralization office, and yet we know who's running it, they didn't exactly make this kind of paper. This is so stupid. The Office of the National Council for decentralisation, 15 employees last year, and this year 25, i.e. This year, 15. Ten new jobs. If I read you what this office is doing, prepares sessions, saves records and new 10s, so when we have here to say nice – it must only be employed from our party, why don't we add 10 more? The election's coming. That's the problem with this budget, party, pre-election wasteful, all my colleagues said about agriculture, etc., what's wrong and only for the end of the PIO Fund. We have to go back, you know what someone said, I mean, the distinguished Mr. Colakovic, in our time, I guess it was good. In your time, a fund was spent, in your time a fund was broken, there were wars, and wars are looking for weapons, ammunition, food. It's all costing, it's worn out and now you say – where's the fund's income? Let's say "Mercur" in Vrnjačka Banja was made with money from that fund, so what you give for peanuts and who else is going to buy it, you guarantee you'll be filling it through the Department of Health Insurance of Diabetics. You ask us where the money is and where the income is. Well, here's your income, but you're in power, it's not us. This Mercury guy is selling one of your coalition partners. You all know it's made of that money. That's how it was spent. After that, it was wasted on the esophagus and the food. He came to pay and what to do now. You're in power, and your time hasn't passed. It's going on. We want this thing to end as soon as possible so that the pensioners can get their pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49288	The word has a People's MP Momo Colaković, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49289	It is a wonder that everyone on the way talks about PIO, even now Mr Ostojic. I can't help feeling that with a lot of wrong arguments, the wrong data is being manipulated here. It's said nothing for the pensioners has been done. The last few years, the increase has been 14%, and it says it was wrong, but now we should ask the pensioners if they could return 2.7 pensions from then on. Someone a few minutes ago, it's not Mr. Ostojic, he says it doesn't mean anything that seven billion have entered the poorest families. Either it's said there's going to be less pensions next year and there's nothing to be done or it's said that only pensioners are spoken of, so there's workers in the same position. This budget and this PIO law predicts that the fate of pensioners is shared. Harmonisation of pensions is in line with the growth of public sector wages, and this is the key to the agreement. Then why should pensioners be in a more favourable position if 1% is an increase in pensions. That's not true, 1% of the lowest, and then the lowest and the lowest are aligned. No matter what little it is, it is at this point an estimate that it is possible and so provided by law. Mr. Ostović, our time has not passed. That's what we talked about last time. We are both present and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49290	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49291	Mr. Colakovic, I didn't say your time had passed, but the exact opposite was not past. This whole thing you said doesn't apply to me, maybe the first one that I mentioned on the way. So I didn't propose the agenda in which all this was put together, I have seven minutes, and our parliamentary group 14. I'm sorry, but that's scandalous. It wasn't really about talking about this, it was about budgeting and taxes on southern fruits and bananas and not talking about pensions. Maybe someone imagined it, but the plans are to come true and not come true. This one didn't come true, I'm sorry. I said very nicely that someone in your parliamentary group mentioned that there is no own income fund but half of the contributions or 40% and half of the budget donations. Who are you complaining to? You're in power. Why isn't there? Let's say, the Mercury Hotel, which is known to be made of these pairs, goes to privatisation. He's not privatized by the DSS, he's privatized everything, but this isn't privatizing, it's one of you from G17. You have a letter from Vranjska Banja. I'm sure she doesn't exactly agree with such a policy that someone buys, and then he's guaranteed there'll be a lot over the Republic Service. I said it was the fund's capitalization. We don't manage the fund, you manage the fund. Since your time has not passed, and I agree, it has lasted and lasted, if the pensioners are satisfied with your past and present time, then let them be satisfied. We also consider what we are proposing to see in the future that pensioners receive pensions in the future because the lack of reform of the pension system and the delay for 2013 will lead to the situation that they will not receive them. We take care of pensioners even though we don't call ourselves PUPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49292	Mr. Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49293	Thank you very much. There's a budget debate going on, there's a debate going on as it can be about the PIO Act, and I agree with the majority in that finding, which is condemned in a perfiduous way, but I'd like to ask the MPs, I don't want to cause any additional replicas, that there's a little parallel theme of calling out colleagues from other MPs' clubs, getting to know topics like privatisations, making an impression in the speech that the DSS is tied up, it's probably being said for some kind of massive privatisations like this that they haven't even privatised, but they are a lot of things, let it go. The DSS led at least one successful government where there was no DS and during that time we had essentially the most successful privatisation, and what they were before that, during the government of Mr. Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic, this is a special topic for a special semester. So don't talk about it. Without any need to challenge any further controversy, I wanted to do what every head of the Parliament Club has to do at a time like this, that is to defend its parliamentary club from these witty attacks on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49294	National MP Momo Colaković, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49295	Just two things to say, to be clear. There's an impression that we're replicating each other, and we're all in favour of real reform. We get the impression from some of the discussions that we're not up for it. Anyway, we did. The continuation of reform is the fourth chance we have to try. She is slow, but at this point only possible. That's what needs to be continued, and there's no delay. I agree with Honourable Member Grubjesic. She made a very nice genealogy and suggestions. About what you said, yes, in full agreement with the Mercur Fund is privatizing. True relationships have been established. If you need information to be given, I would ask the Fund to ask you to have the right information, that it will go with the Fund's consent, and in such a way you should privatise all the material goods in which the Fund invested in the previous decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49296	Mr. Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49297	I didn't, Mr. Aligrudic, it was just on the way for privatisation. Whenever privatisation is mentioned, no matter what you think of your government without DS, I kind of remember the village of Bosnjanje. That's why I mentioned him. You know very well who is from the village of Bosnje and the great privatisation done in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, but it's not a topic. You didn't propose a budget, and I have no intention of replicating it with you. Mr. Colakovic, we are in favour of reform and you are in favour of reform. The only thing we can't do is reform, and you can. That's a small difference. Well, I wouldn't be understated to say that you've had a lot of time. You say so yourself - in your time. You could have done it in your time, before and at this time. So you have a chance to do it. We're criticizing you for not doing it, which you delayed for 2013. We think this way, that then the problems will be bigger and it will be harder to achieve that reform, or the price will be more expensive. That's the only thing that's slow about it. You can stand up and we stand up. You can do it, we can't. You don't do it, we criticize you for not doing it, not standing up for it. It's great that you're up for it, but do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49298	The word is a folk letter from Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49299	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my presentation will be focused on part of the budget relating to KIM above all I live on KIM, but also because I want to point out frequent use of funds under the mask of false patriotism. I leave the rest of the budget to lawmakers who are economists by vocality and who will make a significant contribution to today's debate. The government's draft 2011 budget proves, among other things, that it has not left the fight for KIM, demonstrates a high level of political and social and social responsibility. The proper distribution of these funds will continue activities to survive and improve the economic and social position of the Serb community in the KIM areas. Soon it should enter the congregation procedure and the bill of so-called law. A Kosovo supplement. It is embarrassing to make a fair distribution of these social benefits because all the people of KiM share the same fate and fears and it is not right to be privileged only to be budgetary users. It is not social justice that people who are financed from the budget receive both salary and Kosovo supplement, and those who unfortunately do not work anywhere and live with their families in KIM do not receive either. We heard today from the opposition about the budget a lot of rhetoric and a little content. Gentlemen, when you criticize, you offer some solutions to see what you would do. I suggest we bypass both demagogue and ideological disagreements to go out to the bar and look ourselves in the eye. How will you explain your good intentions at global level when you do not want to, you cannot or cannot solve the problems of citizens at the local level for which we have provided you with the funds? Let me give you a specific example. I am personally very interested in solving the water supply problem for three municipalities in KIM, Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvečana and Zubin Potok. I note that by pawning DS water lines, it entered the budget at the end of December 2008. My colleague Dragisa Djokovic and I are subject to an amendment accepted by the Finance Committee. The water pipeline enters the budget in the year of recession, the global economic crisis, which shows that despite the difficult economic situation in the country, it meets the promises made in the elections, that it will solve the specific problems of the KIM citizens. I continued to monitor what was going on on in the field with this project, and based on what I saw, I am responsible for saying that the representatives of these municipalities do not want this project to be realized. Whether because of incompetence or inability to get a commission out of this project, I'm going to let the citizens judge. It is truly a devastating fact that despite the fact that the government's term of office, the water line has entered the budget for the third time, and in the field, things are almost not moved from the dead spot. The only bright spot is that last month representatives of these municipalities finally signed a contract with business banks. Two years, absolutely nothing has been done. Apparently, they were hoping for early parliamentary elections so they didn't want the pipeline realised by the government's efforts. If we in the DS have to ask the opposition to use funds and guarantees from the budget and make a water line for all of us living on KIM to set foot in the 21st century, then we're like a society in serious trouble. I would ask the finance minister -- does the government have mechanisms, say, through the KIM Ministry to solve this problem, to speed up this process? I have a concrete proposal. Perhaps it would be good for the municipalities to send a report to the KIM Assembly Committee to see how far this project has been realised and to accompany the movement of money flows. I'm sure that's when we'd get both transparency and speed. It is also unacceptable for the second time to delay the construction of a union building in Kosovo, Mitrovica, which was torn down two years ago. The residents of this building have been living in some temporary solutions for two years. They were completely forgotten, and the municipality has 60 million own money and the KIM Ministry has provided 10 million for that purpose. Gentlemen of the opposition, I invite you to cooperate. Show that you are truly interested in people who live on KIM. Explain to your people at the bar that there will be no elections before 2012. Convince them to use the funds this government has provided them, because I will not give up. I'll say as long as it takes for these problems to be solved and at least make it seem like a decent place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49300	Replica, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49301	Because of this generic mention of the opposition, and the matter was related to KIM and the submission of water-water amendments, very short correctness works. In this year, it was reduced by 1m euros in the RS budget. As for 2008, the amendment was then submitted by DSS MP Vlad Milentijevic. The miracle was like this – your amendment was accepted, and the DSS amendment is not exactly the same. It is a matter of passion that we constantly point to and do not discuss in the parliament of the public. As for the current state of affairs, MP Vlad Milentijevic of the DSS has submitted an amendment not to be such a small asset, and I do not know what MPs from the ruling coalition have done. As far as you're concerned, I believe in your well-meaning and that everything you've said here is like the fact that every word you've spoken has been spoken in the very good sense and the interest of the people and the citizens who live where you are from. I believe deeply, and I don't want to make any kind of controversy in that sense. I have put this out for the sake of correctness so that those who are in opposition do not make proposals to fix and change and that they have not done so before, and that this is true consult with your colleagues from the political party and see if I am right or wrong about this. Otherwise, the general remark that we are making objections and we are not giving solutions does not stand, because all the remarks issued by the authorised representative of Nenad Popovic's group, including Radet Obradovic's vice-president, were automatically and concrete proposals on how to set the budget at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49302	Time. Mrs. Milisavljevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49303	Mr. Aligrudić, the means of water implementation are enough, but they are obviously not enough to appease the appetites of local owners. That's what you and I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49304	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and distinguished Mrs Dragutinovic, you know that we at the DSS are always trying to understand your legal proposals here. On the draft budget, you know that we have sent you a memo to present the 2011 budget to the DSS parliamentary group. We have no excuse because you're breaking the Budgetary System Act again, because you haven't made a good budget proposal, but it's not worth it. Obviously, something's not working out for us in that communication. We've got some problems. I don't know if it's love, but this is still a document that depends on all the citizens of this country and the institutions in it. The budget, as one of its colleagues said, is an expression of the government's economic policy. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, today in the shortest speech in the history of the Serbian parliament held by a prime minister, explained the government's proposal. To make evil bigger, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic in the previous government was not a minister of religion, but rather a minister of finance, so I can't believe he couldn't say something more concrete about the 2011 budget When we talk about the budget next year, I really do have the need, though unfortunately, we don't have enough time to ask a thousand questions, why, as this budget looks like. This budget, some of the colleagues also said, is a pre-election budget. I can agree with that, although it would be better to say that this is idealized despair. Why? Because it is the result of a compromise between Serbia's acquired manager, meaning the IMF and individual political leaders and ministers in the government who promised these citizens an increase in wages, pensions, new investments, a better life and who knows what else. Unfortunately, this budget has proved to be a drawback from both citizens and businesses in the Republic of Serbia. It clearly shows that both salaries and pensions will be lower in the coming year, because the Serbian economy is at the bottom of the European scale and do not fool us into not being so. Serbia has the lowest employment rate in Europe. Someone earlier from colleagues also from the ruling coalition said that the rate is below 50%, but it is 38% and the European average is 65%. Two hundred thousand people who lost their jobs this year will certainly not be able to contribute to making this budget better, but will be on the other side that will require social assistance so they can survive. The state of Serbia does not pay for water, does not pay for electricity, phones. Serbia is a leader in inflation. The economy and the citizens are over-indebted, and that's what we've agreed on many times in this room. The NBS is trying to prevent the collapse and stop this collapse of intervention on the foreign market, as in October 2008, more than three billion and two hundred million euros were invested in defence of the course. This is almost the value of Corridor 10, and according to a colleague seven, eight years ago in this House, he did not know it was Corridor 10, but said Corridor X, it seems that this Corridor X is repeating itself this year. Industrial production has been below the level since 1989. Why? Also, someone mentioned earlier that these money had gone into some private pockets, and this government had allowed tycoons to do things in the trade and services sector. What's the consequence? We are now hitting the wall, precisely because you have transferred the problems of 2008 and 2009 to 2011 and 2012, the electoral will. And after that, what's going to happen, we'll see, but it's important that we do something like do something by 2012 and collect some votes in the next election. A huge part of private debt has been broken down in the state, and the state on the other hand promises development. What development can we talk about, Mrs Dragutinovic, when spending is planned 40% of what is earned. I'm not sure that the kiwi tax, mango and papaya in a 10% higher amount will fill the budget gaps so that these shortcomings can be covered. Indeed, today we have agreed on a shameful move by the government to increase the tax on computers and hotel services. Fortunately, we have information that the government will give up that Mr Djelic will give up this proposal, that the amount will remain 8%. At least this for computers, I don't know about hotel accommodations, but I hope you don't charge that 10% VAT tax to more people who will camp outside the presidency if necessary. Mrs Dragutinovic, who makes more money, must pay progressively, not proportionally more. When we talk about interest, only interest payments next year on domestic public debt in 2011 will cost more than 24 billion dinars. Foreign lenders over 14 billion, which is twice the amount this year. We are talking about the budget development segment as presented by Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Capital investments in this budget are foreseen and participating with only 31.8 billion dinars. What about those promises that money will be invested in infrastructure, that it will not be spent on current consumption and that it should ensure greater economic growth? Investments can be 100 dinars high, but that's not enough. It is not enough 31 billion dinars for Serbia to develop next year. There's no leaving the crisis without a quality administrative apparatus, no good, no responsible, capable government. It will also not be this newly announced, makeupd, ondulgated, pre-election government whose election is announced for the beginning of next year. I'm sure she won't start all these processes, because in this period, a bad state is created, because it's based on lies and illusions. If this budget didn't have this much weight, I could feel free to say that it was just a cobweb and a simple foam that nothing could be used in the new year. The good evidence Mr Obradovic also spoke of were amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System. You haven't been able for 60 days to predict how cash flows are going to move in this country. Since 12 October when we adopted the Bill on the Budgetary System and the fiscal responsibility that you have violated this time, it predicted that the pension increase would be between 5% and 6%, so that it would only reduce those changes to 2%. No wonder we're only talking about the PIO Act along the way, because there's very little time to talk about it seriously. But it doesn't matter, so tomorrow we're going to talk about Deputy Citizens' Protectors in full time, and about a million and seven hundred thousand people who are receiving pensions in this country we're going to talk about in the context of a brief debate, united by seven other points. Let's get to that reform, so-called. Retirement system reform. Dear pensioners, parents, our neighbors, friends, professors, poor banks, as you called them the other day at a press conference, I'm guessing none of us at the DSS are comfortable when we talk about this. I'm probably red as a Malboro now, regardless of whether it's an increased or reduced excise, but it's not my shame. It is the shame of those who propose this law and who will vote for this law, as it is. Unlike the budget where a thousand questions can be asked why, we can only here when it comes to the Law on PIO to establish certain things, because you don't care what happens to these people, because the pre-election promise of politicians to pensioners is that pensions won't fall below 70% of the average profit. Today it has been proven in the government's document, clearly shown that today it is 58% of the average profit, because while you're beaten with false promises, these same politicians pensioners earn astronomical sums of money. Because individuals receive both salaries and pensions and fees ranging from 180,000 to 200 thousand dinars, because of these millions and seven hundred thousand pensioners incur their 1,300 capers in various boards of directors. These are the employed pensioners Mr. Peric spoke of today. Because politics is not being conducted today in state institutions, but being held at conventions, at party assemblies, on party birthdays. Therefore, pensions cannot be expected to grow realistically because it is impossible for GDP to be higher than 4% next year, so the adjustment of pensions from 1 April will only be measured for first quarter 2011 prices, because the lowest pensions will now be increased by 1%. Imagine when you increase 11 thousand dinars by 1%. For that money, for that hundred and ten dinars you can't buy a pound of bananas. You can buy 1.5 kg of sugar, I can buy three pâtés, I can buy three lollipops, and that's the increase we need to talk about today as a big concession to the pensioners. The same situation is in the following case. Since the insurance effort to determine the age pension is increasing for a woman's insurance company by 6%, that used to be 15%. It's also the same situation with disability pensions. Because you've been double-crossed because you're not going into retirement at 53, as an agreement with the unions has been signed, but at 53 and four months. Unions that announced that they would have huge protests if the bill was passed, after signing the agreement with the government, realised they were being cheated, but wrote a letter to the government to make its remarks. Why did these remarks not come out when the presidents of the individual unions sat in the front row at a political party's congress? Because at the end of everything they're going to say – we're sorry, we couldn't do it anymore, that's the situation. I just expect Mr. Peric, as an authorised representative of the PUPS, to finally tell a sad story about his grandfather and grandson, after which some will laugh and some will cry. They remember very well what that story looked like. The DSS Group wants neither, nor can, nor must support such a draft budget, nor the PIO law. We really do not want to humiliate our parents or citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49306	Mr. Djuro Peric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49307	I think it's very incorrect that this exposure is incorrect. First, let me say that the law that your minister passed is still in force, Minister Lalovic, who passed it. That's what all the pensions and so on come from, but that's not the most important thing right now. The most important thing is that they don't just increase by 2% of that pension, that's what you tried to say afterwards, but you didn't finish it by the end, which is that there's going to be three pension adjustments next year. This first one is just an emergency alignment of the new year with 2%, and the rest will be according to how statistics will prove it. That's one thing. Second, about that employment and how the maltenes of us PUPS are all on some kind of board of directors, that we're all employed somewhere, etc., that's not true. No PUPS MP is on any board of directors, and how many people are employed as senior pensioners, because they are the only ones who can be hired because they meet the full conditions for it, that's another story. Secondly, the average pension and profit ratio is not true, what Mr. Obradovic was saying. Here, I have the original data of the PIO Fund, where it is now 63%, but the total mass of all pensioners, including military. When you're going individually, and I have to say later when I'm discussing at the end of the ballad, I'm going to say something that can't even talk more about all pensioners because there are big differences between groups and groups. We have four systems, in fact, from the Fund of Employees, independent, agricultural and military. It's all different.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49308	Time. Thank you. Two DSS MPs called to replicate. Make sure it's Vice President Obradovic or Mr. Petkovic. I guess, Vice President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49309	Mr. Peric called the parliamentary group, so as deputy head of the parliamentary group, I must once again point out, Mr. Peric, unlike you, we do not share pensioners. For us all pensioners are equal and there are a million and 620 thousand, and if you count that there are several different categories, we can't agree on that, because for us from the DSS, the problem is that farmers have a pension of eight thousand dinars. It's a serious problem for us. What you're thinking is something else, it's not a problem for us. At a time when laws were passed, and you in the government document say they were good reforms, I assume you support this document. They say the reforms that have been implemented so far have been very good and have produced excellent results. If that's it, I can only thank you for supporting what we've been doing. At the time we proposed laws, the average pension was more than 70% of the average salary. If it's 58% today, it's hard to object to anything. As for average pensions for employees and pensions, there are four pensions that are larger than 102,000. I guess you're not thinking about them, I don't know who it's about. They have no problem, as well as those pensioners who have salaries and pensions and some other benefits, they also do not, do they, Mr. Omerovic, have no problem. I guess that's why we're talking about it today. We need to look the truth in the eye and we need to tell what's true and what's not. It's the only way we can solve the problem. By satisfying only individual interests, whether it is four people who have over 100,000 pensions, whether it is five people who have pensions and salaries, whether it is a hundred people, it will not solve Serbia's problem and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49310	Time. It is known under what circumstances the pension level was 68% at the time. (Radojko Obradović, from the post: Injuda Polovnika, Article 27) I won't be able to give my word. I think we're done with the replicas. You didn't get the word. Mr. Milos Aligrudić, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49311	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Please, ask for a word, give the vice president of the Assembly to chair, ask for a word, I don't know if you applied for a discussion in front of the SPS and discuss it. If you feel called, ask for a line from your colleague and discuss it. Please do not enter into the content of the discussion and do not hesitate to discuss the content of the discussion that MPs are presenting. That's our thing. Don't abuse the chair, please. I know you didn't do it on purpose, and I know it doesn't happen to you often, but trust me, in situations like this, I have to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49312	Mr. Aligrudić, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I am in charge of taking care of the order and the atmosphere, and sometimes I have to focus certain content of the speaking. That's what I did this time. Thank you for mentioning the SPS, I didn't mention it, and I thank you. Mr. Đuro Peric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49313	I've got to figure it out next. I didn't share pensioners by some groups, but Mr. Obradovic, I guess you're familiar with the fact that there are four pragmatisms in which individual groups retired. There's one in the employees, one in the independent works, and one in the farmers of military insurance. So that's what I've been talking about, and with each of these groups, special conditions are retirement and retirement. As for employment, it's not two over 100,000, it's 67. It is precisely the proposal for this law to reduce that amount of pension, from factor four to factor 3.8. But it's none of us in that group. I don't think you think it's about us now, so that's what we're talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49314	Here you go, but only you, I really can't give it to Mr. Petkovic and you. Identify yourselves. (Miroslav Petkovic, from the post: Replica. You can't get the word, please. Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49315	According to official statistics coming from the PIO Fund, this is the data, there are 60 pensioners who have a pension of more than 102,000. There are four pensioners who have a pension of more than 102,776 dinars, 10% or 2% for pensions of 100,000 dinars is one story and 1% for a pension of 5,000 dinars is another story. There are 222,850 pensioners in Serbia at the moment who are farmers who have obtained pensions under the law. If we're talking statistics, then we have to take them. You say, "We're only interested in those who have the most, that's our electoral body, we're interested in them, and those who have a small pension, we don't care. Also, I can say - okay, inflation is wrong, inflation should take bread, milk, meat, oil, what I'm interested in. That when inflation counts, cars and planes, so if it comes to 11%, that's one story, but we can't figure out inflation one way, consumer basket growth, and another way to count pensioners, so we say, wait, wait, then we'll just take the ones we're interested in, so it'll fix our statistics. So let's say that Serbia is the best country in the world because there are the largest number of rich people here. When you look at private planes and yachts, we're probably at the top of Europe. It can't be done, Mr. Perry. Either we have a unique statistic or we don't. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49316	MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the SNS has a desire to talk about the PIO Act. My little one is in charge of that law. So far, we have talked about the budget, but we believe that this law that has been proposed in some way is immoral, unacceptable and sad that it is in the process today at this meeting. The reason is that we have a burden of savings that is inevitable, since we have a catastrophic economic situation, since we have a debt crisis which is a profit, given that we have a systemic crisis, it is obvious that systemic reforms have not been done properly. The fact is that we have a great public spending, that we have had a bad assessment of everything that is ahead of us and that this government has made very bad solutions, the burden of all of this cannot fall on the poorest and the poorest. One of the poorest and most endangered groups is certainly pensioners. In the previous Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the SNS recognized certain problems. I specifically asked for authentic interpretation when it comes to a member of Law 63. A member of the law in 63rd, unfortunately, did not find himself in the amendments and additions to this law, and we should, because we have a big problem with the calculation of the personal coefficient. The fact is that the computer program that has the PIO's personal coefficient accounts for the fact that in the last year, no matter how many months are collected in the calculation of that coefficient, that amount is divided by the average for the whole year. I have before me an account of one of my neighbors Jagodinac, Mr. Vojinović Vukosava, who was retired in the seventh month and when calculating the coefficients was taken for the seven months, and the average earnings for a year were compared to that profit and there was a coefficient of about 0.57. If he had left at 12 months, comparing with the annual coefficient, that coefficient would have been significantly higher. In the end, these coefficients are summed up and divided by the number of coefficients and thus the pensioners are cut off by a few hundred dinars. It all depends on whether you retired in January or left in December. If you left in December, there's no interruption, but if you left in January, it's the difference. Maybe that difference isn't big for us, but it's big for people who take relatively small pensions. I asked, as I said, a year ago for the authentic interpretation of this article 63. Unfortunately, the Legislative Committee had no understanding. He addressed the government, the government sent an unmistakable statement saying everything and everything, except how the personal coefficient is calculated, which is given in this article 63, which is literally but quite illogically applied in the calculation of pensions. So, a lot of things, when it comes to pensioners, are badly done in the previous period, and the fact is that from 2000 to 2002, through various changes, we have restrictions in this area, we have a reduction in pensioners' rights and in most of the poor social situation of pensioners, than it was in some previous period, at least counting on that average salary. We also think that these obligations that this country has towards the IMF, and above all concerns interest, relate to loans taken in the years behind us, since 2000 and back here, and apparently in 2010, will have to be returned, cannot be brought to the burden of the poorest, absolutely certain. That we have a drop in industrial production, that we have a fall in employees, a drop in profits, a drop in living standards, that's the fault of this government, that's the fault of this state administration. If someone was to bear the burden of all these difficulties, if they need to be harmonised over someone's back, reduce spending to pay for loans and interest, it is primarily the state administration that has proved unable to manage this country. What's a big problem, that's the fact that we have a very small charge, that we have an increasingly grey economy, we have a fact that we can only go through public procurement, which according to the European Commission or the World Bank, don't hold my word, about four billion euros, 25% of these funds go through corruption, through crime. That's about a billion euros somewhere. It's about 100 billion dinars, and the transfer from the budget to the PIO fund is 230 billion dinars. So, only through the fight against corruption and crime can we replace at least a little more than 30% of those funds and we could get into a situation, not if pensions decrease, but if pensions increase, not just to pensioners, but also to other socially endangered categories. Also, I would say, it's a shame that the government and union president's agreement was not respected, that only a month ago we had this agreement, that the union accepted that he was not going with the petition, that he was not creating problems for the government, and that he was being played out in some way, because what was done was done primarily when it came to women who were retired and an increased age limit, but it was not a respected agreement to keep everything the way it is now until 2013. We also have a big problem with raising pensions. If you remember, the Fiscal Responsibility Act meant that coordination would take place in the last six months and that the Fiscal Responsibility Act was respected, you would have a 6% pension increase in January. You have some clauses in the very law that are unacceptable, that is, they mean nothing, because by increasing GDP by 4% is a dream, just the desire of this government. This year you have 1.5%. Next year you projected 3%. What's going to happen in 2012? All in all, the situation is very bad. Today, what is important as one data, the average life span for a man in Serbia is about 69.7 years. If they're going to retire at 65, then retirement can be used for five years. For women, according to the data I have, 75 years old, which means it's just a 17-year-old thing. In EU countries, the situation is much more favourable when it comes to their citizens and pension benefits are much longer. In order not to take too much time away from my colleague who needs to say a lot about problems in the field of agriculture, I would just like to remind you in the end that we in Serbia today have about 800,000 unemployed, that we have about 300,000 people who receive minimals, some 15-16 000, as you have now raised to about 5%, and that this law will mean that there will probably be another 500,000 people hungry in the pension population, another 400,000 poor. Unfortunately, in 2012, since you do not have any guarantee that pensions will be as much followed by salaries, we will have close to 50% of Serbian citizens who will be poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49318	Thank you. National MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49319	I thank the president. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will allow me to look back at Mr Ostojic's crocodile tears at the beginning for the atmosphere that prevails during the budget debate. There are no LDP MPs in the benches tonight. I am very sorry that I could not take advantage of the capacity offered by the Rules of Procedure to respond to what was mentioned, and it is related to G 17 plus and so-called privatisation of the company "Mercur" in Vrnjačka Banja. Absolutely not the facts. There, in fact, the Republic remains in half of the company’s founding rights, or ownership. On the other hand, an invitation has been issued to a strategic partner who is likely to be one of the operators who has the task and condition that these hotel and Bani facilities are filling in. So, this is about a very superficial discussion, which, in the end, comes down to the fact that, apart from the ordinary pamphlet and the phrase concerning reform of pension and disability insurance, spoken by colleagues, in one flossule, I say pamphlet, which is defined and repeated as a -- a mantra intergenerational agreement I will refer to something that may be, by which the Serbian Parliament is unique, and that is probably to the least possible extent speaking about a health dinar, or health register, whether it is a fruit of indifference or something that may be a bad tradition that exists in us, and that this resource of a health dinar and health register is a fact-finding mobile that now, in all conditions and all times, has to be on stable feet. I'm sorry there aren't any of my colleagues here that I often debate with, but at times when we're dealing with laws that have nothing to do with budgets, that's when the topic opens, and tonight when you have to talk about it simply by the other side of the one who's in the mood to debate. So, what's this about? There's often a topic here that's actually being set aside for health care. What's out of what's so-called. Public revenues can see that Serbia, according to what the financial plan of the RZZO shows, is about 5.6% of gross social product. However, it is much more important here that the average, i.e. detachment per capita, is 265 euros. It is the least convincing isolation for health care in Europe. On the other hand, you often ask yourself, is that so much? In all possible projections, as well as the so-called so-called projections. paying out of your pocket, you can no longer come to a higher number of 300 euros, and then at 300 euros we are convincing with the lowest health leave in the region. On the other hand, there are expectations that we get top quality health care. At this point, I want to look back at something that is, in some sense, related to these changes concerning pension disability insurance, and they concern something that is slowly like destabilising the RZO. That's what I've been up to for the last two budgets, and I've been telling me on all the rebalancing that this medical register is getting into bigger and bigger problems. So this is also said in this explanation, that at this point in time for millions and 200,000 people in Serbia, who exercise the right to health care by paying them health insurance from the budget of the Ministry of Health. According to that projection, we should... (President: Time. I'm done. What's a general problem is that RZO is in a very serious problem that can result in drug shortages in spring. So, my general message – I think there is a will in the Ministry of Health that Prime Minister Cvetkovic's cabinet is seriously considering and that open support for a more serious reform of the health insurance system, in order to preserve the stability of the health register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49320	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49321	Ladies and gentlemen, and this time, the government has shown that it is consistent with tradition and that it breaks all deadlines when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The bill is an indicator, above all, of the absence of a plan and programme for Serbia's exit from the difficult economic situation in which the state is today. Indeed, it is an objective reflection of our country's economic strength, as Prime Minister Cvetkovic pointed out in his short-minute address. However, it is tragic that the economic situation in the country today is what it is and therefore someone would have to bear responsibility. All moves, decisions, packages of measures are explained in one sentence – that everything is agreed with the IMF. That's the answer we hear when someone's criticizing you. He's an excuse for all your moves. The budget, like many laws before it, illustrates the government's inability to face the fact that, by respecting the real needs of the economy and society, it makes a turn in economic policy. Listening to the prime minister and finance minister, the impression is that it is two different budgets, two different states. The prime minister said and announced the economic recovery at the beginning of the few shrewd sentences, after which he left, allegedly aimed at directing the new model of economic development. It's all just the Prime Minister's wishes and propaganda. The budget cannot draw any indicators that would indicate that something is happening in that direction. Praise GDP growth of 1.5%. What about inflation? You're saying that subsidies to businesses are frozen, but that's not true, subsidies are due to inflation, in fact, reduced. It's the same with salaries and pensions. An increase in wages and pensions of 2% in January cannot reduce their real decline due to inflation growth. The explanation that compliance with inflation was not possible, as it would have been a matter of urgency for fiscal rules, that the public debt would not be greater than 45% of GDP, cannot possibly justify your previous actions. First, the fact that, as you admit, inflation was the biggest in the past few years. Is that what the citizens are to blame? No, that's what the government and the NBS are responsible for, but the government, headed by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, seems to have amnested all kinds of responsibility, and citizens are expected to bear the greatest burden. The global economic crisis seems to have become an alibi for all the bad moves and, above all, inaction. You claim the deficit will decrease to 1% of GDP by 2015. How are you gonna do that? By increasing revenues certainly not, but by reducing public spending. That's what you do. Of course, no one argues that the share of public spending is large, but it can be done primarily by increasing revenues. This budget is certainly not a development budget, but it is neither restrictive, i.e. it is restrictive when it comes to economy, health care and a number of other things. Examples that illustrate your policy are a lot. Health care is one of those examples. The contribution of health funds to GDP is reduced year by year. A projection was made to make it so in the future. On the other hand, not transparent allocations to contract services and specialised services continue to make very big budget spending. The item -- the president's office, prime minister and vice president's cabinets spend about 88.5m dinars. Where are the other ministries, various offices, administrations, agencies for this item? The subsidies to agriculture have increased, but by only two billion dinars, so they now amount to 20 billion dinars, or around 190m euros, which is very little, especially because of the fact that agricultural support is growing from year to year, although this sector could in the future affect the growth of budget revenue. Of course, such a thing requires support from a country that is lagging behind. This is where we come to another absurd -- agriculture is intended for 20 billion dinars, but that's why the Fiat was meant to be 9.5. by a different redistribution of funds that amount could have been much higher. The government, if it wanted to, had had to give up some unnecessary expenditure, say, such as 30m euros in funds intended to buy planes for the government's needs. You know, the economy in this country doesn't just make up "Fiat." Serbia cannot afford that luxury, cannot allow itself to be allowed by a much more developed country, to give up certain parts of the economy. It is incomprehensible that you increase VAT on hotel services, although tourism revenues last year fell by 8%. It is similar with increasing VAT on computers, although everyone is well-known for the fact that there has been a decline in traffic in this area. The property tax couldn't possibly be called a fair tax, but primarily by hitting the middle class. Budget taxes account for 93.2% of income. Of which 50% of VAT revenues, and concerns the fact that income from profit tax remains low and account for only 4.8% of total income. Credits for liquidity are indicators that there's no indication of any recovery of the economy. The planned revenues from customs have been reduced by 8.5%, which is the continuation of the trend from previous periods, but primarily due to the effects of applying the transitional trade agreement. You have confirmed with the budget what we have since the moment you announced that Telecom will be sold out – that the state will give up the most profitable public enterprise to repay debts. As you claim, Mrs Dragutinovic, you said it-will be the funds for early repayment of old commercial loans. You're increasing funds by local self-government by 25%, which is not enough to correct a mistake and the fact that by law you would reduce funds by local self-government, justifying it as one of the savings measures in terms of the economic crisis. Demonstrating the central power of executive power, you have been brought into an unenviable position of individual municipalities and cities. Many of your moves have been followed by the absence of any logic. You're a government that takes two steps backwards first and only then, when it does damage, tries to make it right but only one step ahead, which is not enough. It concerns the fact that the government intends to pay particular attention to only encouraging exports to the EU, bypassing other markets, primarily the Russian Federation market, in its main objectives and economic policy guidelines for 2011. Does that make sense? Of course not. Does it make sense when the president of the state, taking over the role of prime minister, presidents of undeveloped municipalities where 850,000 people live by standard, 60% below average, confidently demonstrating the power of messages – the state will not help fallen factories but build infrastructure? Since no one has denied Tadic, we assume that the government, headed by the prime minister, agrees with that statement. The question arises – what will these citizens whose factories are destroyed by poor privatisation until infrastructure is built and investors come, as promised by the president, and the ministers promise? Can they stop their lives at that time? Can they not pay the bills? Interrupt children's schooling? To conclude, there is no living out of promise. At least that hasn't worked for anyone yet. The life of a society and economy is much more complex than the way the government treats it. That is why the SRS will not support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49322	I give my word to Parliamentarian Natashi Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49323	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we are discussing the most important issues that one government is preparing and proposing to Parliament – the budget, the tax system, pensions. So how the state will collect revenues, how it will burden citizens, how it will provide conditions for investment development, how it will stimulate savings or encourage consumption. It is certain that the economic crisis in this year 2010 has had a very serious impact on the standard of living of our citizens. For many, the standard has fallen, and safety in the workplace has become something that is most important and priority for everyone – to preserve every job. Because opening a new job is certain to be a priority for this government and it is committed to doing so. The government has managed, as much as possible, to preserve stability in these conditions, to ensure the regularity of payments from budgets to budget users and certainly to commend the government. It is a very difficult task to make a budget in terms of reduced productivity and growing needs on all sides. Of course, the burden of this economic crisis must certainly be distributed more evenly. It is necessary to develop social solidarity, continue with a strategy to fight poverty, encourage families and children in particular. In this context, I really want to join colleagues who praised the government for its success in raising the science budget next year because it is one of the DS's strategic priorities, among other things, to develop Serbia as a knowledge society. In these difficult conditions today, we are also discussing a proposal on amendments to the Property Tax Act. I would like to focus precisely on this bill of law that has recently spurred the very great interest of citizens and their reactions in recent days. We heard the law introduces numerous newspapers. He's taking off some of his so far reliefs and credits. It aims to simplify tax accounting and to burden more owners of larger assets. It's all right. However, the question arises whether the solutions offered can be achieved in a good way, without producing, on the other hand, some negative consequences that could arise from the application of the law in practice. Whether basic concepts related to the Institute of Property Tax are respected, I would like to say a few things about that. In fact, it is known from the comparative practice that the property tax is subsidiary, therefore, of the supplementary tax. It cannot be in any way the main tax revenue of the state. He is corrective and the main indicator of the taxpayer's tax force is certainly income tax. There we should not make any mistake in regarding the tax on property and property as what is crucial when we determine the tax power of the taxpayer. So, the taxpayer's power is measured by his profit and just as much as we can by tax on income to burden his profits, we're going to have a really fair tax system. In order to be a fair law on property tax, he must respect several rights and principles. First of all, the principle of equality of citizens must be fully respected when a new property tax law is passed. Is this possible in conditions where, as we read from our press, there are almost a million illegal objects in our country, when we have a large percentage of unreported immovableities, for which there is no tax on property for years, in a situation where the tax system is very inefficient. There is a concern of citizens who regularly pay property taxes, who, in accordance with the law and in good time, have applied their property, that they are brought into an unfair treatment, or that it would be good if the state made a greater effort to equalise citizens who, on the one hand, pay a regular tax, who have reported their property, and those who have acquired their property in an irregular manner. Secondly, what I think is important and what is not seen enough in this bill, which is that the property tax law must respect one human right, which is the right to residence. Therefore, housing policy aims to develop certain housing standards, a certain culture of housing. It's also a European standard. It may not be uniform across the EU, but as a policy it is a standard. Some countries acknowledge that one citizen, per individual, is 20, 25, or 30 square meters, which make some minimum for the lives of the individual needed. We can't do that because we have different regional development and many other problems, but it's important that we have that in mind, simply as a need to respect the right to housing. Does this bill consistently respect this right? I don't think so, for one next reason. So far, the bonds that lived in their apartment have been entitled to a 40% tax credit, and for each additional household member with whom they lived another 50% reduction to the established annual amount of property tax. So the difference is whether a tenant, owner or a four-member, five-member family lived in the apartment. Now a different solution is proposed. If the obligor lives in the apartment, his tax liability will be reduced by 50%, but the reduction cannot be more than 50,000 dinars. What does that mean in practice? That means 50% will actually be a reduction only when that obligation is equal to 10,000 dinars. In one word, if the tax liability exceeds 20,000 dinars per year, the percentage of housing-based reductions will decrease. This solution can lead to several practical problems and injustices above all in central Belgrade municipalities where the price of real estate is higher, I mean, of course, Stari Grad, Sava Venac, Vračar, part of Loznica, part of Stararija and part of New Belgrade. For example, in case there are no depreciations, when no depreciation rules are applied, if someone bought a 100-square apartment last year, its annual tax liability will be around 800 euros. If he lives in an apartment, he'd have to pay only 100 euros less. I stress, this is about new apartments, those where the amortisation rule is not applied and where there is no application of the second provision of the law proposed by these amendments and amendments, which is that the new 2011 tax solution cannot be greater than 60% compared to the previous year. Since these are, let's say, new apartments don't have a previous solution. Is it politically and socially justified that someone who lives alone in a 100 square-square apartment with a four-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-family is equally burdened with taxes? Regardless of the concept approach of the prime minister and the ministry, I understood that property tax is not a social category and that it should not respect the social category but is a legal category. Therefore, it should be the right to invest, that everyone has the right to live in a certain part of his apartment and in some way to establish that fact. It seems to me that this kind of solution can achieve unfair effects. First of all, this is not supported by family. In particular, it is not supported by the right to live in the case of a multi-member family and it would not be good to get the impression that we support young single households in a situation where the demands of our demographic policies are exactly the opposite. So, when policies in the field of supporting family and children, we must actually promote family life. I think it's at least partially indecisive, but in part these demands must also be taken into account when creating tax obligations on property. In addition, it seems unfair to me that there is no difference between whether anyone has five apartments ready to betray or has only one apartment to live in. I think the difference between the tax obligations of such taxpayers must be taken into account. In addition, I think tax policy must be consistent with other policies, let's say policy in the area of construction. In recent years, we have significantly encouraged construction and investment in investment and real estate. If this larger tax burden is indeed such, it may have some negative effects on the real estate market, primarily in major cities or in Belgrade. In that sense, I want to say that we want to encourage housing, so the real estate market, new apartments, etc. Then it would be good to find some mechanisms to encourage the construction and purchase of new apartments. It would be a good idea to establish such mechanisms, because as founders of new companies and businesses, people who take loans invest in their savings and part of their incomes and thus contribute to the development of this society. It is certain that those with more assets need more income tax. So, those who have multiple apartments, who buy apartments for publishing, but not those who live in their only apartment. I don't think there's a difference between us in the attitude that we have to protect those who are the poorest. This bill does so because it provides for a very gradual increase in tax obligations through the provision that exactly 2011 the tax cannot be more than 60% of the tax found in 2010. Citizens may be concerned about what these solutions will look like in early 2012. It is certain that on taxes we have to put the most burden on the richest, but especially through all the other primary forms of tax. I think we need to be careful when in years of crisis some major tax procedures we can also compromise the middle-class family budget. It is known that the strength of one society to get out of the crisis and to develop largely depends on the power of that medium layer, its willingness to invest, to develop, to develop others, to invest in consumption, to develop entrepreneurship and thus create conditions to improve the economic life of the whole community. I think that along with some amendments that are submitted, we will allow us to come up with the best solutions and to preserve the best solutions in this law, and perhaps to define ourselves to preserve some of the solutions that have proved to be good so far. I believe that through a debate in particular, we will have the opportunity to discuss this more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49324	Thank you. National MP Zoran Mašić has a word. There are nine and a half available to your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49325	As a recent member of the Committee on Biotechnical Sciences, I would like to commend the Ministry of Science and the Government, at the beginning, that it has allocated significantly greater funding to finance scientific research. Since the new scientific research cycle begins from 1 January 2011 and a large number of projects will include a large number of young researchers, I think it is something to be welcomed and what is good for this country. However, my intention today is to speak more about what this government has not done well, and first of all I want to talk about the government's relationship to the agrarian in this country and the agrarian budget. Unfortunately, I have to realize that this government has an extremely irresponsible, not to use any other word, a relationship to the agrarian, considering exactly the ratio of the allocated funds to stimulate agricultural production in our country in these past years. Madam Minister, I have said about the debate on budget rebalancing, while participating in the debate, what is the requirement of a large number of associations of agricultural producers and associations precisely in terms of increasing the agrarian budget that would create preconditions for our agricultural production to be more competitive and that at the moment of obtaining EU candidate status we will be more respectable in this area of economy and get more funding. I honestly expected you to respect it, and first of all, the whole government has this fact, and you're going to allocate a lot more resources than they've been allocated. Dear agricultural producers, I will now officially inform you how isolated it is for the area of agricultural production through the so-called agricultural budget, i.e. division of 19th in this draft budget. In total, 32,593,228,000 dinars were singled out. If these funds are put against the total budget and that part is 3.66%. But this 32 billion is just over 10 billion, and that's the Ministry of Agriculture's own funds, so basically what this government stands out for agrar is 22 billion and 33 million. If it's put against the total budget, it's only 22.56%. However, 22 billion dinars are not primarily used for subsidisation, the most direct subsidisation of agricultural production, but these are funds of 16.815,357,000, meaning what is defined by the Agency for Agricultural Payments within the Ministry of Agriculture. It was the agency that was founded last year to pay subsidies to agricultural producers. This amount assigned to this agency when put against the total budget is 1.87%, something that this country singles out to subsidise agricultural production, the most direct subsidy. I know you might be replicating the ministers and saying it's 20 billion. It's not 20 billion, because some other things are subsidized, not just what is direct production. He's subsidizing directly. What were various associations and agricultural producers looking for? I'll just mention some and read it. First of all, the Management Board and the Committee on Agriculture of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which proposed as much as 10% detached from the budget for this year, the Association for Agriculture of the Vojvodine Chamber of Commerce demanded 5% separation, the Association of Farmers of Serbia 5%, the Business Association of Vojvodina agrarians 5%, the Association of Farmers of Vojvodina 5%, the Central Association of Milk Manufacturers of Vojvodina requested 5%, the Association of Milkers of Serbia demanded 5-7%, the Union of Farmers of the Sword and Srema asked even 5-10% to be allocated to the agrarian budget, the Association of Serbia also requested this percentage of the separation, and Regional Secretary Daniel Petrovic asked from 35 to 38 billion to be an agrarian budget. Resore Minister Dragin has been in more places over the past two months to make the agrarian budget minimum 5%. At the same time, you define these same farmers with this budget about 2.5% or a little bit more. I think this government and some resolution ministers will suffer the consequences and responsibility for this relationship with the agrarian. I will read to you something that has come to me from these associations of Vojvodina Farmers' Associations on the Management Board and the Supervisory Board held in Novi Sad on 10.12. this year has reached several conclusions. I will only read one, and that is that a unanimous decision has been made to target the activities of the association towards reaching the height of the agrarian budget of 5% of the state budget or 40 billion. The following measures are proposed to be implemented in the future to achieve budget levels, the first organisation of meetings within each association of members of the association to define clear and constructive proposals in order to achieve budget levels. Secondly, to request reception and negotiations in the RS government and with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Running a media campaign with strong messages "sow half or nothing to have more". Slaughter all the breeding throats of cows and sows. Organisation of public gatherings and protests in the next 10 days. The four unions of agricultural producers Srema and Mačva began on December 6th – the voice of the people for the larger agricultural budget and collect signatures in Novi Sad, Ruma, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica, Pančeva, Loznica, Arilja, etc., with the aim of informing the government in fact or to define the Government and the National Assembly to stop underestimating agriculture by giving the farmer, the largest food producer the least. In the last 10 years, the peasant has failed more than once, and no one has given him any help. When stocking factories fail, the new boss gets 10,000 euros per employee to encourage production. So they won't be able to order any more farmers and say no more wonder the food is expensive. The state allocates 20 euros per capita. We are looking for an urgent meeting with President Boris Tadic, who is asking everyone how to avoid any ugly scenario later on through our demands. I think this is something that's warning and will surely produce implications. From this place I call upon all those who have asked for this kind of budget, and it has not been given to advertise and to feel once in the right sense the real strength of those people who are engaged in agricultural production. The situation in agricultural production is desperate. I don't have time anymore, unfortunately, but there will be an opportunity, there will be an amendment, just to read about the situation in livestock farming and how much the number per animal species has been reduced. President, if you'll excuse me, it'll take 30 seconds. The number of cattle and cows and stellar June 2008 was 1,270,000, respectively. Number of cows 817, and in 2009, the number of cows is 586,000. It's down almost 350,000. The number of pigs was 4,066,000 in 2008 and 3,600,000 in 2009. There were 877,000 dumplings, and now that's 477,000. Not to waste any more time, this is data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. It's a document that I got and they prepared. To this alarming state, the state needs to show more seriousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49326	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49327	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but above all respected citizens of Serbia, most of my DS colleagues gave a very good comprehensive review of this budget, the reasons why this budget is being passed. We do not view the global economic crisis as an excuse nor as an excuse for what is happening in Serbia and the world economy, but the fact is that at the time of the election campaign, no political party in Serbia, nor could the DS have predicted the coming global economic crisis, which was just being prepared and rushed, whose outlines have not yet been monitored and of course we have a budget that looks at Serbia's opportunities, Serbia's needs, the real situation in the world, and how this situation on the world economy and the world economy reflects on the economy and on the economy of RS. It's not an excuse or an excuse. It's a fact. Whoever is in power in Serbia, would have the same problems this government has regarding economic problems, social problems, which concern major unemployment. However, today I attended a debate where I had to wonder who the Social Democratic Party is here and who stands for the values of the social democratic ideas in Serbia and I must say that I am surprised because in the election campaign I hear and see an election programme, an election idea of certain political parties. I see quite the opposite of what is said in this room. I'm particularly surprised by the fact that now one of these two cameramen would walk around the hall for Serbian citizens to see who is sitting or not sitting in the hall, who is all of the political parties present in the hall. Citizens of Serbia, do you know of any political party sitting here, one of the people sitting in this room who hasn't tried himself in power. Is there anyone who can say, "I'm sorry, we didn't have a position and an opportunity to say and show what we know, how much we know, and how much we're worth?" There isn't one of them. To ask those who know so well today from the opposition's position to criticise the government – what was their impact? I think we'd turn this debate in one completely unwanted direction. We could give many who were in power to give white paper and say that until this debate is over, and it takes 10 hours, write on white paper what you did well during your term, and they will return empty white paper because they have nothing to say. Now that we're in opposition, there's a lot better way to look at all mistakes, see certain dangers, see the reasons why the government has to act like this. It shows that it's good for them to be in opposition, because they've finally seen it. In about 15 years, they'll have some concrete ideas and it's very good for them, but I say, it's good for the government, that the opposition criticises the government. I don't even expect the opposition to support the budget. They can support certain items in the budget. The opposition is trying to bring down the government. The problem is that with us, the opposition leads to the fact that it has to say all the time – a solution to all the economic problems, for all the social problems, for the economic problems lies, where? In our return to power. Gentlemen of the opposition at the beginning of my presentation, I reminded myself that most of you, in the near and recent past, have had the opportunity to exercise power, to show what they know, how much they are worth, how much reach they have. We've seen the consequences of that and that kind of policy. I'd like to remind you once again, there's a fairy tale, although it's no time for fairy tales, about a boy who's watched the moon all his life from his backyard. One day he was very angry that he couldn't throw a stone at the moon, because the moon didn't shine as much as he wanted, so he threw the moon with a stone. Then he discovered that the moon could shoot, and when the moon looked in the water at the nearby lake. He kept throwing rocks, and he was glad he hit the moon. He was always amazed that he was shooting stars, hitting stars and moons. Then he waited for the day to light up, so he hit the sun and was happy that it hit the sun, because it didn't shine as much as he wanted to shine. We can't act like we live in a fairy tale. We can't throw stones at the stars or the moon. We need to look at that picture that we see in Serbia's economic situation clearly, that we define it and say that we may have hundreds of holes right now, and we close those hundreds of holes with ten fingers. Maybe one of those big holes we can't close. He can't close this budget either. Maybe citizens' expectations are high. On the other hand, there are certain segments that Mrs Vuckovic spoke of that can and should succumb to the appropriate criticism. Maybe we'll support some amendments. We'll consider and listen to these amendments. The task and opposition and positions are to propose amendments to the budget, and to look together at how far the budget's reach is and what else it can heal, where it can still be saved, to save, where we can behave more rationally, more responsible, smarter, and where there's really nothing left to drain out of dry drenina as our people say it. When we finally measure, look and see, we'll have a budget that won't be an election budget. As much as any of the opposition threatens to organise, I don't know how and what, to make elections happen, regular elections will be in 2012 and that will be the election budget. Next year in this room, you will also propose amendments to that budget. Those who announce the great rallys, after which they will bring us down, I must remind them, held a rally in Kruševec on Vidovdan, so they experienced a fiasco. After that fiasco, they haven't recovered in half a year. Now they're going to hold a big rally again in January. The opposition's mission is to try to bring down the government, too, because nothing is achieved by force. On the other hand, the government is stable in this parliament. You'll see that when you vote and this budget, and the next one in 2011, and if you keep thinking like that, probably for a long time. On the other hand, for the end, I have to say, it's necessary for citizens to tell the full truth. We still have difficult years ahead of us, and you can see it through this budget, but they're not uncertain years. As a man, I'm always willing to give up something, if I know that this denial will be meaningful and that this denial in the next period will make it a better life if the citizens of this country live better, but above all, if the children of this country will live better. That's what I want to finish. Every man who lives in Serbia, including citizens who watch this transmission, if normal, has only one ambition and one wish, that his children live better than before. Our task is to ensure that our children live better than we do, that they do not have the uncertainty, fears and fears that we have survived, and at the same time, that they do not have to repay the disproportionate and reckless debts that we have made. On the other hand, we must take care of every part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and of Kosovo, of Vojvodina and of central Serbia and, accordingly, of such a budget and we are planning, predicting, not giving up any part of our territory and we want to enable and provide for Serbia's children to live better and happier in the future than we do through other laws. I urge you to support the better life of our children by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49328	MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49329	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I regret that the prime minister is not here because we would have to ask him a lot of questions about the budget and the basic idea of the leader of economic policy, which is even openly stated in the budget's reasoning, which is that the EU has no alternative and is the main objective of our economic policy, i.e. Yours, that economic policy is being led in order to join the EU as quickly as possible. In this respect, and in the budget as recently as in other laws, the so-called so-called a statement on the compliance of the budget with EU regulations or with Aki communiqué. I am now asking the Government and the Minister present – how it is possible for the 2011 budget to be aligned with the Aki Communitre, i.e. with EU right, if it is well known and it is generally known that the EU has not adopted the 2011 budget? To make the scandal even bigger, it was the first budget after the Lisbon Treaty to be passed under the new rules. You are referring to EU rules and regulations, and the same EU is unable to bring the 2011 budget and parts, and you certainly know that, the 2010 budget, for 2011 month by month. It is one absurdity and there is no excuse for it, except in this phrase that the EU has no alternative. Also, as far as the legal part of this statement of compliance with Aki communiqué is concerned, I will remind you, and that is unclear for us from the SRS, whether the Republic wants it and aims as it stated in the budget's explanation that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is being adopted by the same procedure as that of the EU? What does that mean, and we don't need to deceive our citizens? It means that the Assembly will only ask itself, it will have a decisive decision on non-binding expenditure. It's a democratic deficit, to say the least. It is not something that has anything to do with democracy, with the role of the Assembly as a legislative body. You also know for a fact that in the EU, parliament has a role to play, and I quote it from people who deal with Aki communiqué, to be a spokeswoman for the Council of Ministers when adopting the budget. The EU Council of Ministers plays a major role in budgeting, not parliament. If this is the goal of the Republic of Serbia, if this policy is that the EU has no alternative, that the Assembly is not asked at all about budgeting, then it should be made clear and clear and it will be clear what goal we are pursuing in the economic and legal objective. I will not continue to deal with this subject, I will not quote experts for Aki communiqué who say that the European Parliament does not have any legislative authority in relation to the European Council and the Council of Ministers, but I will focus on concrete numbers, on the figure in the first part of the budget, which states that the revenue from customs will be around 372m euros in 2011, if I have calculated well according to this current course. That's even less than the rebalancing we almost adopted, less by about 8.5%. So customs revenues fall at a time when the economic crisis, which even the prime minister admitted at his still level that cannot be ignored. What does that mean exactly? If you compare to the year 2009 and then the customs revenue, so I took the year in which the economic crisis was already in place, you will conclude that every year, because of the application of the transitional trade agreement, we lose to customs in the budget about 100m euros. It's a fact that no one can dispute. What could be done with these 100m euros we give the EU? First of all, it could raise childcare costs for 100%, subsidies for agriculture could rise by 50%, for rail 75%, otherwise there are 20,000 people, for pensions, expenditures could increase by 20%, subsidies and expenditure for cities and municipalities by over 100%, subsidies to the economy, which is extremely important, even ten times. It could also, for example, improve the work of the foreign ministry, at the moment we are fighting for KIM and the publication for the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is increased by 150%. However, since the government obviously adheres to these phrases that the EU has no alternative, we will, instead of in such a good way, raise the social level of our expenditures, raise standards, raise our diplomatic activities, our agriculture and everything that makes one serious country, we will transfer the EU, which, you will admit, is especially its western part, much, much richer than the Republic of Serbia. You, as a professor of economics, must know about the famous Parent's efficiency. It seems to me that this budget is exactly what it shows, that while I'm paraphrasing, the expenditures don't rise by one piece, the worse it's going to be for another part. So it can't be good for both the EU and Serbia. It's the basis of this budget. You are in fact funding the EU, social peace in the EU, at the expense of our citizens, our students and employees in public enterprises, and of course, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you another example that confirms my claims. For 2011, the Office for European Integration is scheduled to raise the issue by 100% or over a million euros. At the same time, some 700,000 euros are forecasted for the health ministry. So it is more important for us that for one office dealing primarily with the propaganda activity of the EU in the Republic of Serbia, it sets out one million euros at the time of the economic crisis, rather than, for example, to target those who need it most, and these are sick in our society and all those whose expenditures are transferred by the Ministry of Health. It's a scandal and it's due to the fact that so-called. The EU has no alternative. That's a confession to make. Also, while expenditures are rising 100% for the EU's Association Office, 15m euros are reduced for the ministry of justice. How is that possible? Are our courts more important to us, are we more concerned with these standards that are so much talked about in the judiciary or are we more concerned with the EU Association Office, where, in line with IPA funds, we are working on projects such as, quote, training our country for a European integration programme, training our customs, which loses 100m euros per year for transit of goods from the EU and for supporting civil society, whatever it means in practice? What is the consequence of this policy that the EU has no alternative? That's what you say in the last part of the budget. You say, and that is absolutely correct, that the external trade deficit will be around eight billion euros next year. I am responsibly arguing and calling for government data, official data, that over four billion euros will go to the EU from Serbia, not vice versa, because it is precisely because of the phrase that the EU has no alternative, over 56% of foreign trade is taking place with the EU. So that's a fact. Four billion euros will be transferred from Republika Srpska to the EU next year. We can talk about IPA funds, we can talk about the various loans we receive from the EU, but there is an argument that knocks out that story about the EU, which is, again, in the budget, a loan from the European Investment Bank to the "Tables of Serbia", with an interest of 8%. That's scandalous. 8% interest, that's the interest rate. There's no dispute here. The second credit to us from the European Investment Bank for "Serb Railways" is over 8%. And it's a scandal and it's a loan interest. The third loan also from the friendly German development bank KfW is over 6%. I'll just let you know that there's a lot less interest, for example. In a loan you concluded with the Russian Federation. You'll see that this is about interest rates and that they're not friendly terms for credit. In the end, you must have seen that your colleague, Prime Minister Orban in Hungary, resolved the deficit, not entirely, but taxed financial organisations, foreign banks and all those who have a monopoly in Hungary, which is still in worse shape in the Republic of Serbia. So, tax the so-called. Domestic banks, which is not true in the budget that these are banks, like Erste, Intesa. Tax Miskovic, tax all those who do not allow the burden of the economic crisis to be evenly divided. In that sense, you must know, and we stand for it, for the roles theory, John Rolls of Harvard, who claims that the social well-being of a society is equal to that social well-being that has the poorest layer in that society. This is a real indicator, not GDP, which will reportedly grow by 1.5%, not the EU phrase, that there is no alternative, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49330	National MP Branka Ljiljak has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49331	President-in-Office, members of the presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before my presentation, I would like to point out one wonderful opportunity for me today, that for the first time in my life, I cannot remember whether the Prime Minister was at a budget debate and I think this is a good opportunity and that today he has honored all MPs because we are still working together on the same job and we need to discuss these proposals together. We have before us a draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 and a set of accompanying laws to help fill the revenue side of the budget. The income is getting the budget. The total amount of 802.9 billion dinars was planned, up by 9.8% compared to 2010. The expenditures and expenditures are planned at 8.98.8 billion dinars, representing a deficit of 93.9 billion dinars. We also need to add 26.5 billion dinars defined for the purchase of financial assets to implement public policies. So, the total budget deficit for 2011 is 120.5 billion dinars. This should now be put in the context of the recently established fiscal rule and the law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. This budget applies this fiscal rule and in this context is also a deficit, but it is a good and responsible policy that I think should continue next year because the target deficit for 2011 is 4.1% of GDP. In order for this target deficit to reach or at least to approach this number that I just told you in 2011, it must be done to adapt public spending, and it will be supported by the following measures on the bulky side of the budget. The budget envisions the harmonisation of salaries and pensions in the public sector, starting in January 2011, and will then be co-ordinated in April and October. Harmonisation will be at a small percentage at the beginning, and if industrial production and at all economy has a visible recovery in 2011, as we all expect, coordination will give greater effects. I don't agree with some discussions that these are small percentages, that it won't have any effect. I must stress that pensions are regular, that every increase is significant, no matter how nominal it is. It should be paid attention, that the citizens of Serbia, and I think they know it and that they support it. Local self-government transfers will also increase by 23.8%. There was a lot of discussion about local self-government, the fact that transfers were reduced, which was conditioned by the crisis. This is a significant shift for local self-government to reach that level since 2008, which I think will happen. Besides this, I would point out that local self-government can compete with IPO funds. We have the possibility of competing with two components of IPO funds. The total funds for the first component are approximately 13 billion dinars, which I don't think are small funds at all and should be paid attention to. The second component of IPO funds is so called. cross-border co-operation is available at 25m euros in all eight programmes. In order for local self-government to be ready to withdraw these funds should have ready projects and provided funding for co-financing. Here I agree with my colleague Nesovic, who said municipalities that are unable to write their own projects now have a fund from which they can get the necessary funds. I would add that the constant conference of cities is the same as it is able to help local self-government to train, if they are not able, and these opportunities should be used. The possibility of increasing income to local self-government gives the Property Tax Act. This is now the original income of local self-government. By downloading data from the tax administration, each local self-government has the opportunity to decide at what rate it will charge the property tax itself. The state gives the upper limit to which it can go, and any local self-government, in accordance with its capabilities, can make the same rates that correspond to it, or which correspond to the citizens who live in it. On this occasion, I would draw attention to tax collection, to make sure that we take care of the amount of taxes and the opportunities of the people who pay, that it can be charged. The local self-government that I come from, which is Zrenjanin, was doing a field census this summer to get to the database, which would be as close to the real state as possible, and with the aim of covering all the bonds. Subsidies remained at the 2010 level. However, businesses or owners of small or medium-sized enterprises can also use tax reliefs that can replace some of the resources they lack. They are easier to use if they invest in basics in the employment of young people, and trainees, as well as those over 45 years of life. On this occasion, I would still appeal to privates, entrepreneurs and owners to make sure that young people are unemployed, that there is a relief here that can give them some benefits. In keeping with the fact that there are over 45 people on the Bureau in quite a number of years and that they should also be given the opportunity to end their working days and to go on a well - deserved pension. They also make it easier to buy the first apartment. That's not a negligible number either. I must also point out that tax exemptions or loans lead to tax expenditures, amounting to 20.8 billion for 2011. It must therefore be understood that some taxes must be increased in order to replace the income deficit. As in this year's budget, i.e. for 2010, the adjustment measures are now also limits in the implementation of expenditure on goods and services, which I support, as well as other so-called ". discretionary expenses. The austerity measures should continue and this budget should be implemented. I'd like to mention at the end of the social benefits that have increased and amounted to about 88 billion dinars. The government is also conducting responsible social policy through this budget. Finally, I would add that I, as an MP of the DS and Parliament Club, will also support the draft budget law, as well as the accompanying laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49332	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, vice president, Gordani Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49333	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to earn your attention in the next few minutes, explaining how and from my point of view the facts of the budget, the perception of the budget, and what assessment I have of how people who live in Serbia, Serbian citizens who follow this session or listen to media reports on budgeting, what is their position on what is the topic of our work here. Facts about the budget. Just one sentence that is undeniable, which is that in 30 months of this government, which some of us support, some of us do not, seven budgets have been passed and that practically one budget cycle lasts four months, which tells very much to everyone about what it means by public finance rules, and yet does not slow down that these rules have to include government policy that brings budgets, what it means to the government, what it means to the Assembly, what it means to society as a whole. If only those figures were the data, each of us that essentially deals with budgets will tell, once this is all a couple of rows in some readers, so it's a very crisis time and a very difficult economic situation. What else is the fact about the budget? I was pleased to announce it by Minister Diana Dragutinovic, with as much knowledge as I have about the way the budgets are made and kept in hands and in the head of the budgets that were made from 2001 to today, and budgets and budget rebalances. This is from the point of view of theory the best budget that has been made, probably the one Serbia has seen. This does not mean that I praise the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I simply believe that in our country there is too little to say what a good word of knowledge, about skills, about the profession, about the profession that has been invested in some kind of public sector work being done. I know it's not just Secretary Dragutinovic's credit, but I think it's clear to her that my assessment is going, of course, to the credit of the whole team. These are indisputable facts about the budget. What's the perception of the budget? The perception of the budget is created or created on the basis of less – more topics from discussions that we have heard here and here, which is all legitimate and legal, but very often has nothing to do with the facts about the budget. Policy as a job is that the public, both domestic and foreign, will deal with more perceptions of the budget than will deal with the facts of the budget. It is the sector in which opposition parties always enter, trying to make this perception worse by the ruling majority. It's the work of the opposition, but this job is only good if it doesn't ignore the facts, which, unfortunately, did not happen during today's debate. In the course of the debate we heard more about budget abuses, which is a great topic, but we are talking about the 2011 budget, we are not talking about what disadvantages and the fact that we did not have a debate on the final account or individual abuses. It's a lack of knowledge. If we want to create a perception that only in Serbia is misused in the budget, that some evil people, irresponsible people sitting in government, in local self-government, in any public sector, are a bad strategy. I, as members of the ruling majority, can be glad that the opposition in such a way, with a bad strategy criticises the budget, but I'm not glad because it's a bad perception for the country I work for and that I don't think we all feel divided by our general interest in living as well as possible in that country as soon as possible. 'We had a recital about the new government, we had discussions about reforming the pension system. Very little in a few discussions, essentially, the facts about the budget. Bad strategy, I repeat. I'm sorry, because it's not good for all of us. It is easier for a ruling majority member to defend the budget and cover even what he would criticise, which I will not do, but the perception of the budget, if I am an opposition party, must be based on the facts of the budget. He can't lie. You can see it very quickly or you can easily deny it. What's the only line I'm going to use on the context of the budget that I'm trying to talk about facts and perceptions? The global economic crisis, financial collapse and economic collapse that took place in 2008, in a single sentence, I don't want to see anyone going down because there was an economic crisis somewhere else. I don't want to say what would happen if it were, but we can't ignore the fact that the crisis happened. What is the essence of this crisis? What we saw in Serbia with Jazda and Dafin, the pyramidal banks. That's the point, only with a lot more zeroes and effects on the whole world. What else did we see? We saw the same thing we saw in Serbia in 1993 with a clean printing of money on Topcider, only now it's not called printing of money but it's government bonds, but it's essentially a very, very similar thing. The EU budget, i.e. the total income of the gross domestic product, so to speak, is 115 000 billion. 4500 billion euros have entered the rescue of the EU economy. That's not what happened in Serbia in the 1990s. In Serbia, inflation occurred in the 1990s, and each inflation serves to rob its own population. We understand all of this, and all of these are things that we can't erase, and that's the last thing I'm going to mention when it comes to the economic crisis. We have to make budgets, do business, try to keep the social cohesion of the budget in a new context that is just being created, and after financial and economic collapse. Who's to blame? Who's responsible? Do we have any influence? Interesting questions, but not productive? You either have a solution for your little country or you don't. Everything else is just speculation. What, in the end, is the fact that I wish I had heard more often here during the debate? What is the budget of every country? The amount of money in which there is a rule that you collect money from everyone, according to some rules that are the profession, but also politics, and money is paid only to some, according to the rules of the profession, but also to politics. What's our job? It is our job to know how much money and how many rules we can collect from everyone in Serbia and coma, and to make that money the best possible. According to some rules, we need to give permission to get that money paid. When I simplify it like this, it sounds like the knowledge that every host in Serbia knows. I believe that budgets are not some great wisdom, unless there is a deliberate fog around the budget, and that is a fundamental topic that I wish we were more concerned with – is the Ministry of Finance, did the RS Government well set how to raise money? Is it a good fiscal policy, is it a good amount of income, did they get a good estimate of who they took the money from, did they get a good estimate of the consequences? In this place, I will return to the questionnaire that we received from the EU a few weeks ago. One of the questions in the EU questionnaire is: what is the fiscal analysis? We fiscal analysis of the laws we don't have. That's the context in which we bring a new budget. That's the facts. We can argue that this, the responsible one, is not going to help the fact that we fiscal analysis for laws don't do it, because we haven't learned how to do it so far, no one has made us do it. Now we're gonna have to. That's why the questionnaire is good, and that's why fiscal analysis will be, not just about how you collect money from everyone, but for all the laws. That's a good rule, in my opinion. What else is interesting about our discussion when it comes to facts? We haven't actually talked about how money is being raised, and where it's supposed to be that money that we're going to raise, and we haven't, in essence, talked about who needs money to be paid and by what rules. Some two topics have been singled out, which is media, which is true, because the novelty in relation to the previous rules is how money is collected from everyone, so it's only given to some. The first changes and additions are property taxes and changes and additions of VAT to computers, computer parts, fruit and tourist services. This has become a theme for many reasons. What is my hope for the next budget, except that it will come to the Assembly on November 1st, and I strongly recommend the Ministerial Finance to schedule a cabinet session for November 1, 2011, I know exactly the reasons for the delays, which is that ministers postpone their plans, waiting for the last moment. There are several ways to get rid of it as a manners. The first is that you know that a country that changes such a phase has to go through, it can't go any other way. The second is to make a budget, schedule a session, and then the other members of the government will very soon request that the session be cancelled, and then come. It looks like a joke, but we'll all see in a year here, no one else will be around to laugh. The question of how you collect money from everyone is the most interesting question from the budget. The topics I wanted to offer, by commenting on property taxes and changes and VAT supplements, is – let's open a debate on some other tax laws, to see this fiscal policy in some other places. Why? Because the moment that I, as a national MP, am using the most powerful means that I have been given, which is, "I'm not voting for this until we see an agreement on amendments." I have the view that what has been offered has been misjudged and that we need an agreement on how we can better assess how to raise funds from everyone, which we will only give to some. That's what the Assembly is for, and it's a process that's been going on for a few days here, trying to agree as if we can agree on our pictures of what the fiscal regulations are producing that these want to change. Of course, I immediately offer and what we can talk about in the field of collection, and what has been discussed in Serbia. For example, a tax on money that has churches and religious communities. Every time I tried to run that topic, I didn't have a conversation. "Don't talk about it." Why? "No church pays taxes anywhere." That's not true. "It's awkward because churches don't have income." That's not true. So I allow you to convince me that churches and religious communities should not be in the fiscal system, I allow ahead. I'm someone who thinks the brain is only good when it works like a parachute, i.e. when it's always open. I'm ready for you to tell me in the end -- I don't need to, but let's have a debate about it, let's compare attitudes. Don't be prejudiced to keep one topic out of the public when it comes to tax collection. Secondly, which could also have been a topic, is a tax on financial transactions, which we have abolished. We've cut the VAT on computers. We've made an 8% decision in this system, so now we're raising it. I didn't hear an argument why we couldn't introduce a tax on financial transactions and there should be dialogue about it. This may seem to be an extra debate for you later. It's not. Because if some amendments pass, if we find an agreement, we may be missing some amount from the revenue side, and then I in advance for January, if there are discussions, I am running for several sectors that can discuss tax hikes or tax introductions, when it comes to financial transactions. We have a VAT that's been prescribed for lawyers, but that's not happening, the fiscal cash registers for lawyers aren't happening. Why do I mention these things? Because it's politics. Because that's where you see the budget being made. Anyone with a strong enough interest group, all legal and legitimate, to protect their interest, will be protected. What are we doing here and why am I against politics, even though I do know that the introduction of property taxes is so impeccable? But it's not just about the profession. It's about who's gonna pay that money. It's just that I don't have a tax on property for the past year. It is my guess that it is below 60% and that it is different in Serbia's territory, that Vojvodina pays 85%, that it pays Belgrade 80%, other parts of Serbia do not pay. Will we, by making up for the increase in property tax, essentially make up for the fact that no part of the executive government in Serbia is working? Because when it didn't collect the income, it didn't work. Is that a situation or isn't it? We need a dialogue on that. Who's actually going to get hit by a tax hike? The bottom layer of something that was or is it still middle class? Someone who has 25,000 dinars per head of a member of his household? He's gonna get shot, she's gonna get hit by that tax. It's politics and then the waist has to be with me in the dialogue, when he tells me -- but otherwise he can't, I say -- well, but that's not the policy I would vote for, that's not the policy they voted for. That's why the amendments are here, and that's why we need a dialogue on everything. The tax on VAT increases, the only thing that made me laugh is that I heard from one of the ministry's authorities, that it has to 18% on computers, it has to go bigger on fruits and seas on tourist services and then give an explanation - so that we don't increase VAT on food, which I don't think fruit is food. A little more careful with the statements, that would be good for everyone. When it comes to my final assessment of perceptions and facts and reactions of citizens, in a few sentences – what is the citizens' reaction? We bring the budget to Serbia in 2011 where people are mostly concerned, angry and when you tell them the budget, then it's their first association -- it's something that those from the government and the Assembly spend. If anyone thinks they'll benefit from such perception, I must share with you my deep confidence that they will never, ever benefit from any perception that the budget is something that those of the Government and those of the Assembly spend. Can those of the government and we of the Assembly save? Of course. Are we saving? Of course. Is there an abuse? We talk about it at the session when there's an auditor's report. But my appeal in the end, precisely because of the experience of people who expect something from that budget, that criticism by us who support the government of the Republic of Serbia and by the opposition, which, of course, does not support, must be more carefully broken, precisely because of the people that we all sit here for. Influence your demagogue on and such frightened people who lost their jobs, who don't know if they'll get a job, who now think that the property tax will definitely eat all their apartments, that tycoons will come into neighborhoods to pay and buy apartments, I don't know which of them could benefit. I saw the effects of demagogy of that kind and I didn't see anyone benefiting from the fact of the budget, because of everything that is yet to happen in Serbia with the 2012 budget. With a desire to bring the interests of the profession and politics into line, when it comes to amendments, and when it comes to the government's position on what it can't do or what it can do, I will end up with the first sentence, which is that in 30 months this government has brought seven budgets, of which are budgets that have been brought into the world's economic crisis, the breakdown and the formation of a new financial and economic system on the planet. It is not a small achievement to be assessed as a country with fiscal responsibility in the region and as a country that has managed to preserve itself from bankruptcy and excessive breakdowns in all sectors of society. My offer is not to devalue our own successes. It's not just this government's success, it's the success of all of us living in Serbia. Thank you for your attention. I hope we can agree on a few amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49334	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49335	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, exactly a month ago on the agenda of the National Assembly's session was a debate on budget rebalancing for 2010, as 107 billion originally planned deficits turned out to be not enough, but had to be defined by law by a higher deficit of 120.1 billion. Here, tonight we are having a debate on the draft budget law for 2011. Tonight, a video will be broadcast on TV and this is an opportunity to thank the Minister of Finance and the entire Government for the generosity they have made available to us for four days – Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday to read the Bill of 1,000 pages and today we are talking about it. The remaining 114 parties concern decisions on granting consent to the PIO Fund, the Republic Health Insurance and National Employment Services which were not correct, and we were subsequently presented with new texts of the financial plans. And this year it continued with the practice of long-running government ministers' struggle over budgets, and finally the fight with the finance minister. Due to such a long struggle by ministers, MPs are at the disposal of minimum time to prepare for the budget debate. It is no accident that the International Institute for the Openness of the OBI budget has placed Serbia among the countries that provide some information on the budget, but to an insufficient extent that it would be fully understood and that the executive authority would be subject to the necessary changes. According to the OBI survey, Serbia has 54 points and shares 36th place with Ghana. Parliamentary monitoring of the budget has been assessed as mediocre due to a lack of time to discuss budget and undeveloped practice to discuss the budget on assembly committees where opinion could also be given by representatives of the public. What should not have happened in any case was the merger of the debate on the draft budget with the other draft laws that we are now having a united debate, and in particular it is illogical, out of every sense that the same debate also discusses amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. The budget is the most important document of economic policy, but it must not be underestimated the importance of amending the Law on PIO. This is at least a theft of time, on the one hand, for MPs to talk about these important laws in the regular time provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and on the other, the old ruling coalition is stealing time and Serbia's citizens to hear mainly from the opposition MPs what is written in these drafts of the law and what awaits them. It is obvious that the intention to amend the Law on PIO remains in the shadow of the debate on the budget, as everything proposed to them goes to the detriment of citizens. He talked about it, a colleague of Jeremic's. I hope there's time to say something else. Given that most of 126 can do anything, this basic document of economic policy will be adopted as it is written, and of course it is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The forecast deficit is 12.5 billion dinars. Much more funds will be spent again than will be added to the budget. However, we would not be surprised at the fact that during 2011, it turns out that it is not enough and that this amount must be higher. It is planned to make 724.4 billion dinars in 2011, which is 64.8 billion more than in the current 2010. This plan is unrealistic. Because although we hear daily representatives of the government that Serbia is coming out of the economic crisis, it simply does not correspond to the actual state. Although you will be increasing the value added tax for the South, personal computers and their components, hotel accommodation services, motels, resorts, homes and camps from the beginning of next year, although you will increase excise duties, it is unlikely that revenues will be achieved in the planned amount because Serbia's economy is in very poor shape and most citizens also live in too many difficult conditions and fight daily for survival. With this increase you will only make less available citizens mentioned products and services and you will achieve the opposite effect of what you have imagined. As for expenditure, it is planned to spend 844.9 billion in 2011, which is 65.2 billion more than in the current 2010. Half of the total expenditure, exactly 50.59% or expressed in money 427.5 billion, is the cost of employees and transfers to the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance. When we look at current expenditures, we see that 55.1 billion are planned for subsidies and 88.7 billion for social protection. The cost structure is a real picture of the situation in Serbia, and it is understandable that Mrs. Minister's wish to change it, and it looks like this: The state is employer number one; the pensioners' obligations to the Fund are not able to settle because it cannot be met as much as it takes from employees and the state has to assume these obligations on itself. There are growing numbers of social assistance users, as young people spend years on the labour market instead of hiring, and those who work on a daily basis without a job, so the need for state welfare is growing. As we heard from the finance minister, the economy is slowly recovering and in 2011, the subsidy will be 3.1 billion. Serbian farmers are in trouble to their throats, and subsidies to agriculture are 20 billion. I mentioned the state's employer is number one. Indeed, a large number of new ones are among the beneficiaries of the budget. No wonder, because almost every session of the National Assembly this year and last year, a new user was founded, mostly a new body, parallel to the regulatory state body. It is about different regulatory bodies, agencies, commissions, councils and others. I will mention the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the Fiscal Council, the Navigation Safety Authority, the Department for Transport of Dangerous Freight and many more. Whenever you set up one of the bodies mentioned, we said that it would only increase the number of civil apparatus anyway, and that you were creating an expensive state administration, but it seems that it was only important that the establishment of agencies would provide their people with a well-paid job, although it overlaps with the affairs of individual ministries which otherwise the Constitution recognises as the only regulatory state bodies. Security shall be paid to boards of directors and supervisory boards. Last year, we had a farce about the adoption of two laws on the reduction of the number of employees in the state and local administration. Just to remind ourselves that for local self-governments that do not implement the law and do not reduce the number of employees in the local administration to the number prescribed by law, the penalty that will be imposed by not transferring the estimated amount of funds from the budget to local self-governments. And where's the punishment for all the numerous para-state organs? Where's the punishment for regular state authorities who fired one person but concluded contracts with others about work they didn't have the right to work on? To what extent have these abuses been committed shows the 2009 report on the revision of the bill on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. We'll talk more about it and hopefully we'll have more time to discuss details. It is all written – who has concluded a contract for work for jobs that are otherwise systematised in the body itself, what is the value of the contract, so individuals worked in the body itself, and yet were engaged in the contract, others worked in another body, so they were provided with double salaries, etc. As long as the money is available to the state, there is despair and despair among the citizens. In all of Serbia, it is hard to live, and I will give an example of desperate people from southern Serbia, who had a truly stunning idea. They wanted to set up an agency, an agency for the sale of human organs, by reputation of the state. This shocking announcement by Doljevac residents, a municipality located between Nis and Leskovec several months ago, upset the whole of Serbia. The poor people of Doljevac said that they see a way out of poverty in the establishment of this agency. Doljevac municipality is one of 40 undeveloped in Serbia. In Doljevac and surrounding towns and villages live between 18 and 19 thousand inhabitants. About ten years ago, half of the population in the municipality of Dolvak had a job in the factories of electronic and machine industry, tobacco industry and rubber products industry "Vulkan" and others in Nis, and a significant part of it worked in companies and companies in the municipality itself. In her day, she successfully worked as a downhill slaughterhouse, which had about 250 employees. There was both a confection and a strong agricultural cooperative. Today, only a few hundred people work in Doljevac and other places, mostly in the shop and in the exploitation of gravel. At the Centre for Social Work in Doljevac, material assistance receives about 350 families from the municipality's territory. Needs are much higher, however. This condition has forced people to start saying they're going to start an agency and sell their organs. We remember the good events of finger-cutting. It has a symbolic meaning because every honorable man says that everything he's acquired has come from his ten fingers. Slicing off fingers means that honest work in Serbia is hard to live on. This doesn't seem to touch the eyes and ears of the government's representatives, because if it did, it certainly wouldn't behave like this with the money of all taxpayers and there wouldn't be this much debt. We wouldn't be in charge of future generations year by year, and here we hear stories that lead fiscal policy in accordance with the principle of intergenerational justice. Simply, these stories are contrary to the facts. Tried to amend and supplement the PIO laws were undertreated in today's debate. For lack of time, I'm just going to say something about the changes that apply to the necessary minimum insurance service for the woman's insurance company. This internship is increasing from 35 to 38 years old. When we look at all the difficulties most women in Serbia face, it is clear that these changes are harmful to women in Serbia. It's hard to get a job first. They spend a lot of time on unemployment records. When many women are able to work on black without paid contributions, and in previous discussions on some other laws, we said that women are often less paid for the same job that men do. Nature so wanted women to give birth and raise children, and there is a small number of women who are able to protect their children’s assistants. More about this, but also about the increase in the number of various diseases that women often suffer from, especially young people, will be discussed in particular, as well as other proposed amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. It is now important to point out that this bill will change the conditions for retirement of people who carry out the jobs for which the benefits of the work, i.e. An increase in the duration of the insurance. The conditions will be tightened by most of these insurance companies, as the age limit rises and the number of years needed is increasing. In view of the fact that it is particularly complex business, this change is not in the interest of the insurance undertakings mentioned. Finally, in his brief address to lawmakers, the prime minister told us to view the proposed budget professionally and responsibly, freed from party acuity. National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are telling the prime minister, who is not with us now, that we always do so. Every bill that comes to the National Assembly is watched both responsibly and professionally and each of our discussions is some true life story without a shred of acuity, and with a lot of what the citizens tell us. We from the opposition, unlike the representatives of the government and how we hear what the citizens are telling us and we carry it partly in our discussions here in the National Assembly. Mrs Dragutinovic told us in the opening statement that today's debate is seen as a struggle in the political arena, even if she observes it so that for the government, this struggle is nothing compared to each other's struggle with the government's coalition partners when drawing up the budget. It is fair to tell Serbian citizens that the only important outcome was the mutual struggle between ministers, not the interests of Serbian citizens. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are written to make their arguments in the debate. Finally, the minister tells his story and then the MPs do not have the opportunity to answer. This may make an impression with the minister that he won the battle in the political arena, but Serbian citizens listen carefully and most are recognised in the opposition lawmakers' discussions. They can't be fooled by stories that don't match everyday ones. I am sorry that some fellow MPs from the ruling coalition have told their story and are now not in the O.R., and their story was based on the fact that they simply do not like that the opposition criticises what is in the draft budget law is not good. It's incorrect to say that we read the bill in the dark, so we're talking all black. It is also incorrect to make public that there was a lot of rhetoric in the debate and little content. That's relative, because we don't all look at the same thing. All that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party MPs have said, and what they will say after this discussion and Mr. Buha is justified and I repeat the true stories of life are true. Whatever we have proposed to the amendments, the Government would refuse, because of course it will seek to realise what it has planned, and the concessions in the form of the adoption of amendments will, of course, be made when the amendment is submitted by MPs of the ruling coalition. The opposition's budget amendments are usually rejected, no matter how high-quality solutions they contain. As we have been informed about the amendments to the budget we will take on Tuesday, we will explain in detail the solutions that have been proposed and we will see then how much will the government accept solutions that are truly in the interest of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49336	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. You have 16 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49337	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, here we are in the late hours discussing the set of laws that are most important in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would agree with some MPs of the current government who have criticised the authorities and openly said that certain legal proposals have come here without discussing fiscal analysis of the effects of these laws. As an opposition, it is good for us that the representatives of the authorities criticise the authority that comes out with such irresponsible legal proposals. Mrs. Comic made it clear that there is no fiscal analysis of why the VAT law incorporated what was installed. I'll talk about it a little bit later. Representatives of the opposition, especially the Serbian Radical Party, have for years indicated that you are not making an analysis, not only in the fiscal sphere, you are not making an analysis in the economic sphere, nor in the financial sphere, nor in the economic sphere, nor in any other sphere. There's no analysis. If he had an analysis, we wouldn't have the results that we have in society right now. It means we have to confirm what the authorities have said. Would you also agree that the greatest responsibility for which the draft budget did not come to the Assembly as ordered by the Budgetary System Act? The first of November is the deadline for him to appear here. But we disagree in the following -- that the finance minister besides the living Prime Minister convenes a cabinet session. The Prime Minister clearly knows the commitment to the budget. The finance minister has previous actions that must be taken in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, draft a draft, deliver in time to the Government, agree everything. We have an IMF link, it's a cop who determines everything, and no matter what, the legal deadline has to be respected. This is where the president of the assembly needs to be looked at critically. The President of the Assembly is tasked by the law on the financial system, the Law on the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to convene a press conference first when the budget did not come here, thereby the President of the Assembly building his authority, protecting the legality and constitutionality of this house, this assembly. Mrs. Dejanovic, you didn't do it, you had to do it, you have to warn this irresponsible government of its legal obligations. In addition, we are regularly here representatives of the current government openly point out that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are violating the Constitution. This is what representatives of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, the League of Social Democrats, etc. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. The constitution is being broken. It's undeniable. As for the incomes belonging to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Constitution is clear and decadent, they are being broken. But it's not just a violation of the Constitution. We are also breaking one set of laws that is now in force in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the Budgetary System Act. Here I told you about the government's obligation to deliver to the 1.11. On the 15th of the current year, the draft final account must come to the Assembly. Did this government deliver it? It's not. For what? Why do you break the law? Mrs. Dejanovic, have you ever wondered why it didn't come? You, as Parliament's president, are under obligation, have sworn an oath and must protect your legality, warn the government of its obligations if it is irresponsible. Furthermore, the government openly acts and violates defence laws, it is obliged to single out 2.4% of GDP in the budget under the Defence Act and to belong to the defence ministry. Is that done? It's not. Is there a violation of the Law on the financing of local self-government? He's been broken. 1.7% of GDP belongs to local self-government. You boast here, your odds are 25% more than last year. That's not true. You've made as much as the law requires. This year, local self-government had to win, according to this 2011 budget, local self-government had to receive 58 billion. How much did she get? She got 31 billion. Legal regulations on public procurement are being violated. Last year, at this time, we passed the Law on the mass number of workers in the state administration in local self-government. These two laws are being broken. Clearly, the Act on the Maximum Number of Workers in the State Administration has set the maximum – 28,400. How many are there now? Over 30,000. The union says there are more than 31,400. According to what you're proposing, you're still increasing it. A few thousand. Only this parliament, the Assembly increases the number by 62 perpetrators. How, when is there a law? Whom does the law oblige? How much you have reduced the number of workers under this law – 720 and something. How much did you have to do – 2,800. How much is in local self-government – 5,600. How many of them have you fired? Not a thousand. You see how you play with the law. Public debt laws are being violated on privatisation, and now I don't have time to elaborate all that, etc. This is where an idyllic picture of the deficit is created. About, a deficit, a surplus, that's the same thing -- three billion, 30 billion, 120, 140 million, so that's, Mrs Dragutinovic, you've now arrived, during the time you've been in power in the last 30 months, the country's deficit with these seven budgets is over four billion euros. For the sake of the public, I must stress four billion euros, 440 and some billion are the total deficit of the state. This number had to be covered. How? Indebted abroad, indemnity on the domestic market. Now I'm going to read you what could have been done, I've done my best to recalculate what could have happened to that four billion-euro figure in the last 30 months, that we've been in a surplus or a smaller deficit. 400,000 workers could be employed. If I have to, I'll explain how. It could have been built a highway 2,000 kilometers long, from Moscow to Moscow, from 30 months to Moscow. We could have made 15 bridges like this bridge in Vienna. We could've built a water line in the length of 12,000 miles to Tokyo. To help the Japanese. That's what it's worth. We could have made 15,000 buses, 1,750 kilometers of sewerage, to Paris, etc. That's the value of what the state spent. She's in charge. Why? Because you, Mrs Dragutinovic, say the deficit has no place to rest but from two sources. One is foreign borrowing, and the other is privatisation. What's the value of borrowing? It's all long. The privatisation in 2008, 2009 and 2010, may now be sold to Telecom, but what are we going to do after that? From what do you settle everything else? What messages are we sending to the people and citizens of Serbia? I will try to present it through the statements of the President of the Republic. In "News" 12.11.2010, the president says – The austerity measures in state institutions will be rigorous. No one in power during a crisis must receive higher wages. The next day, according to his statement, the economy minister comes out and says – since we have come out of the crisis, we will raise wages in the same way as VAT. There's been a serious analysis, it's 11 months. Now we know exactly that it's going to be 1.55. The day after that, two days after the president's statement, the prime minister says -- given the economic financial indicators and data by 10 months, we will raise salaries. We're playing. The President of the Republic when he says - savings and that it will be very rigorous and there is no increase in wages, is that binding on someone? It doesn't oblige anyone. At least Minister of Economy and Regional Development. The Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. After that, when the economy and regional development minister came out with data that GDP growth was so large, without any analysis, he did so. The first minister, and then all representatives of the government, ministers, etc., also came out. And the secretary of state had a raise, and then they started bidding. It's going to be 5%, and it's going to be 6%, and we're going to be 8%, etc. It's pounding empty straw without any indication. I must agree with the authorities that this government is not doing any economic, monetary, financial, economic and other analysis. There's no analysis. It's just a thumping. This is where the prime minister came out today with two principles on which this budget is based. One is savings and the other is development. Let's see the savings. Where are we saving up? How much public spending we are projected – 45%. Are we going to increase profits in 2011? Let's go. We're going to be doing this together, over the course of this year, another two adjustments. What does the governor of the NBS say, what does he expect in the first two quarters? An increase in consumer prices of as much as 15%. In the second half of the year there will be a calmdown, so it will be somewhere in the relationship, what is projected 4.5 plus minus 1.5%. I'm saying it can't be stopped if inflation is even rising prices to a little over a two-quarter period. It cannot return 15% to 4% or 6%, respectively. We'll have that jump. The projected rate of public spending is 45% and will go to 50%. If our budget is charged as charged in 2010, it can't be better, we'll have far less revenue, or they'll make a budget. That's what you've shown here clearly. The country's VAT was projected in 2010, according to the 2010 budget at 132 billion, so you rebalanced it to 112, 20,180,000,000 euros. What happened? We don't have the goods and services produced or they're on the black market. The black market is 40%, perhaps even more than the total volume of transport and the production of goods and services. What is the relationship between VAT that comes on the basis of domestic market goods and what comes from abroad – 1:2. We're a country that's dependent on imports. Without imports, we can't live. We destroyed the economy, and now we're doomed to import. That's what you see, the projection is yours, the VAT in the country is 118 billion, the VAT from imports is 235 billion, twice as much. Furthermore, what the SRS stands for – serious savings. We point out that for years, without saving, there is no serious shift in Serbia's economy, nor in Serbia's social life. You have to tax the offshore companies, what you've announced. There's no law on taxation of the offshore company. You must tax everything that is taxing countries in the region. Croatia and Hungary are heading towards taxation and the adoption of rules taxing banks and monopolies. It is the obligation of this state, without it there is no life of Serbia. What else do you have to do? You have to stop all those streams in public procurement. Wensen Deger told you openly that 25%... (President: I'm gonna have to stop you because it's time, you finish thinking. Thank you. There is a clear message from Vensen Deger – 25% of public procurement goes into private pockets. That's a billion euros. Put in a billion euros, because public procurement is pumping. Put a billion euros in the budget, here you are, almost covering this deficit you have in this budget. Tax the banking system, tax the monopolies. You don't have a deficit. You have a surplus. From this surplus you will clearly be able to settle and employ. Stop those negative currents, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49338	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone who has not used the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Peric Đuro has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49339	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, rarely which draft law in the term of this government has caused so much controversy, doubt and controversy in the public as a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. However, there is quite a reason for the adoption of such a law because this stems from the need for further implementation of the pension insurance system reform launched in 2002, as we heard, and then in 2003 and 2005 and now this. Each of these adoptions and changes in laws also made certain measures that were such that they helped reform the system in a certain way. I shall specify only one or two elements that are relevant to these changes. In 2002, the change in the way pensions are coordinated by leaving profit, as the only way to reconcile pensions and was then introduced so-called. Swiss method. The important thing is that the increased age limit was then increased by three years for men 63 years and for women 58 years. In 2003, the rate of pension insurance contributions was radically reduced from 32% to 18% and a new method of calculating pensions was increased through so-called so-called pensions. personal point. In 2005, leaving the Swiss method, but because of the difficulties involved in the funds, the rate of contribution increased from 18% to 22%, but it couldn't help much, and in addition to the second measure, which is also important, the increase of age for men to 65 years, and for women to 60, which is now valid. However, the situation in the pension population was very difficult at the time, so because of the worsening of the PUPS position in autumn 2008 he insisted on an extraordinary increase in pensions by 10%, which we have often been criticised for many times. This extraordinary raise is a regular alignment in October 2008 of 4%, as well as aid from 5,000 dinars for 1,300,000 pensioners this fall, with significant social assistance that individual local self-governments in some stronger centres, such as Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and others, give pensioners with lower pensions, significant social assistance, e.g. In Belgrade, it is quarterlyly given 4,000 for pensions of up to 15,000 and there are about 76,000 in Belgrade. However, the measures that have been taken so far, I think, through all these changes that have been made, despite certain positive effects, have proved insufficient to overcome the problem of which it is important for the continued functioning of the pension insurance system, which points to the necessity of further reforming the system in the Republic of Serbia and, in that sense, needs to be amended and this law that is before us today. It should be pointed out in particular that changes in the demographic structure of the population, which is very important, requires further adjustment of pension insurance rights as a continuous process. In this regard, the desire and objective of the PUPS is not only to address the problem in the short term, although it must sometimes be done, but to try to create a sustainable pension insurance system that will be independent, resistant to current negative influences and, most importantly, to be effective in achieving the acquired rights of our oldest citizens. That's why PUPS engaged intensively in the preparation of this law that's ahead of us today. I would only hold on to a few more important elements in these proposals, because of the shortness of time only for a few of them, to say that the conditions for obtaining old age pension are changing, or to gradually raising the conditions for obtaining rights, by gradually increasing the age of 53 to 58 years by 2020, which is often lost from sight when it comes to this one longer period, rather than the current event, and the conditions for women's training from 35 to 38 years of age, but since 2013, which is incorrect and malicious information that has appeared in some daily papers, that since 1 January 2011, the shift of women's internships will begin in four months. They're complete misinformation. However, it should be noted that in many European countries, the age limit for women is equal to the age limit for men and even sets over 60 years, in some and 65 years, for men and women. The latest wave of reform of the pension system across Europe, Romania, Croatia, Slovenia, Greece, France, results in the rise of this age line. In France, for example. is, as we know, recently set even for 67 years, and even there is a good economic system, it cannot be challenged, but as you can see, and there must be such measures to maintain this system as far as possible. The position of the PUPS parliamentary group is that at this time there are no conditions for the ageing limit to be further raised, i.e. that it should be kept at a level of 65 years for men, or 60 years for women. It should be borne in mind that life span is lower in us than in many other countries, that the position of women in society is traditionally worse and with more obligations, that they have had lower earnings, they have been less employed. Finally, for both half of 2002 to 2011 the age limit was raised for five years. We think it is necessary to point out that during negotiations with the IMF delegation, their representatives have proposed that the minimum retirement age for both sexes be set at 60 years of life and 40 years of insurance. In doing so, retirement before the age of 65 would be treated as early retirement and would be permanently reduced by each year of the difference between the current retirement and the age of 65. Our side, logically, did not accept these IMF proposals. I think it's necessary to point out another detail that wasn't actually the subject of these amendments and the addition of the law. There have been stories in public that these changes and pension supplements will fall dramatically, even today we have heard it on several occasions. Anyone who has read the proposal of this law knows that it is not true, because in terms of how pensions are calculated, none of them have been changed. Pensions will be calculated in the same way after these changes are adopted, so there is no fear that they will be reduced. For the existing pensioners, it is certainly the most important thing to coordinate pensions. As we know, there have been a lot of speeches today after these years and the following, 2012, 2013, there are certain formulas, you wouldn't repeat them now, but the most important thing in all is that pensions will be brought into line with public sector profits in the meantime and that the same fate will be shared. Although pension coordination is carried out on the basis of data from the Republic's statistical authority, I have the impression that forecasts of consumer price growth rates that appear in the public are too low and slightly confusing, given the constant waves of price increases are a large number of goods and services, so we should see how this is going to run in the coming year. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, it fully supports proposals related to the smallest and highest pension. That's what we had in the lines of words today, so I'm not going to say it again now. So perhaps the most significant thing is that this highest pension will be reduced, in that it will go from coefficient 4 to 3.8% and thus reduce the range from 9.3 to 1 to 8.5 to 1. The bill also seriously addressed the problem of insurance companies with an insurance internship that counts with an increased duration. It is important to note, for the sake of numerous wrong and malignant comments in the public, that the proposed amendments to the law will not affect the current solutions related to the category of insurance companies that account for 12 months of work as 18 months of internship. So, members of these professions, miners, pilots, ballerinas, will still retire with 50 years of life, as it was. There are many abuses that have occurred in this problem, and I even think that there are some places in this law where it is said – members and those services, however, the members of the service are all those who are employed, but not all of them can get that benefit. The necessary funds were already being talked about, and we talked about that when there was a discussion about budget rebalancing. This was also about what was done by the reform in the PIO Fund. I think it overestimates the role of the fund, at least now as it's being conceived, and we heard today that this fund should be the main generator of everything that needs to be done in the reform of the system. But for now, he is not so well-conceived and it is being discussed further, how we will go about the fund. There's a lot of problems about the contribution, about the gray economy, etc. I'd say what else the IMF's role is in pension reform with us. This reform is an integral part of the commitment package for obtaining a credit arrangement, due to the large allocation from the budget to finance regular pension payments. For this reason, the ongoing phase of the PIO reform was discussed during a meeting with the IMF. The main objective of the reform, including the talks with it, was to ensure the long-term economic sustainability of the pension insurance system. I must stress that it is often wrong in public that the IMF minority literally dictated the measures found in the bill, which is not true. It is true that IMF representatives made their proposals for further reform of the pension system, which were much more stringent than later agreed, with the aim of helping to define concrete solutions, but agreed with the measures put forward by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Jovan Krkobabic, who were later included in the bill. When it comes to harmonising pensions, an agreement has been reached on the principles to be followed when defining a concrete formula, with the harmonisation of pensions in the coming period. It is accepted, most importantly, that pensioners should share the fate of employees, as well as societies in general. In line with this, it agreed that the next two years, while the economy is still recovering from the crisis, and as modest growth rates are recorded, pensions will be harmonised in the same way as profits in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49340	Thank you. I give the word to Minister Dr Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49341	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, as many of you as there are in these late hours, many issues have been raised today, and I know that the right debate is only coming when we talk about details, but I would still like to look back on and answer some questions, especially some views that were biased, which were incorrect, unintended or deliberate, because I can hardly agree with them. There were very effective exhibitions, especially one that spoke about the results of this government compared to the results of the previous ones. It's been pretty systematic, really. There are seven reasons why we need a new one, not this one, or reconstructed. I guess you're thinking of the same wine in an old bottle. So very well systemized. By the way, maybe unwittingly, the actual data that wasn't accurate was presented, and I'll just look back at them. So one of the issues of the MP was that 70% of the budget was actually the IMF budget. I would remind all of us together here, you all know, you've been in these benches for a long time, and I've known what the budget should be, so the expenditures are divided into discretionary and non-discretional. You won't believe me, I've been persistent enough to analyze all the budgets of the Republic of Serbia since the late 1980s until this last one. The participation of discretionary and non-discretional expenditures is almost identical for all governments in Serbia, those before 2000, these after, those once in power and not anymore. So, the participation of so-called. non-discretional expenditure is between 87% and 90% of budget expenditure. The participation of discretionary between 10% and 13%. Why am I telling you this? Because there are, says theory, expenditures that are difficult to change in the short term, which are also pensions and salaries and disability and compensation for the unemployed and compensation for the sick. When we add debt payments, subsidies and agriculture and railways, which are subsidized everywhere in the world, then you really see that 90% of the expenditure is somehow predetermined. So it's not true that 70% of the expenditure was defined by the IMF, he focused on the 10% so-called. discretionary expenses. We can say that there's too much discretion in the hands of a government when there's 10% budget expenditure, but again, I've been doing a very careful analysis and I've seen that it's a very stable number. The numbers are a miracle. And the way you compare it is a miracle. So there's a methodology that says that you still have to compare the same thing, especially when you use numbers, and you don't mean the same thing. So, I was not comfortable here to hear that I was the finance minister and a member of the government who had nine times increased the budget deficit of the Republic of Serbia. So, I can say, we can check it together, who really cares, how much the budget deficit of the Republic of Serbia has increased, how much the finance minister and the government in general have increased the budget deficit. So in 2007 and 2008, when we look at an average, a budget deficit or a total fiscal result was about 2.6% of the social product, if we use the same methodology. The 2010-2011 budget deficit is 4.8 and will be 4.1% of the social product. So two times tops. I'm not saying it's small, but it's not nine times. So, the budget deficit was 10.4 billion in the period you mentioned, this year will be significantly less than 148. Only the budget, when we're not talking about the consolidated state, was 50 billion dinar deficits. Today it's going to be less than 120. Interestingly, there were MPs who had been critical, probably compared to the finance minister, to notice that the minister had announced and failed to implement tax reforms. Tax reform requires support, and your discussion, the honourable MP, has shown that you are not in favour of reforms either. So, you've criticised excise policy and VAT policy, so consumption tax, taxes that are really considered to be their change, not to say increase, at least have a negative impact on economic growth in addition to property taxes. You did not criticise changes in excise policy and VAT from the aspect of justice, and you could do that from the aspect of economic efficiency, you could do that from the aspect of international competitiveness. Also, by some other MPs, who criticised the growth of VAT rates and excise duties on certain products, while criticising the decline in customs rates, you know, the empirical experience has shown that the drop in customs duties increases external trade, and the larger external trade trade is always more productive and more social product. It's the competition that makes society progress. In sports, Serbs love competition, not economics. I can't explain it. I figured out by who knows what time it's never tax time. Even so, as the author of my dear novel "Walk with the Wind" said, "Neither for death nor for the creation of a family". So it's always easy to criticize tax rates. Of course it's always better for tax rates to be low, not high. Since we already love comparisons, it would not be bad, once we compare profits and inflation and economic growth and public debt, we may also be able to compare tax rates in Serbia compared to other countries. I think I have all the time in this world, I'm not tired, and whoever's tired or uninterested, of course, can always get out. What has especially left me a bitter taste somewhere is a discussion from only one angle. So, all those who criticized the tax rates in the Republic of Serbia and the amendments to the tax laws have always talked only about the increase and have not mentioned a reduction once, and I say that with the budget there was a package of tax laws and that this package of tax laws in its total sum was fully profitable neutral. It is necessary to increase excise duties on cigarettes, a small number of VAT products, but, on the other hand, the tax rates on the transfer of absolute rights, on the gift and inheritance and on mobile phone taxes are reduced. We had a growth in income on one side of six billion, a loss of six billion. So no one pays anymore. It is not only in the country of Serbia that tax talks are not a frozen topic. Of course, we have a word, inherited, that it's a hack and I'm trying to explain why so many people who talk about taxes are so unpopular and exposed to criticism. It is possible because none of the taxpayers or we as citizens, individuals or companies are likely to see a clear link between the costs, so tax payments and the services we receive. So it becomes quite clear to me why someone who talks about taxes can't have anyone's sympathy. You can see clearly who would be the winner, who's the loser. Losers are always loud, the winners are silent. It is not just the case for Serbia that the most hated tax, so to speak, is the property tax. Why? Because people are never satisfied with the estimated value of their assets. A colleague of mine in college, who recently began to deal with budgetary policy, told me a nice detail. He thinks it would be good for an individual's property tax, i.e. the company's application, to self-determin the value of their assets, to pay the value tax on their own account, but then to be willing to sell the property at the same price. Why are we not satisfied and why do we hate property taxes most of all? Because, unlike other taxes, you don't see that you pay VAT, excise taxes, which you pay daily, or because, unlike taxes and income contributions, you don't see that you pay because that's what the employer pays for you, when a property tax is paid, it's very noticeable and always causes shock. Of course, this is a tax where you can always find examples of regression, that some owners of very valuable assets have little money and can't pay it, and you can always find examples that the state doesn't care about someone. Of course, I like comparisons and there are two kinds. So, through time and with others at the same time. The fact is, no matter how much I loved sports and had exceptional sports skills when I was young, I could hardly compare my physical condition with my daughter's condition. On the other hand, for a 50-year-old lady, I think I might be able to compare myself nicely when it comes to sports skills. Why do I tell you this? Because it is extremely methodologically wrong to compare the economic results of the same country before and during the crisis, but only with other countries during the crisis. As one of you has said quite nicely, Serbia is not an isolated island, it is often good that it is not. We wouldn't mind if it were now, but it isn't. Someone said that the only thing that's certain is debts. To that I would add - it's good to have this fiscal policy, it's good to know in advance what the fiscal deficit will be, it's good to know in advance what our borrowing frameworks are. Borrowing is a really important way of financing deficits everywhere and also in Serbia, yet borrowing from the point of view of who should and who will actually pay the debt burden controversially. It is extremely important to start with the principle of benefit. If future generations benefit from the current fiscal policy, then they should share the burden of paying debts. Surely, economic history has shown it, there are ups and downs, but over time people are getting richer. If future generations are expected to be richer, it is normal to bear part of the burden. You all know well that since World War II, so many countries have so much in debt in such a short time. What's the alternative? If they hadn't, the crisis would have been deeper and longer. I want all of us together to remind us of some standards, whether we like standards or not, the upper limit of less duty, although the upper limit is 48% of the social product. How much does this RS budget stimulate, subsidize, stimulate economy? Most of the criticism, when it comes to subsidies, was dedicated to subsidies in agriculture. I am speaking again, deliberately avoiding the fact that there are more sources than therefore agriculture is subsidized. This clearly stands in our budget, and whoever wants to look at that category 451 that says: subsidies to agriculture, so they add them all up from all sources, will see how many subsidies are in agriculture. I looked at the subsidies in agriculture from 2000 to today. I could say a few numbers, and I suggest you check them out. In the period from 2003 to 2006, agricultural subsidies were on average from all sources of 12 billion dinars, 2007. 16 and 25 billion dinars between 2008 and 2011. Otherwise, if you're looking at the average of transition countries, not to say the EU average, it's between 0.65 and 0.75 of the social product, just as much as we've invested in the last three years. I realize it's never enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49342	Gentlemen, I would really like to ask you, Madam Minister, Madam Minister has listened so carefully to your participation in the debate, I would really like to ask you, gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen gentlemen of the gentlemen, to show our respect for the minister who is truly extremely safe to explain every detail that you have potentiald in your content in the discussion. I would really ask you not to put me in a position to say certain things at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49343	I'm used to students as an audience, but I have to tell you, they're more careful. The most important thing is that children are better than we are. It's supposed to be our joint task.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49344	Mr. Vice President, I really expect you to help conduct the sessions occasionally, not compromise the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49345	There were also talks about capital expenditures and with a certain amount of ridicule talking about capital expenditures that were scheduled for this year, which is 32 billion dinars compared to an earlier year, I think it was 2007, when 65 billion dinars were spent. Instead of a simple comparison of the budget space, which was provided for capital investments, we might be better off seeing what we really did with that 65 billion dinar money and what it really does with this 32-dollar money. Money isn't the only thing that matters. It's what you get for that money. At the end of the line, these are just budget funds. You deliberately forget that 100 billion dinars of international financial institutions are provided for large investment projects. Again, I was put in my mouth by words that I didn't say, quite, I don't even know what to say, it sounds like, I was quoted as saying that six hours before the draft budget was adopted in the RS government that I didn't see that draft. The same day, the auditor submitted his report, and I said I hadn't seen the audit report, that was correct. How can I not see the draft budget being prepared by the Ministry whose minister I am? Enough money will be allocated to the King, about 400 million dinars this year. Next year, billions of funds are provided at positions of different ministries, NIPs, infrastructure, environment and labour ministry. Someone said the IMF criticised the government's economic policy. It might not be bad to remind you, and I suppose you've all read, that the sixth revision of the arrangement has been concluded, that the programme is estimated to be good, that fiscal policy is in line with the agreed, that pension reform is a step in the right direction, that economic growth is primarily based on exports and that inflation is above the objective for which a stricter restrictive policy is recommended. Is this back in time? There were smaller but also larger governments, some of which had 36 members. But if we look at technical and methodologically, there was no budget that accurately painted the budgetary position of the Republic of Serbia. The budget is more than numbers, but somewhere the rule applies – as many numbers, however, more information. Basically, I gave you all the opportunity to criticize. There were budgets with 250 items, too, without an audit report. There are over 5,000 of them today. One of you tolerated budget delays and procyclical fiscal policy when it was in power, and today it does not tolerate budget delays and countercyclical policy, although it is less evil. There was one question – would I trust one of my colleagues, I liked the question, my family budget? I don't mean to offend some colleagues here I won't mention, but I would certainly trust Minister Djelic and Minister Rasim Ljajic with my family budget. To end with a joke and hope for a good mood, ready for Monday's discussion with you again to late hours, in the words of a bride who, at the request of the groom, said that the offer that implies that balance the budget really wasn't the offer she was expecting. As much as I'd like to have a balanced budget, I know very well that countercyclical fiscal policy is the right cure for this economic situation. All of you who stayed in the O.R. thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-23-0.u49346	Thank you, Madam Minister. I am concluding a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to financial plans for 2011: the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, the National Employment Service; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System Act, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments, the Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Taxes, the Amendments to the Law on Pensions and Disabilities. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your participation in the debate.
