ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48296	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask all MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, which is enough to establish under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miroslav Markicevic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in connection with the search in detail of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister Bozidara Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development, and Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic called for the meetings to be attended by Slavica Jelac, director of the Office for Tobacco at the Ministry of Finance and Zoran Jadzic, director of the Board of Games at the Ministry of Finance. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We are going over the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS ON DUVAN (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Dusan Marić, Milorad Buha, as well as amendments to the Government and the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, and pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the first amendment, or amendment to Article 2, submitted by Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, and in accordance with Article 27 and Article 89 of our Rules of Procedure, I shall inform the National Assembly that I shall set a break by 12.00 hours. The reason for the break is the inability of any government representative to participate now in this part of our session from 10.00 to 12.00 hours. I also inform you that from 12:00 p.m., when we continue our work with the presence of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will work without a break and we will work after 1800 hours, and until the end of the search in particular by all amendments to the two agenda points that have been the subject of our work in a joint search. The work continues at 12.00 hours. [[After break – 12.05]] Ladies and gentlemen, with an apology for speaking to you with seven minutes of delay compared to the scheduled time for the session to continue, and after opening this morning at 10.00 hours, on the basis of Article 90(2), I am giving you another notice. We have an oral agreement with Minister Diana Dragutinovic, so she will come at 12:30, but the MPs, because of the oral agreement between the Assembly and the minister, will not be able to provide you with the usual written information that the government has informed the Assembly of who will be the proposing authority except for the one you already have, which lists Minister Diana Dragutinovic. My proposal is to start the work, but given that MPs insist on being heard by the minister, another apology that I address you with this information seven minutes later, to inform you that we have an oral promise and agreement with Minister Diana Dragutinovic that at 12:30 he will enter the Assembly building and will join us at the session. The opposition's representatives suggest we wait together in the hall, which will prove the good relationship between the ruling majority and the opposition, but it is a violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask the MPs to continue our work at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48299	I think that the Legislative Committee has made a very good opinion on the amendment, and that the Government and others who have wondered about this amendment have made a big mistake. For the sake of the public, Article 2 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on tobacco enables, practically, the tobacco administration to participate in the preparation of draft laws, other regulations and sublegal acts etc. The fundamental change refers to the possibility of participation in lawmaking, as far as sublegal and so far it has been. I believe that it is not in line with the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia that the Administration, some part of the State Administration and the Ministry of Finance, can get that kind of jurisdiction, because this is not ordinary normative, but something that exceeds the normative action that is based, above all, on sublegal acts. Now, if serious laws are passed, then these standards of descriptive character must be avoided. As you wrote, it seems more to me to the Socialist Union of the working people of Yugoslavia - everyone wonders about themselves, anyone can participate, anyone can give an opinion. This administration, above all, has its executive functions, which are prescribed by law and they are, in addition to registering, keeping registers, issuing certain permits and something that resembles some kind of control function. I think this goes beyond the possibilities that the Constitution and our laws allow. I don't know why it's so important for this administration to have this kind of jurisdiction, because if this is written like this, then the question is asked – and what will happen if the future change of the law doesn't take place? Is this a major violation of some procedure, of the draft law, which is why we couldn't discuss the bill? Well, no. No, from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, from the point of view of other regulations. That's why I think it's unnecessary to enter, and apparently it needs to meet some of those people's needs, those executives who work at the tobacco department. I would not be surprised if, in the next phase of the change of this law, we were in a situation that even normally regulates the situation so that perhaps the draft laws could be involved by those who were, say, 1992, 1991, 1993, street cigarette sellers. You're going so wide into interpreting these powers of yours that you can suggest, it wouldn't surprise me. To be said, the one who sold bags or smuggled cigarettes from Montenegro in Resnik in 1992 has enough experience to make a very significant contribution to some regulations. However, such progress has also been made, and so have the directors of public enterprises. Apparently, this work experience from the street was decisive in determining whether to run some large public enterprise. There's as many as you want. It would not be surprising that they said in this bill that they would necessarily have to consult with Caneta, with Future, or with these others who have real direct experience in defining these provisions. Although whoever taught them how to do this job, as I recall, was killed in Athens at the end of 2000. These are practically all his participants and students. They are properly deployed in all institutions. Obviously, this type of accumulated experience is valuable in the making of some laws. Speaking of this view of what this administration could do, I need to draw attention to you so that you have to demonstrate and respect the principles of equality and equality towards all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. It's impossible for one who sold cigarettes on boxes in 1992-1993 to become the director of the Public Enterprise, and one who today, because he lost his job, to some box on the street selling something, some goods, to be scattered. What happens if those 10-15 thousand people you've scattered these days come in front of the City Assembly and say, "I'm sorry, please, you kicked us out of work, you don't let us work on the markets, you don't let us work on the street." Here are our children, here are our accounts, so Mr. Gilas and you other mayors, lead the right social criticism towards us. These are all possible consequences when this unserious approach is made to the changes of one law. I think this amendment should be adopted, because if this kind of confusion arises between classical executive functions and something that is quite influential in the preliminary part, before the legislative part, that it is not good. These likely observations should be used primarily by those responsible for drawing up proposals for future laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48300	Three minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48301	This amendment of ours points to the confusion that the promoter of these amendments and additions has introduced in this article as well. If you've already decided that the Duvantage Administration should participate in the draft laws and sublegal acts, then that should have been more specific. We just wanted to show you that what you're proposing is very vague again. So, if you wanted the tobacco management to participate directly, then you don't have to say – it participates in the preparation of the draft, because the draft can be a lot, before the draft laws and drafts, in principle, and there are different drafts, or laws, when they are voted in this assembly. So here we suggest that instead of saying "preparation of the draft", use the word "drawing of the draft." So that's clear then. Now, if you say that the tobacco management, again, you want them to participate in this, because you have suggested such changes and additions to us, you have suggested that they participate in the preparation for the law. So you should have been more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48302	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is practically based on Mr Krasic's amendment and I suggest that the tobacco administration participates in the creation of sublegal acts. In this way, the adoption of the amendments would practically extend the competence of this state body, which would give it one greater social justification, especially from the point of view of the number of staff in this administration and from the point of view of the pretty large budgets used for the work of the Administration. It is good that we adopt tobacco laws, tobacco products, which we adopt laws aimed at protecting against smoking, but it is bad that mostly all stories end in voting in this assembly and that the adoption of these laws does not follow and adequate social campaigns that led to the reduction of tobacco use and the reduction of smoking. It is a business of great social importance, of long-term importance, especially for the health of the population, but also for the budget of every family in which smokers exist. I regret to conclude that in Serbia, which smokes more than half of the population, ten times more social energy funds are used to protect gay rights than to protect non-smoking rights, rather than to campaign actions, aimed at especially young generations of warning about tobacco damage and the harmfulness of smoking. I end this exhibit with one question. I believe that the ruling parties, especially this DOS party, led by the DS, should explain to the citizens of Serbia - why this or similar tobacco laws, smoking, were not adopted seven, eight or nine years ago, when you were in great love with Stanko Sutotic Canet and other tobacco mob bosses, but are now adopting them?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48304	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48305	When I saw that Mrs. Dragutinovic had come, I wanted to ask her right away where the budget was, because I expected the budget to be here today and she should present it to us. But today we're going to talk about a law that she doesn't know much about, because a woman didn't participate in it, she's simply forced to sit here today while we're talking, as usual, without comment and no answer. The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 3 and this article in the original reads as follows - persons entered in the register, as referred to in Article 5(1) and (2) of this Act, are required to submit reports on the data on which they keep records at the request of the Administration. Now you are changing it – within the time limit which the Authority determines. What we wanted to intervene on is exactly that term "in the time period that the Administration has set". Since this is a completely undefined term, we felt it was necessary to write "in 15 days from the receipt of requests". It's simple, what's now what you've been commenting on, which is why this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed article provides the possibility for the tobacco administration to notify those entities in due time of the obligation to submit requested reports, so that they have sufficient time to prepare the requested data and deliver them to the tobacco administration, up to the time limit set by it. Again, so the tobacco department sets some deadlines. I'd like to know, now that the motionary is here, I'd like to ask him to just answer one question -- how timely is that if he were to express himself in a unit of time? We're supposed to use some precise definitions in the laws, some terms that are completely clear, seven days, 15 days, 30 days, not to use the term "mild-time," which means nothing. What's a good time for you? Maybe 15 days, maybe in a month, maybe six months. For those who are due to deliver this report, it is not timely, nor for me, as a MP, it is not a timely term that can be used in the law. We believe that 15 days really is enough for the tobacco management to notify the abovementioned entities of the obligation to submit requested reports, 15 days is a comfortable time limit for them to do all of this. There's no reason for you to use the term "good times" here right now and yet to explain why you didn't accept our amendment because you gave the tobacco management more opportunity. Yes, you've given them an easy opportunity to answer a little. You gave them a comfortable opportunity to get into corruption, because if I want to get some kind of report, that report is required of me, I will pay the clerk to do it, because there are laws in which that possibility is foreseen, environmental law. If you want to get a document a little faster, then pay for it a little faster and you get it. So, you don't predict that possibility here, but it seems to me that it's beneath the grain. That's why I think you should reconsider that this amendment of ours, which is very precise, so 15 days is a deadline, is quite enough for bigger jobs than the one you predicted, and I think you should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48306	A minute and 30 seconds have been used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48307	I don't think it's clear why this article is changing, which is covered by the 8th member of the bill. Why am I saying this? Because I think the existing solution is good, and this existing solution means for these factories that produce tobacco, tobacco processing, products according to their parent licenses. You know we have two factories bought by foreigners and foreigners need to make their trade stamps and brand products in these factories and sell on the markets. Now it's spreading, so it makes everything possible. Of course, since I don't trust DOS, then I run some background checks and come up with a reason, or cause, which is why it's done. I would now ask the present MPs and the public to understand what this is all about. You see, the tobacco company has registered 11 legal entities in its tobacco producer's records; I'm postponing the list. He keeps records of tobacco processors, he's got 13 tobacco processors; I'm postponing the list. Keeps records of the manufacturer of tobacco products, we have four, according to their records – The tobacco factory Nis, and then "BAT" Vranje, then "Monus" and the fourth is JT "International" Senta; I am also postponing this list. That's your paperwork. Then this administration, when I say the agency is a mistake, was once an agency, in Covic's time, keeping records of tobacco importers, tobacco processors, or tobacco products. There are 16 importers on that list. I'm postponing the list. They keep records, they actually license tobacco exporters, tobacco processors, tobacco products, 15 legal entities; I delay the list. They keep records of retailers on large tobacco products – 11. I'm not going to read these companies' names on purpose, but there are a few other dealers on large tobacco products. If you don't trust me, compare the list of 11 with the tags on the vans that drive the tobacco and have that dealer's status on a large scale. It's the second record run by the tobacco department. It's a register of tobacco brands, first section - cigarettes. We move to the third side and get to brand products, so it says for brands under regular numbers 60 to 66 and 84, the importer "Philip Morris" d.o.o. Belgrade, Boulevard Avnoya 64. He's not on this list. If you nod your head, take the list and show me where it is. He's gone. Therefore, from 85 to 92 – applicant and importer Reemtsma d.o.o. Belgrade, Diplomatic Colony No. 20. He's not on the list. Let's move on, "Golaher" d.o.o. Belgrade, Street Trade Number 2. Belgrade. He's not on the list. For cigarettes under regular number 103 to 115. Furthermore, from 116 to 120 it's this "Karelia" etc. the applicant and the importer FCG d.o.o. Belgrade, there is no record of the administration, so one side is correct, and then for cigarettes up to 175 – the applicant requires D Trade d.o.o. Belgrade, Petra Kočića No. 10. Zemun. It's not in the records they keep. What are your records? Then, under regular number 204, the importer FCG d.o.o. It's not in this file of yours, it's in this one for stamps. Then 213, 214. Reemtsma Belgrade, then 216, 217, also that Reemtsma, as you say pro-European. It's not in your records. So from 261 to 262, again this Reemtsma, it's not in your records. So again FCG for some number, then Reemtsma again, then FCG, so let's go in line. I'm reading your paperwork. It's not mine, believe me, it's me again C 336, 337 -- it's some OM cigarettes, it's FCG again. So for cigarettes from 354 to 356 – these are stamps, the Imperial Tabaco SCG, Belgrade, does not appear in your records. Furthermore, section 1, cigarettes, here for a wonderful miracle only in cigarettes from regular to 70, comes the importer Kaza Tabaker, Belgrade, Toplice's Wrist 3/4, is not included in the records, nor the importer, nor the exporter, nor the processor, nor the manufacturer. From 136 to 170, or to 160, D Trade Belgrade, there is a battle of 202-203, the MPS group, Belgrade, Karadjordjeva 75. It was the one who freed Michael Curtis in customs when you took customs on October 5th. There's no Zabunovic in your records. You can whisper, but I'm reading what you wrote and what's on your site, I'm sorry. So cigarettes from 204 to 209, the Integral logistics, Casablanca, so Kaza de Tabako, then Megatabak, Cloud 48, it's not in your records, it's not in Megatabak again, it's not in your records. There are many more of these brands, cigarettes, where they appear as importers, applicants that a product is registered and these requests are submitted to legal persons who are not registered as persons participating in the production, processing and traffic of tobacco processing. Then I ask the question, why do we pay for this tobacco management? So to prove that the records aren't true. These records aren't accurate on purpose. Why? To confuse your opponent. Now you're going one step further, what do you want? Someone who's interested, there's always a monopoly when it comes to tobacco, in all variations, from production to traffic, and we're facing monopolies. We have what it says in the new jargon, the big world players on our market. In fact, we have some who use other people's names to cover up something of their own that they're doing here. The first of the organised criminal groups to be formed in the territory of the former SFRY, these are those criminal groups dealing with tobacco. They were created, in breach of sanctions, under major influence from abroad, and 20 years ago a major judicial dispute was launched against the largest companies involved in the production of cigarettes and the transport of tobacco products. A New York Supreme Court judge did not accept jurisdiction, and then one allowed jurisdiction to exist. Why New York? Because it's the headquarters of all these companies in New York. This was done at the EU's request, at the time of the European Community, because they came to the conclusion that 10 billion are being kidnapped from the budget of countries, European states, based on illegal traffic. Let me remind you, for 15 years, we have been fighting a media fight and point to the dimensions of this organised crime in Montenegro. A little bit, when Djukanovic is due to go to Bari, to listen to him, the lawyer's sister brings in a few million and they stop the case. Even the subject of a court debate in Italy was whether Montenegro's president had the right to immunity when he came to Italy, given that these things were related. That's not just the case with Montenegro, that's the case here. You remember in 2001, when someone suggested that the tobacco factory be made in Kragujevac instead of the flag. He's not here, he was Deputy Prime Minister, remember that Cane Frog boasted that in 1996 he gave 500 thousand marks and that he was a major backbone of democratic change. You remember a lot of things, and what you can't remember, go to the SRS and get the book "Cana Frog King of the Tobacco Mafia." There is all the details, there is this factory from Croatia, Rovinj, as it does and what it does on the market. Three or four changes in this bill have been made, first of all, at the request of the international monopolies, that is, that is, yes, in a foreign language, on our packs to stand the inscription, that is to expand the possibility of selling in free shops at the airport, where only the documentation would be washed, and the helmets still go somewhere else. That tobacco crime doesn't stop. They're all the successes that took part in this crime. I remember, a few days ago, you stepped on him like someone who needed to help fund a bridge, and he was always boasting that he was hand-painting excise stamps on a pack of cigarettes that were brought here, and that's how the first million came to be. He says, for that first one, don't ask me, and I have this other thing in my books, I can't avoid it. Not to spread the story, because a lot of them are involved in this business, you understand one thing, the tobacco management has a purpose, a goal, to preserve the existing state. There's not a very significant job that the state could benefit from. Just to draw your attention, what you think when you buy in large trade chains some products, so you see VAT calculations and all that, etc., it's just a optical trick. If you with a fiscal account didn't raise the noise, there's a special computer program in the plant that washes it all, and what can't be washed, it's registered as a tax liability and requires a postponement of taxes until further notice. On this basis, we have several extremely wealthy individuals in Serbia, as owners of large companies, who are large debtors of the state, but therefore they are large donors, they will have the opportunity to form their foundations, they can also be in charge, they are socially responsible, they are buying out education and education institutions, they are sponsors of cultural and sports manifestations, and by that basis the state looks at them through their fingers when they do not pay for commitments to the state. The state, unfortunately, does not treat ordinary small entrepreneurs or those who work in small and medium-sized enterprises, there is ruthless. Then all I have to do is draw attention to you, when someone's legally working, then draws the line, sees that he was actually working for the Ministry of Finance, and he's got nothing left. Then it's no wonder business moves to gray streams and then it's no wonder when the state thanks money to go, starting from the street, across the counter, to the bar, to close everything in order, because they don't have the opportunity to see that it's impossible to do business under these conditions. So, I've read your file, you've written everything well and made it possible for us to conclude why these changes are being made. They are being done to ensure that the tobacco management will allow them to be all legal, and they are in a fairly illegal zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48308	National MP, Vice President Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48309	Just for a short while, to this all that Mr Krasic has said chronologically, explaining that the solution so far was better than the one proposed, to say that I am not by accident, but I am truly with a sincere intention to help Minister Diana Dragutinović, presented the book that Mr Krasic was just talking about, the book by Professor Vojislav Seselj, "Stanko Subotić Cane Zhabac, the king of the tobacco mafia". We can't be sure, despite this amendment to the law, and the first one was passed in 2003, it seems to me, to say that cigarette smuggling is completely contained. Although the two largest tobacco industries in Nis and Vranj are privatised, according to reports by state authorities dealing with criminal activities in Serbia, we have through the board, which is responsible for this information, that there is still, of course, a much smaller number, that criminal activity of cigarette smuggling. Why is it important that you take a look? It is not only really from the heart my gift to you, this book by Dr. Seselj "Stanko Subotić Cane Frog King of the tobacco mafia", to see this chronology and to see, Mrs. Dragutinović, because it is your portfolio, that these dirty flows of Cannet's money continue through various other channels here in Serbia. How? If we are as responsible people, members of the SRS, and before that is our president, and in the end this false indictment against him has been written, and for eight years already in The Hague, if we are with all those who have written about it, and also the already-killed journalist of the Croatian "Nacional" Ivo Pukanic, has been able, above all, to warn in time that this money, which has been through the smuggling of cigarettes and through the damages of the state budget, Stanko Subotić will be placed in Serbia, we could predict some things on the basis of this book that you now have, which has over 1,000 pages, has arguments and no doubt the direction of the prosecution's operation, since it has been called an international Interpol red warrant. I don't understand why you didn't react as a resolution minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia when you finally found out, or perhaps you knew, but by joining a Belgrade TV show, he announced that he had given 56m euros to the tycoons for the purchase of "News" and "Luke Belgrade", especially Miskovic and Beku, so how did you not react that the indictment filed against him by the republican and state authorities had changed because it was poorly written? Namely, he himself knows that, as our people would say, in Switzerland, without speaking to Djukanovic, because they see him, the joint project was to give Nikolic and Vukic five million euros and to carry out a coup in the SRS, but he knows that he is in Switzerland and how he is protected, because on the warrant, or what the state of Serbia is charging him with, and it is a crime of unprecedented proportions, something that is unremembered in these areas, he is charged with abuse of official office, which the Swiss state authorities do not know. Therefore, you need to get to know each other a little bit and more through these arguments that are standing there and take certain steps, because in the context of making changes and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties the other day, Radeta also asked how it was possible for the state authorities not to react. Please, since it's obvious that the affair over "News" and "Luke Belgrade", let's see this newly created party, which stole the mandates of the SRS, we say it's funded by the dirty Cannet money, can you do it as finance minister, that's your jurisdiction to examine and see where that capital comes from? Is that on this side, and we claim that it is, of smuggled cigarettes, which Mr. Krasic wrote about and what, besides, is documentedly speaking this book I just gave you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48310	The government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48311	This Article 9 is practically an amendment and addition of an existing Article 38 from the applicable tobacco law, and this article speaks of traders in large tobacco products. So there are various obligations, from being entered into the relevant register by the authority responsible for registration, and it's subject to change, and there's a lot of that. I think it is necessary to change the way tobacco products are transported. In our view, this change is much worse than an existing solution in the current law. Thus far, it has been an obligation when transporting such means that the means of transport intended for the transport of tobacco products may also be used for the transport of other items of general use, but not at the same time. What does that mean? Under the applicable law, the same means of transport could be used, for example, for the transport of detergents, hygiene products, etc., but that if tobacco products are transported then they must be themselves, that is, the only item in that means of transport. It means he can go in the same means, but he can't do it at the same time. That was a good solution. But what are you doing? You say, and you're completely unthinking this story, that it can be transported at the same time if these products are separated in a separate package, which makes it impossible for the odor to penetrate and not make direct contact. Practically, you are now allowing tobacco and detergent products to be transported in the same means of transport, hygiene, etc., but they are not in direct contact. However, they are in one and the same means of transport, or indoors. This is a very bad change, and I think it should have, we're simply suggesting that this change of yours be erased, because it's not good. In your explanation, too, fantastically, you say that you accepted this amendment on the proposal of a unit for a comprehensive regulation reform. I assume it's some unit of yours in the government that's in charge of that famous guillotine of regulations, if I'm wrong, you correct me. So, there's some unit for a comprehensive regulation reform, and it just pointed out to you that you should let traders in large tobacco products, in other words monopolies, who make a lot of money back many years and today on this market, you're going to take their advice and you're going to change this provision. Furthermore, in your explanation, you say fantastically - that the proposed changes by the economic operators involved in the trade in large and small tobacco products will be made a huge savings, which is likely to cost someone a lot of money, which will set out some means of transport in which only tobacco products will be, however, not. So you're saying that you're going to save these economic operators money, and you're announcing an increase in excise duty on tobacco products of 20 dinars per pack. It's in the announcement. If I'm wrong, you'll correct me, that's what the media says, that there will be an increase, so excise on tobacco products. So when such a proposal comes, then you don't think about not doing it anyway to save people who buy tobacco products, but you can raise prices here, and here God cares about the costs of transporting merchants to large tobacco products. There are a few more members where we suggested that your worse solution be deleted from the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48312	Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48313	There's one part that's changing in this article, which is really acceptable, because there's some mental error being corrected when the law is passed, and in the other part you're going back to something that we already talked about in 2005, and that's about transportation. I must draw attention to you, you have so epochally announced this very solution that when tobacco products are transported, and this must be in a special vehicle, specifically indicated, especially marked etc. So, as early as 2005, we pointed out that this was an irrational solution, that it simply creates costs, regardless of what controlled players appear throughout the process. That's when you turned down our attitudes. Now, after five years, it would have been said that it had come to your mind to listen to the Serbian Radical Party. That might seem commendable. But the thing is, you thought of something. It's not that commendable, it's that you've come up with something that can serve some good things. It can be like this new van that has mail, so they have a delivery package, so when you go to the coffee shop you see a ganc new yellow, blue, PTT writes, it's finished delivery, and now you're interpreting what's in that package. Is there an unregistered shipment under the registered shipment, and the drivers all small and well-knitted, short-cut, like the ones they do for BIA, wearing these little bags, from a people called... How can he get to some human nature? There's no law that can make it. How do we get to it if the law applies to people who know and cooperate in these affairs? Then it's impossible, then there's no amendment that can fix it. Literally speaking, there is no amendment that can fix that. You cannot, by law and amendment, influence the specific composition of the material, the human material that applies the regulations. That crime is general, it's long known, I don't need to talk about it, I talked about it when it was dangerous, then you punished me, and now that everyone's talking, and even your friends from abroad, because they don't trust you, so much money came in, there's no result, and now they're looking abroad at whether those controllers who controlled you, that you bribed them, too. Anything's possible. Now let me explain one thing to you. I must remind you, it seems to me in 2001 that Vojislav Seselj has filed three applications for the public award that Lutra has issued. One of these reports, Vojislav Seselj's notifications, referred to Stanko Sutotic Canet. As he reported it, he received criminal charges and criminal charges from both Canet and his lawyer, and Zoran Djindjic asked the Republic Public Prosecutor to initiate proceedings against Vojislav Seselj, as he harassed the public with lies. I'm going to stop here now and remind you, you've been conducting proceedings against Canet Subotic for years, precisely because of what Vojislav Seselj wrote when you persecuted him. However, it is not the first time that Vojislav Seselj is being persecuted. He was also punished for "God of Justice" in downtown Belgrade, for the Serbian trio, and now you stand still and sing that for which you punished Vojislav Seselj. You're not a safety criterion, you're prone to error. The safety criterion is Vojislav Seselj. If you don't believe me, you're inviting Lucky Kessler from Switzerland, a protected witness. He will explain nicely to you who is everything from Serbia, from that government, the former, the former and the current stories about the smuggling of tobacco products. Just so you know, the illegal market, illegal traffic hasn't dropped by yotu. This is your epochal – whether it will be in a marked van, unmarked van or in a passenger car, does not mean anything, believe me. Why? Because everyone's in position. So anyone participating in this business must be entered in the relevant register of the Agency for Business Registers as a business company. Secondly, from production to retail, anyone participating must be in the records of the tobacco management, to enroll them, to give them permission to deal with this business. You just saw from the records of this administration that they amnesty, legalize smuggling. Where a big player appears, a tobacco manufacturer, whether from Greece, who knows where, is just a criterion of how many will fill the private pockets of some people who are in power. It is not only specific to the Republic of Serbia, it is specific to everyone in transition, because their brain is in transition. That's where different fluids come in, from here to up, and it's best if it comes in your pocket. Why should citizens be victims of the greed of individuals who are a planetary error in power? It's a central question, and our Mrs. Diana is heroically defended by silence. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48314	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly will be accompanied by esteemed members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the Croatian Parliament for Cooperation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this: Mr. Neven Minica, Boris Kunak, Mirjana Feric, Mile Horvat, Master Marin Jurjevic, and Mr. Denis Cajo. Let's give them a round of applause. We're going back to work. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 10th amendment. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48315	What the DSS wanted to intervene on is the position of the 3rd member, which says – the means of transport used for the transport of tobacco products can also be used for the transport and other items of general use and you are now changing this "if they are separated in a separate package that prevents the penetration of the scent and does not make direct contact". We felt this needed to be erased, because there are some other laws here that you didn't follow, obviously. Of course, you did not accept the amendment, with an explanation – the amendment is not accepted because these amendments implement the recommendations of the regulatory reform unit and make savings in the business of business entities. I really don't know if there's any savings in the business of economic operators, but I do know that there's one law that this assembly has passed, relating to food safety, the Food Safety Act, to be very precise, which is exactly what you wrote making it impossible. I'd like to ask a promoter who obviously can't parley here today with the MPs, because he didn't even show up, and I'd like to ask the promoter to consult that law, to see that they're wrong. That is why I need to warn the Serbian government that it is finally beginning to read its laws to the MPs. We read them, so we know what is written in them. What you wrote is in direct conflict with a law called the Food Safety Act. Check and accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48316	Thank you. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48317	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 and have requested a change of terms. The billmaker used one term that does not correspond to Serbian. It's about the term "humidor." I looked in a dictionary of foreign words, I couldn't find it. I ask the question – what will be the one who reads this law in practical application and does not know what it is? This is not the first case, often in the termology that we get from the promoter we get certain foreign terms that not only correspond to the legal system, but also to the language system of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I suggested that instead of the word "humidor" I use sentences, because I don't have an adequate word, we may have, but the billmaker had to find it if it exists in Serbian and instead of using the word "humidor" the phrase "space for storage and storage of tobacco". In the SRS' view, this is a real term that corresponds to the spirit and the law and the Serbian language. I will continue as an authorised representative under this law. I'm going to address the finance minister from the aspect of this bill's proposal. Namely, the bill has been in the assembly procedure since August of this year. It was appropriate for this law to be discussed when we discuss the budget, i.e. a set of tax laws, because we know from the means of informing that under the set of these tax laws there will be a law on excise duties. It was appropriate for it to be in it. Why is it inserted now that it's not his time, but we're using and wasting time on some laws that represent less significant laws? These are cosmetic changes, changes that won't bring anything new, nothing important, instead of talking seriously about the budget, because it's time for the budget as of November 1st. The assembly was due to receive a draft budget and all supporting regulations and taxes and excise duties and any other rules that go into the budget set. Even more tragic is the situation around the tobacco industry's position. The tobacco industry is privatized from the intelligence of this country. Why? Because with the sale of two tobacco industries, two plants, two factories that were processing and producing tobacco products, this country sold during 2003 and 2004, and the market, which is devastating, contrary to the interests of this country, which is contrary to international law, which is the opposite of domestic legislation. Why is the SRS talking about selling the market, selling these systems that are now in foreign hands? Because the finance minister and almost the entire government were busy a week of pressure from monopolies who entered the government and said you have no right to increase your income. Monopolies nowhere in the world and never enter the state institution and say – you can't increase because it doesn't suit us. In which country did one producer come and say – you have no right to increase? What are we gonna do? We'll shut down the plants, shut down the production, move it out, etc. Let them go, but you made it possible for them, in addition to selling the market, you put them in a difficult position for producers who were 20,000 in that period in 2003, 2004, there were about 20 thousand. There were total processors and buyers and those who worked in the tobacco industry system about three to three and a half thousand, so hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens lived from the tobacco industry. The tobacco industry was prosperous and it had a surplus in foreign trade, it had plants that fit world standards. What do we have today? Today we have six thousand tobacco producers. These others who are up to 20,000 are driven out of the market. These are more or less peasant holdings, which are traditionally 150 years old, 100 years, 50 years old, produced, worked, etc. They have a tradition in tobacco production. They're expelled, they're all broken contracts. The villagers had to go to court, seek protection from the judicial system, and nearly half of those contracts were eventually resolved in their favour. The tobacco industry, the monopolies who took it, paid off all that because it doesn't suit them that the Serbian peasant produces. What is the situation of those, you could read it this year and earlier, when the excise policy was changing, when the conditions of the ransom and the surface area were being sown in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The comments came because our manufacturer could not handle an economic and market game and a financial game with the same producer in the region and the world. Why? Because this country's subsidies are very low. They are now at 200 euros, compared to Croatia, where, given that they have two types of fees, one is on a given kilo, and the other is on agricultural land, between 400 and 600 euros, so take 200 euros, 600 euros, how to compete. What do we have on the other side? We have an open market for tobacco products from the Republic of Croatia. I'll tell you one percent. Since 2003, the participation of the tobacco industry in Croatia has increased from 8.2 to more than 13% this year. What's the trend going to be in the future? An even greater involvement of the Croatian industry. Why are we creating preconditions for the Croatians to sell here, so that they can freely enter this market? Here, this delegation that was, first of all, it needs to put everything that's going on in the tobacco industry, not talking about refugees, etc., but in the second part of the discussion, I'm going to talk about it. Why are we allowing the Croatian tobacco industry to work on our market? Just because lobbying circles within the government since 2000 have allowed the tobacco industry to enter our market, develop etc. You drive our peasants out of production and, on the other hand, make it possible for their peasant to be sold through certain benefits, which the Croatian state can attract and our peasant cannot. The economic and financial game in which our peasant works is such that he can't bring himself to harm. As a result, they have reduced the participation of 20,000 agricultural holdings now, our thousands. Here is now a convenient opportunity, Mrs Dragutinovic, to correct these anomalies that the SRS has been talking about for almost ten years. We're potential now. Increase subsidies to agriculture, cooperatives, commercial chambers of various branches from agriculture and food industries demand increased budget participation from 3% to 5%. It's not a small percentage. It's not small funds, but it can't be done without. In a normal, economic competition without the country's quality participation, without the state's financial assistance, there is no help. You know that very well. How to find and create? Here we go through an increase in excise duties. Our excise duties are twice as much as excise duties in the region and three times less than they are in Europe. For what? Because monopolies don't allow you to increase excise duties. Imagine that absurd thing about someone who bought one drive here so he wouldn't let the state run its own integrated fiscal policy. Is that what there is in one country? It doesn't exist. Mrs Dragutinović, this is an anomaly that you must correct. Do you know what problems you have in functioning the fiscal system? Well, can you imagine someone setting you up, coming from the side and determining you can't increase or you can increase? It's only because you and your predecessors made harmful contracts, punishable even by the international law that sold the market. Correct it, change it. Make it possible for a Serb peasant to work and do business under the same conditions, as is done by peasants and legal persons in the region and in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48318	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Finance Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle both in detail and in general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Games of Happiness (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by Members of the People: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Štović, Dragan Stevanovic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dižan Žaljan Žalić, Mirić, Ilić Žarić, Mirić Žajić, Mirić, Iližić Žalić, Mirić, Ilić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before we move on to a search in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 163(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is Article 2. Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments of the People's MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric, who together submitted to Members of the 3rd and People's MP Zoran Ostojić on Article 5. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48319	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, one of the main grudges of the Progressive Serbian SNS group refers to the distribution of 40% of the gambling funds that are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This amendment is fully compatible with the amendment that we have submitted to Article 7 of this proposal. A fifth of the 40% of the budget's revenue is also too much money that, applying this law, will end up on the accounts of only one number of associations registered to improve the socio-economic and social position of disabled people. However, who and by what criteria will implement the allocation of these funds? Who will exercise control over whether these funds have ended with permanent users, those who are both dedicated and necessary, or have they ended up with people with disabilities? There is no public interest in such a legal solution. I rightly doubt that there is only the possibility that private interest and interest can be achieved to help with the various relatives, friends and party colleagues meet some of their needs, not to meet the needs of people with disabilities. If you want to make sure that these funds come to people with disabilities, do not pay them and direct them to other associations but only to persons with disabilities. It is the only way we will get the situation for almost every building in Serbia to have access to people with disabilities. It will only succeed in doing horizontal and vertical signalling on all public surfaces, which will improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. In my humble opinion, these other associations that you make this legal solution and whose good intentions I don't want to doubt in advance, these associations need to create their own means to help people with disabilities, and not like this, to serve only as guides, or to unite jobs, to redistribute the funds that you transfer from the RS budget. Is this how you send a message that this huge government that is one of the largest, not only in the region but also in the whole world, there are not enough officials who in one transparent way, through transparent criteria, will distribute funds collected from gambling. The grant of funds to other associations always comes true and opens up the possibility of their non-intentional and irrational spending, which is very difficult to control. We are also witnessing concrete cases of fund abuse, which is another reason to accept our amendment, because if you accept this SNS suggestion, disabled people whose protection is part of money from gambling and intended as end-users, will not be damaged because all funds will be given to their associations and will not be reduced by funds that would be given to others by difolt party associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48320	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, with this amendment, we wanted to give you a chance to be socially responsible. Since this government is declared socially responsible, we had a budget or budget rebalance in the assembly a few days ago and you were talking to the government and parliamentarians that this rebalancing is in the function of the government's social responsibility and that most of the funds go for those purposes. With this amendment, we wanted 80% of the funds that the state has as a budget revenue from gambling to go for social purposes, especially for the Red Cross, that is to raise the social, economic standard or the position of people with disabilities, etc. What is essential for the SRS, however much the state in this income is relying on these revenues, is what you wrote in the light of this law, which is that this business and this activity in Serbia are actually about expansion. It is sad and sad when this activity and this job in a country that wants to consider itself and promotes itself as serious, and it is all but not, this activity is brought into context with greenfield investments, with economic development, with the development of tourism, etc. We think it's a sign that a light bulb is lit above the head of those who deal with both the economic and social opportunities of this country. It's sad that this action is gambling, betting, etc. in Serbia in expansion, but since that's how we tried to be socially responsible, as you like to say, and to devote 80% of the resources that the state raises on this basis to the purposes that objectively in Serbia deserve, which are social giving. In your explanation, you called for state practice to be 40% and 60% to be given for other purposes. If you would already refer to countries in the environment, then there is much that in the environment is not the same as in the law that you have brought before us MPs. There are other things that have been seriously resented by the various associations of these gambling organizers, some of the provisions that you introduce into the law, and they are also calling for this practice of countries in the environment, or countries on the European continent, so they say that much is not limited and defined there as it is in this law. We don't mind being rigorous in this sphere of state, in one positive context, and we don't mind the state collecting income, but we do have against the state spending money the way this country spends it, so we suggest that 80% of the income, I repeat, that you make from games fortunately given to social benefits to improve the social, economic situation of disabled people, or all those who need social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48322	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48323	Article 2 is very important from the social aspect. The government says for itself that it is socially responsible and astounds the socially responsible government, written in big letters, that it does not accept what Serbian radicals propose, which is to increase those resources that go for social purposes. In fact, Article 2 amended the provisions of the earlier law, and this proposal suggests that the funds of 40%, which is the state's income, are purposely directed at 20% to finance the Red Cross, the organisation of persons with disabilities, the institution of social protection, sports and units of local self-government. The SRS is not against the allocation of funds to both local self-government and sports organisations, but here the bill's proposal is completely different from the SRS's intentions. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, have denied the local self-government of 36.8 billion dinars for the last two years, which are clearly fixed at a percentage of 1.7 GDP. It's a income belonging to local self-government and it has to belong to local self-government. It is 400m euros that have been denied local self-government. Yesterday there was a round table on funding local self-government. It won't be 1.7 again. This is a direct violation of the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government. How long is that? How long to break something that's legally established? Change the law. Change the law, but you can't break it. How do you require a citizen to be forced to carry out all his obligations in terms of the execution of taxes, contributions, fees, taxis and everything that citizens and legal persons pay for, and you are the first to violate the provisions of the law? Since you don't have room for manoeuvres in your budget, we will finance through this law through this law. You can't do that. It's clear how it's financed, 1.7, and there's the end of the story. You can alternatively provide funds based on other legal regulations, but first you must comply with the parent law, which is the Law on financing local self-government. That's the way it is with sports. That's right with the other associations. I have proposed that on behalf of the SRS, organisations representing organisations of particular importance be inserted into the Commissioner for Refugees. Why the Refugee Commissioner? Because the Refugee Commissioner is funding a population group that isn't small. These are refugees who have over 80,000 and internally displaced persons who have 250,000. Neither internally displaced faces return to KIM nor refugees return to Croatia. For what? For discrimination, because of terrorism in both Croatia and KIM, that is the basic reason. Now a little bit about finance. In the last five years, the budget stands out somewhere between 950 and a billion and 500 million dinars to the Refugee Commissioner. If we said there were 250,000 internally displaced persons and 80,000 refugees, then we get to the 330,000 subscribers of this Commissioner. It's about 3,000 dinars per internally displaced or refugee. With 3,000 dinars, it takes a year. Mrs Dragutinović, if you agree, it's no means at all. As a result, the SRS proposal to include in these organisations a Commissioner for Refugees to distribute budget funds to those persons, in terms of maintaining the social existence of internally displaced and refugees. What's your answer? The Commissioner for Refugees can't. They don't need it. Refugees and internally displaced persons because of the government's narcissistic policy, I have to say nakaradic, because there is no policy, no strategy for refugee returns and internally displaced persons. There's no going back. We even have the other way around. We have data from Croatia, we get it every year. At the end of the year when we add it, we see that it returns from Croatia from 3,500 to 4,000, and in Croatia it goes about 1,500 to 1,800 members of Serbian nationality. We have a reverse process. For what? For discrimination. What does the government do to ensure the free and safe return of refugees to their hearth? Nothing. Discrimination is open at work. This delegation that was here today must be said, but there is no one to say it, because official state policy says – Tadic was in Vukovar, apologized, was in Zagreb and also apologized. What is this policy about? We don't have any open problems, the return procedures are over. That's not true. Serbs must not return to Croatia. That's the basic rule. Why does the state of Serbia not have a return strategy? Why isn't there a strategy to help these people? It's not just 330,000. Another 350,000 has been integrated and integrated into the RS state system. How do these faces live? Not at all. In social distress. Insinuation. Their property is there, and they're here. Make it possible for these people, it can only be a state, individually no one can. The government of Republika Srpska, whose head I am, every other day informs the state authorities about what is happening to Serbs in Croatia, open terror, open discrimination, driving from work, preventing the achievement of basic life rights. Neither the rights to action nor the rights of tenants, pensions and benefits, what they belong to in former federal laws, republican laws, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international law, etc. It's not gonna happen. What President Tadic is doing is tragic for Serbian national interests. For years, the government of Republika Srpska has indicated – only allow what belongs to us under international law, according to agreements signed between the two countries, the 1996 Agreement on the Normalisation of Relations, the Social Insurance Agreement. Make it possible for these people to receive pensions they were denied from 1991 to 1998. That's billions of euros, Mrs Dragutinovic. Budget deficit, let's just pool those funds. That's billions of euros. Actions, neither those people received shares in Croatia nor were they given in Serbia. It's discrimination against these people, etc. You can't fill in, Mrs Dragutinovic, you can't fill the budget with a bill like this. In practice, we received information, and you can get this information from other state authorities, a total of 17,000 appliances imported into this country. Ten thousand machines are unregistered. Who enjoys the benefits of income they earn? Only monopolies allowed to import and use these appliances, not pay taxes. All 7,000 appliances are reported neatly and charges for use or tax are paid. Two-thirds is in the gray zone. We've received information that 256 grand of income is on this basis. Here, two-thirds is on the black market, put in that 500 million, half the deficits you've taken down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48324	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48325	The essence of Article 2 is how do the 40% funds, which are actually revenue from the budget, aim towards some organisations that need assistance in society? We do not want to say at all that all of these organizations that are listed here, which are listed by the proposer, are not the ones to which society should provide special assistance, but we felt that this list should be extended to both organisations and associations whose aim is to improve the position of women and children. Why did we put up with it as an amendment? First of all, these organisations that are involved in improving women's positions are actually in line with government policy and in line with those documents that the government has brought. These changes we have proposed in the amendment are in the spirit of specific measures to achieve gender equality and to develop equal opportunities policy in the Republic of Serbia. We wanted to formulate it this way, precisely because many organisations involved in improving the position of women and who felt that we needed to help them achieve this intention. For this reason, the DSS has used its parliamentary right to submit this amendment on behalf of these people and on behalf of those women. Why did we propose to help organisations whose goal is to improve the position of children? We had in mind the fact that the amendments and additions of this law on gambling are initiated and the pressure of society, that one part of the population, minors, introduce additional protection measures and that, apart from the ban on participation in gambling, which was in the previous law, in changes and additions to bans and entry into areas where gambling is played. We had in mind and the fact that a very high-quality research that says that 60% of young people don't read, half of them never went to the theater, 40% of young people don't do sports. We had in mind the fact that 11% of young people who go to bookies become addicts. It's one of the problems our society has to deal with. You know there are also rehab counselling centres and professional assistance in that area. We had a lot of things in mind when it comes to underage people and when it comes to young people, precisely because this law is a real example of hypocrisy, that on the one hand you want to deal with this population, and on the other hand, you don't want to help them with those things that concern material help organisations that are doing just that. This is fully in line with what the government, according to its European values, has defined three million dinars from the Ministry of Education's budget for the pride parade, but at the same time has not defined funds for those young people who have been strikein' before the government and asked the government to help them with their registrations and payments for years. These are the best students who cleaned up the year, who had a high average and who, because of the government's neglect and because of how the Ministry of Education when the law was passed here, that is to say, amending and supplementing the law, were misrepresented to that population, so that it was found in some cleavage. As a result, the DSS, which in several laws and on several occasions submitted amendments that it actually wants and should protect the population of minors and young people, submitted this amendment. We'll see, this is where you rejected the amendment, explaining it in a really weird and funny way. You say - the amendment is not accepted, given that the Law on Games on Happiness, in the part relating to the distribution of part of the funds made on the basis of gambling fees, which are the revenue of the Republic's budget, is prescribed for the purpose of using dedicated budget receipts. In accordance with the provisions of Article 18. The law on gambling, these funds are allocated to 20% of each user. If the number of users of these funds is increased, this would result in a reduction in the resources received by current users. All right, the society represented by Mr Cvetkovic and Mrs Dragutinović, defending this law and amendments submitted by MPs, has defined that the population of minors and young people do not need it at all. Their socio-economic and social status is satisfactory in the opinion of these gentlemen. According to the DSS, he's embarrassed. He's a disgrace. That is why we believe that it must be repaired, even if you will help associations involved, as well as associations dealing with women and achieving the objectives of equal participation and equal opportunities policy. On the one hand, you're propagating something by law, on the other hand, when the means need to be divided and something's working, then you're showing your true face. It's called hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48326	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48327	Thank you. Article 3 changes practically the existing Article 10 of this Act. In Article 10, some seven points of different prohibition are listed when it comes to attracting and participating in gambling. Our amendment refers to point 5. The current point, i.e. before this proposal was amended and complemented, was that minors are prohibited from participating in special gambling. That's how it stands now in the existing and applicable law. What the promoter of these changes and additions has seen, and in fact this has been a major problem in practice, is that minors sometimes do not participate in certain games of happiness or special gambling, they live in such rooms. That change and supplementation is completely justified. What is our intervention through the amendment? We're just a little bit different to rephrase this point, and we think that's better. We propose that point 5 is to prohibit the entry of minors into objects where special gambling is held, as well as the participation of minors in special gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48328	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48329	This is also the continuation of the previous amendment relating to institutions and institutions that should allocate these 40% of revenue that are revenue from the budget. Why the refugee commissioner? I already explained that. I'll continue the story on refugee status. Mrs Dragutinović, you must know that these funds you define for the Refugee Commissioner are insufficient. In particular, certain activities of the Refugee Commissioner, which is in line with the High Commissioner for Refugees of the UN Organisation, in 2011, 2012 should be closed by reception centres in which refugees and internally displaced persons are placed. It is a large number of people who are without an existential basis, who are without income, who are in poor health, who are disabled, etc., people with special needs, and tomorrow when they find themselves on the street, it is a question of their social and life survival. The state must solve this problem, and it is easiest to solve it along with international institutions. The Republika Srpska government has been in exile for years asking for more intensive involvement of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in solving these problems. This cannot be solved without the Croatian state, this cannot be resolved without international financial institutions. Instead of the fact that the Republic of Croatia, which has committed genocide and ethnic cleansing, is costing these people, makes it an impoverished Serbian state, it is tragic and you do nothing to refund all these funds that you make available by the Republic of Croatia, because this should be the expenditure of the Republic of Croatia. With internally displaced faces, too, do those faces come back, don't come back, where are they now? In private accommodation or in the same reception centers, when you lock them up, they'll be on the street. What do you expect from these people? That's what you need to think about. We are getting information that a donor conference will be held, the president has thus agreed with the president of Croatia, no donor conference that will meet the needs of 500-600 thousand people who have been expelled from their hearths from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. No donor conference held in the region was given, was sufficient to meet those needs. But the Republic of Serbia cannot stand still with its state authorities and be aware of all these facts. Mrs Dragutinovic, the easiest way to solve your budget deficit, I said in what way, to allow Serbs only what belongs to them under international law and under agreements signed by this state, just do it and you have a full budget. I'm sure you'll live for two or three years on those incomes that will be based on actions that Serbs failed to achieve, based on the tenant rights of Serbs and apartments there will be bought under the same conditions as the Croats bought out, it was somewhere between 90 and 110 marks at the time. Under the same conditions, Serbs will sell them, here are your incomes, it will return here in the financial system and to the welfare of this country and these people will not be social cases. On the other hand, we have outstanding pensions, etc., piles of money lying around, and you're not doing anything to help. You condemned us to individually solving these problems. There's no individual solving anything, you're aware of it. You have a chance, you have a chance, you make it possible for the Krajis, you make it possible for internally displaced persons to live a life of worthy men. Only with the engagement of the Republic of Serbia and its state institutions can we exercise our right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48330	You have eight minutes as an authorised representative and 31 minutes of the parliamentary group. What time do you want two minutes? As an authorised representative. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48331	Thank you, President. My colleagues and colleagues, the amendment to Article 7 essentially says the same thing as the amendment to Article 5, which the Administrative Committee rejected because it is incomplete. Why did he throw it away? In accordance with Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure, and Article 163(2), reads like this - The competent committee will reject the incomplete and offensive amendments, which will be reported to the National Assembly. Since this amendment requires the extension of the beneficiaries of the budgetary resources derived from gambling, I don't see what's offensive about it, what's incomplete. I also don't understand it, and I'm even less aware of where this report, which is required by the Committee, is the oral report of the Committee president. Anyway, we've been denied it, but we're moving on. We came to article 7, talking about the same things. We propose that dedicated revenue from the budget, from Article 5 of Article 2 of this Law, be allocated to the financing of the Red Cross of Serbia of 20%. You didn't hear me, but there was a procedural error. I don't know why my amendment is incomplete, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. But I see you have something to chat with the deputy secretary. So, the Red Cross of Serbia, worth 20%, has been so far; the Associations of Persons for Disabilities and Other Associations whose aim is to improve the social, economic and social situation of persons with disabilities and others in a state of social need - 20%, so far there has been no change; the social protection institution of 20%, and so far there has been no change; "amateur" sport of 17%, there is a change in the current law, and you propose to remain sport of 20%. So we add the word "amateur" and we take this amendment 3%. I'll explain why it's important to put on amateur sports instead of sports. The local self-government unit of 17% so far has been 20%, which means we're taking 3%. Who's got the 6% we've got? We give other associations, foundations and public-interest responsibilities, which are not covered by the position of point 2 of this article, of 6%? So, we are obliged to finance from the budget both associations and foundations dealing with public affairs and public interest. We think they belong in this law because, in the end, we are bound by the Law on Associations, Article 38. We think that this is important, especially in this post-transitional time, when foreign donors, from which these associations dealing with and protecting minority rights, animals, promoting human rights, etc., financed, are slowly leaving and we think that the introduction of competition into their work, competition of projects and competition for money from the budget can only be beneficial for this civil sector and, after all, on young people who work there. You have refused to accept an amendment explaining that it is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendment to Article 2. Now when I return to Article 2, let's say, the amendment of my colleagues, Buhe, who has also proposed extending the rights of users of these funds, you do not accept the amendment, as well as colleagues from the DSS, that is Amendment 4, because you say that Article 18 is prescribed to allocate 20% of the resources to users of the funds to each user. So, I propose to amend Article 18, introduce new users, and you say -- you don't accept, look at what we rejected earlier amendments, and it says there -- we rejected the earlier amendments because article 18 says everyone gets 20%. I'm proposing that we not all get 20%, but that we also put in associations, foundations and loans that act in the public interest. It's really amazing to me. I propose an amendment to article 18, and you say - you can't change Article 18, because article 18 says everyone gets 20%. I think someone could have tried to write some other argument, that we're not interested in, let's say, we can't give sport or units of local self-government that 3%, and we'll find other sources from the budget that the association and the foundations that deal with public interest activities will apply for money, but that's pointless. I've never heard of someone, essentially when we translate your argument, then he says -- we can't change, gentlemen of the Liberal Democratic Party, Article 18 because he writes something else. Just because it says something else, we're proposing an amendment. It's illogical, you'll admit, a little bit and comical. Why it's important to include amateur sports here. You know what, sport is a broad term. He's got athletes and athletes. I'll give you an example, which you may not know, which, if you don't insert amateur sports, will remain as a potential beneficiary of gambling finance. Let's say, football club Novi Pazar, a local club in Sandzak, you know who his sponsors are, Telecom and Galenika. Explain why Telecom and Galenika were completely unknown companies, no one heard of them, would give money to a low-class club. Or maybe Telecom and Galenika, for me it's a new piece of information, an unknown company in Sandzak. They don't work there. They've never heard of it, so it's got to be sponsored by a low-class club to get popularity or recognizability. And aside from monopolies, they have to sponsor themselves, give money that way. In any case, it is clear that these two public enterprises have become sponsors of the club because the club's president is Mr. Rasim Ljajic. He's obviously influential. That's why we suggest that instead of sports, we put amateur sports at 17 percent, so when amateur sports gets 17 percent of the dinars, instead of various sports that are basically this party sport or I don't know what other influences are semi-professional and professional, they get money, then it's going to be a lot more money for amateur sport. So, once again, an illogical explanation, I'm not saying that you had to accept this, but you could simply say that in another way they would finance, associations and foundations of public interest, but I'm sorry today you still think, so how can I say, we're not going to read and ask if someone was joking with us, or was lazy to write a clearer explanation or a more over-explanatory explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48332	The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48333	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have read the explanation why Mrs. Rajkov's amendment was accepted, and I am fully agreed that her amendment should be accepted, but the explanation is incredible. The Legislative Committee considered that the amendment was in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so it is concluded that this amendment was accepted. I guess these amendments of ours are in line with the Constitution and the law, especially with the law we're amending, but let's make it this one that the government and the resolution ministry decide on that. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia has very consistently changed Article 2 or Article 5 of the Old Law, a member of the new law, when we expanded the number of users to receive a redistribution of 40% of gambling revenues, and in Article 7 or Article 18 of the old law, we had a new redistribution. So there is no reason why the amendment is not accepted, yet we are returned to the amendment to Article 2. Essentially, what they say – if the number of users of these funds is increased, this would result in a reduction in the funds received by previous users. It is mathematically, in any case, but I have now calculated, because to remind the Democratic Party of Serbia has extended the list of users to organisations dealing with improving the position of women and organisations whose aim is to socially and economically improve the position of young people and children in Serbia. So with these two groups of organizations, we practically expanded the user list, but now that I've done some other math, how much would be reduced by all the other users, it turns out that only one user would reduce the amount, part of that budget, and that would reduce sports. We also thought that, you had to write, which is why we intervened here, considering that amateur sports is something that you should finance, not finance, cobajagi finance top sport, so that after the Minister of Sports and Youth, the picture with all the bearers of some titles, as the current conference after the Davis Cup was particularly interesting. The aforementioned minister, who talked about how she gave some money to top-notch sports, I'm not sure it was her money, I'm actually very sure it wasn't her money, it was Serbia's citizens' money. So here, by expanding the list, I made a new redistribution, to leave 20% to the Red Cross of Serbia as much as it was, to the organisations of persons with disabilities and other associations whose goal is to improve the socio-economic and social position of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need 20%, as you suggested, then to associations whose goal is to improve the socio-economic and social position of women and children, I took that away from this sport to whom you generously, some sport, put 20%. I'm not saying peoratically some sport, but you didn't define what you're going to finance in the context of sports and how you're going to do it. The other social security institutions 20%, so I'm absolutely within what you've drawn here, and it's just a matter of what your priorities are. On the most obvious example, you show that the priorities are neither women, nor minors, nor young people, it is completely uninteresting to you here, and this shows that this government, a political story about how important they are that young people even have a ministry, those who are going to do this work, actually end up at this propaganda level. When it comes to the fact that you are identified by some specific means to help minors and young people, and they are in the extremely poor, in a very large number, I simply don't know if you know whether every seven children in Serbia today are drinking a glass of milk, and therefore I insist that this category of association enters here, because obviously we only deal with children when they can enter a propaganda machine, when we take pictures in areas that are flooded, so as to put children, so embarrassingly both children and children who take pictures with children, and especially those who look at that picture. It's called child abuse for political purposes, and this is called hypocrisy, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48334	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 7th amendment together. National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48335	So this is the second amendment to the same article 18 by MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia, there have been interventions from other parliamentary clubs that should be extended to these organisations, for example from the Democratic Party of Serbia, that it should be extended to organisations dealing with the position of women and children, in order to enter this list, which would receive funds from the Games Fund. This particular amendment refers to the second position of this Member. It reads in the proposal: the way and criteria for the allocation of funds intended to fund the entities listed in this article are determined by the competent ministers. We suggest that the words "confirm the competent ministers" are deleted and that instead of "competent ministers", the government is "confirmed". The answer I got that were different circumstances in this country would be logical and acceptable. In fact, you replied to me that you consider this your solution better, that it is done by the competent ministers, since the resolution ministers can better determine the way and criteria for the distribution of dedicated resources within their competences. So if we were living in a different country and if the ministers in this government were different, if they were acting differently, I would absolutely accept this argument, or I wouldn't write this amendment, but in practice we have a different experience. When a minister takes, by the looks of it, a minister in some vault, he considers it his way. My colleague mentioned the already famous sports minister who is immediately at the press conference, after the fantastic victory of our tennis players at Davis Cup, said she would allocate so much and so much funds to those athletes, etc. In this woman used the first face of one, that is, me. The next day she was a guest in the morning program at the Public Service, where she apparently asked to be a guest so that she could explain these misunderstandings. Then by advertising herself and her party, the United Regions of Serbia talked about it, I quote -- I made 63 sports halls in Serbia. So it's not her, the minister can't use the first face of the one. Even if she said so – we would, then it would mean the ministry, but it would have to involve the citizens of Serbia, because specifically that lady has the resources of Serbian citizens. She's using budget funds. This is one example of how certain ministers in this government, every honour of exceptions, use unintendedly certain funds. That's why we have absolutely a reasonable doubt, if it stays within that one ministry, and where the decision will be, that there will be another abuse. In particular, the next year is a pre-election year, if we have regular elections, then there is again growing suspicion that the funds will be used to finance projects in those local self-governments where a political coalition is set at the will of the Serbian government in power. I think you should have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48336	The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48337	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike my opposition colleagues, the SNS approach is a little different. We are the view that the funds that are larger this year than gambling, which have become budgeted, are not enough to satisfy the interests of the various socially endangered groups. We felt that this article was too wide-ranging, that it leaves a lot of room for abuse and possibly accidental spending of these funds. Because some of the world's experiences, and I believe that none of us are in a different situation, suggest that only 50% of those funds that are meant for socially endangered groups really come to the users themselves, that a large part of these funds disappears from some magical pathways or is used to fund these associations themselves. This wide-ranging circle of users of these funds continues exactly in such a situation, that a very small portion of these funds will really go to those people who are really socially at risk. We are therefore in this Article 7, and my colleague Babic had more or less the same explanation for Article 2, because this repeats the same formulations, suggested that these funds go primarily to people with disabilities, because it seems to us today to be the most endangered social group. I think the members of the government are aware of that. I will refer to one minister, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who himself said that 70% of people with disabilities at the poverty border are a major problem in the employment of people with disabilities. Some shifts, thanks to the law passed some year and a half ago, were made in the previous year, but apparently the law in some rather aggressive way expects the private sector to employ people with disabilities, although they often lack adequate education. I have information that most of these people have only primary education, 50% actually disabled persons, and apparently, even in the field of education of this society, not to say this government, because the problems are certainly not from yesterday, they don't invest enough when it comes to people with disabilities. Given the current crisis, there is much more space to be devoted to people with disabilities. So what's the SNS proposal, I think it's pretty clear, is that from these assets that remain from making games of chance, first of all, honor, of course, the Red Cross. We're not against it, but people with disabilities should have priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48338	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48339	Social responsibility, precision, perfection of legal solutions, which are not only fair, but accessible to broad folk masses, was all demonstrated by the government in an explanation for not accepting this amendment. Since I am just a psychologist, my colleague Zlata Đeric, a colleague of Aleksandra Ilic's professor and pianist, we have not counted the views of this member well, so some numerical genius has triumphantly told us that Article 7 does not contain Article 8. So, 1-0 for the government's machines, it's an honor to have mastered the numbering of attitudes. But if your form was a stronger side, you missed the point, because the amendment suggested that the word "competent ministers" be replaced by the words "competent ministries". We have made it very clear that, with a huge number of activities that fall within the scope of ministers' affairs, together with ministers, together, more appropriate to make criteria for the distribution of the funds of dedicated receipts of gambling budgets are prescribed by ministries and services within these ministries, not ministers personally. During today's session is the best confirmation of this argument. At 10.00 a.m., there were no government representatives, the debate moved to exactly noon, like Gary Cooper, in order to reach a consensus after the kind finance minister's oral promise, which, besides the budget, must deal with tobacco and gambling, to finally work at 12.30 p.m. If that were an exception, not a rule, it would probably be possible to see through our fingers, but it has become an unwritten rule that ministers are literally hard to make them attend, let alone enter the debate, and therefore I suggest that the numerical genius who counted the views of this member count the hours we spent here in vain waiting for the government's Godo, and the money they had to single out Serbian citizens for it. Otherwise, by the way, if you had a linguistic genius, he would have turned down our amendment, because instead of "personal" it says "porsonal."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48340	Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48341	Well, this shift puts a foreign factor in the games of chance. But in order to explain why I don't think that's necessary, here I am going to take the lead. Mrs Dragutinović, here is a list of those who stage games you call betting, 22 directors, 1,220 locations where people try their fate, happiness, etc. Then we're going to the second variant: automatics -- 77 editors, 1.822 locations, 17.806 machines registered, and as your over ten thousand unregistered machines have said. So there's no confusion, I'm reading all your paperwork. It's too bad Veljko Odalovic's gone, but good. Here's the rhombola, you've got 48, ends Risto and the sons of Zrenjanin. You don't have an accurate record, Mr. Jodzic. If you'd ask me about all these records, I could count you down. But you know very well. Now, let's go to the toy list: one - Grand Casino, Boulevard Nikola Tesla number 3, said it's a hotel, but let's go to Grand Casino. Now, "Grand Casino," that's what we're going to do with Article 16, then I'm going to explain to you how you want to hide their crime or capital, and since there's no difference in Serbia between capital and crime, then you understand. Furthermore, then we have Serbia's state lottery in the game of luck "Loto - 7 of 39", it's not what Milan Dimitrijevic would say 15 out of 25, how the government's reconstruction goes, then TV "Bingo", then "Joker", "Serbia – lot", Post-Serbia, "Print System", "Futura Plus", go after him, "Korner Shot", and then Serbian State lottery agents in the game "Moto", Mobile Phone Serbia in 1992, Raduku was this of cigarettes in Resnik, well. Telenor, VIP mobile. I'm reading on, for the public. Laboratorys in the Republic of Serbia that are authorised to issue a certificate on the safety of the apparatus: two. Next, I want to leave you for the end, a list of authorised legal entities for the technical examination and repair of apparatus that have the authority of the manufacturer of the apparatus. A total of 22 companies, a list of lawyers authorised by the Ministry of Finance for determining technical regularity and repairing machines for gambling and tables. He's got a legal name, he's got a total of 45. The prize game in goods and services, the list of those who reported it to your administration ends with the number 115 - OK "Red Star". And how many are there that are advertised, which is on TV, which is on the radio, which is at the front door of the big store, so I don't talk to you. There's everyone. Imagine, too, "The Official Messenger" d.o.o. and he participates in the game of goods and services as a donor, under some of course conditions. Well, you see, we've never done anything too much of this, counting on it, so it's something people play around so they try their luck, if they can make money, but big money's spinning around. And there's money being laundered, and you all know it. What's going on with us? Who goes into bookies and what they do, so I don't tell you. Large, largely, significant resources are in this, the state has decided to seduce some order to take some and it can, and then we are offered a solution that we will five times 20% of what belongs to the state to divide for humanitarian purposes. So there's all kinds of social groups, like hiding out for what might be the most important thing. When another right is added to that which you give to this Article 9 to the Serbian State lottery, and when the Serbian State lottery is said, my first association is Bojan Kristo. Do you know who Bojan Kristo is? Wherever there's a crime, it's out. You haven't trusted us in years, Todorovic, I don't know, a year he's been talking about Bojan Kristo, after a year you admit what Bojan Kristo is doing. What's there, they say it's been set up, who's got the main premiums, who's this, who's the one who made the television, not to tell you, crime to crime. And basically, we're here now talking about criminal rule, that in all cultures of society, you're greedy, who basically have these criminal activities, and we live with it. Today, it is no wonder that in the National Assembly there is talk of a segment of society, of some activity and is said to be criminal. It's standard. That's understood. It's a etalon. Today would really be an exception if something was done by law, you know. When you say – well done, you have done it according to the law, TVs turn on immediately, people listen, what is the law in this country. All past the law. This is a monoton debate, I suggest you open up some new prize games or this event, this betting, etc. First, we can bet who's gonna be vice president of the DS. Interestingly, we have quotas. So we can bet that an MP will mention milk or apples in his speech no matter what the subject is. So we can bet if Mirko Cvetkovic could put together a cabinet session at the Arena on Saturday after all the ministers were there. He doesn't have to make phone bills. Well, we can bet why people from the government were at a tennis match, nobody liked tennis as much as they saw a racket, so they say what we know about this. This device is very familiar to us. You know, we can put everything on now, that's very interesting. Absolutely interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48342	Mr. Krasic, a sense of humor, please keep that level of vocabulary in line with the needs of this tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48343	My words have been properly chosen, Mrs. Djukic. Wait a minute, you're always applauding me and Serbia's going down, I know it. My dictionary is extremely good. But I'm not in charge of telling you what you'd like. That's where we're at.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48344	Don't get on with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48345	Well, you're with me...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48346	Please, don't take it easy on me, I'll give you a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48347	Okay. We'll have to look the other way. So, respected citizens of Serbia, you can bet on the will. The only thing you're sure of is who believed DOS, he died. If you don't believe me, turn around and look around. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48348	Does Mrs. Zlata Djeric want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48349	Dear President, Madam Minister, since we have submitted the amendment in the same text, which my colleague Krasic has said very convincingly and explained and we are as surprised as he is that the amendment has not been accepted. I think we agree on that. I'll read the brief explanation that we gave for the amendment and that explanation that you refused the amendment. We have said that we believe that Serbia's State lottery is perfectly capable of self-administering classical gambling, especially in co-operation with domestic organisations to produce such games, and that co-operation with foreign organisations established by foreign governments would not contribute to a better quality organisation, and we believe that our country's faster entry into the desired EU. Your explanation for the refusal of amendments that are not accepted says this: "The amendment is not accepted since the new Article 19a of the law gives the possibility to the Serbian State lottery to play classic gambling in co-operation with foreign gambling organisations established by the foreign state in order", this is very important, "attraction of as many participants in these gambling games and these attractive gains as possible due to a very high fund of gains". Translated to the language of everyday life that means attracting as many gullible citizens as possible, taking as much money as possible and sharing that money with a foreign investor, imagine, which is cynicism, in games of happiness in this country, where happiness has long been lacking and in vain hope and in vain these games try to write letters to the gods waiting for some easier gain. We have seen gambling in this country abuse and turn into a narrow circle of winners only those who organize these games. Now we're going to be in the games of chance, we've seen what RTS did with those games of luck, we've seen what everyone's been doing, we haven't seen anything that this gambling mob is anywhere driven against the wall or punished, but in this circle of the winners of happiness we're including foreign investors, when we're not already drawn to investing in our economy, our production, our workers, let's draw them to us easily at least that part of hard-earned money. Article 19 exists precisely because of them and because of it. Otherwise, you have in the world what – it's hard to make just the first million, the rest of it goes easy, or don't ask me never for the first million, the rest of it goes easy. This first million can now all foreign investors, or we can say, white-world investors, make it very easy to acquire an opera in Serbia, which will become soft for such jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48350	National MP Nenad Prokic submitted an amendment with a correction to Article 10 and a proposal to add Article 11. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48351	These changes suggest demonopolising gambling, via telecommunications, the Internet and SMS services and others. For six years, Serbia's state lottery has a monopoly on these gambling games, and in fact it does not exist in Serbia. We suggest that it be released under strict, strict conditions and private capital, when the Serbia State lottery has not developed this way of gambling and automatics, and that the first licenses to use telecommunications in gambling would only be granted by those who already have the approval, i.e. the license to perform special gambling, through betting and automatics, and that they would pay 30,000 euros in dinar equivalent to playing games via the Internet, 20,000 euros in dinar counter-values for the production of telephone services, fixed or mobile services, and 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent for staging through other telecommunications services or 60,000 euros in compensation that implies all of these approvals and that the approval is valid for a period of three years. The editor pays a fee for making gambling, a betting type, through a telecommunications infrastructure of 1,000 euros per month in dinar equivalent to a telecommunications service. We are certainly proposing with this member, so this second member is added beyond 22, 22a, that if the Internet and other providers are not authorised or authorised by the Board of Games, banks and other legal entities are prohibited from paying all other financial transactions to domestic and foreign editors, if they do not have a licence from the administration. In addition, one subsequent amendment, we propose to tighten control and facilitate the closure of those editors who do not have permission, all in order to put this resource into operation after all. Let the bill say that in these six years private capital has been entered here and that the State lottery of Serbia d.o.o. through the law does not continue as a monopoly, that over 10m euros in budget revenues have been lost in these six years. With all the awareness that this cube or betting in this way, when you can from home, that it is more dangerous, probably socially dangerous, and that the legislator, or government, has rejected our amendment, we also remind you of these positive experiences of European countries such as Belgium, Sweden, Portugal, Great Britain, Malta. You are in an explanation that you refuse to say that there is a discretionary right for every country to impose more restrictions on the EU, that there is more fraud, money laundering, through this kind of betting and gambling, that through this kind of gambling increases the involvement of organised crime. Excuse me, these arguments say we are unable to control that segment, and then we give up budget income because the State lottery of Serbia d.o.o. is unable to put into operation that resource. We think that we need to put ourselves into function, sharpen regulations and allow the private sector to enter, when the State lottery is already in no condition, despite being aware that, let me say, it's more dangerous, we think that by tightening the rules and making it easier for those who operate without permission, it can be overcome. Now, if you're talking about organized crime and money laundering, if it's somewhere in the government's explanation that some proposal by a MP was said to be suitable for money laundering, then what kind of state are we? Money laundering is everywhere. What do you think that came out of the heart of the New Market Telecom and Galenici? I didn't mention that segment, but there are institutions, there are laws and there's a fight against crime, corruption, money laundering, organised crime is a regular activity of the state. It can't be because there's a greater danger of that, and now we say - then we're not going to do it and leave the state without budget revenues, to someone who's going to deal with it, to risk it. It's not exactly a safe job. They have to be paid pretty much, according to our proposal, big fees for the license in the area. The respect of the law is provided by others. What are we going to do now, all of us, sit down and say, this is impossible, because it can come to this or that? Let the money launder, see what goes through these documents on arms dealers. There's big money, and in the cube, and especially in this poor and poor Serbia, I doubt there could be any big money. We suggest, in accordance with the conditionality of our liberal principles, that we let private capital try to fertilize here. Whoever finds interest, he risks his money, and the state can only benefit. It can't be an explanation that it's more subject to crime than some other gambling. We think that in a situation where budget deficits are so much that we're in debt, we're a little bit of a bit of a guarantee vote. Each source of revenue, with a reduction in the cost of the state, is also beneficial for the budget and for the beneficiaries of money from the social assistance budget to the others. We're sorry that with one stereotype explanation, this was rejected. In essence, one inefficient and dysfunctional monopoly of the Serbian state lottery d.o.o. It continues to exist, from which citizens have no use at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48352	The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS always responds to such solutions, namely solutions that give the minister the right to prescribe general acts. We believe that the only state administration, meaning the authorities of the state administration, have the right to prescribe regulations, sublegal acts and a few proceedings are pending before the Constitutional Court, the procedures for repealing such decisions. We believe that the minister is not definitely an authority of the state administration and is not a public authority holder. It can only be the Ministry. The bottom line of our amendment is that instead of a minister, it's a ministry. We also find it inappropriate to state the exact name of the ministry. We often have a different number of ministries with the formation of each government, so we are expected to be reconstructed by the government. It may be that these jobs will be entrusted to another minister after the reconstruction and there is no reason to specify exactly the ministry, but only the area of jurisdiction, possibly when it comes to legal solutions. Therefore, we think it is high time that legislators pay attention to this issue and that in some future period we have legal solutions that will fully comply with the laws on state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48354	Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48355	We have submitted an amendment to Article 10, where we asked to replace the "Minister of Finance" in the 7th position with the words "Minister of Telecommunications and Minister of Finance". We believe that despite the extraordinary skills and knowledge in the area of finance, it is difficult to include in the numerous obligations of this minister and the regulation of the near conditions and ways of throwing games on the Internet, telephone or other telecommunications connections, before the area of telecommunications is within the authority of the other ministry. Even if sublegislative acts provide for closer conditions and the way in which gambling is organised, it is still necessary to do so in the co-operation of telecommunications and finance minister. So we felt that this is the most comprehensive legal solution to be introduced into a member of the law, first of all, that these most modern forms of communication have proved to be the most appropriate and fastest in the abuse of gambling, and we have all witnessed these abuses in various ways recently. We are all witnessing that the games have been fortunate, ever since they were established by a French king in time to save a country that was in front of bankruptcy, they have become the right way for every country to try to tear itself up, but when the state does it, there could still be something more understanding, but when individuals have a cape and protection of the state, and they do that, it's very dangerous for the people. I will briefly refer to the previous amendment that you have refused, which concerns article 19, which is introduced by Article 19a. I just want the citizens to remember that this article 19a will often be mentioned when there is a great deal going on in the future about gambling abuses. By introducing Article 19a, or by refusing our amendment to delete this member for one time international crime in gambling in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48356	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Djeric, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48357	I will briefly explain this amendment to which we asked for Article 12 to be deleted, or we believe that because of the transparency in work, as well as the control of possible abuses, it is necessary for the determination of profits to be made public. We think that it is in Serbia at this point one way to perhaps get in the way of those who are playing luck, the despair of these citizens who are growing every day, being abused. So, winners can be protected in various ways. We have seen that Article 19a is brought in to make winnings more attractive, so that as many citizens as possible become involved in these games. I think that transparency in one profit law, and we've seen how it's possible and we can play it, right around those text messages on RTS, when it's been giving cars every night and what's going on, we think that one transparency would be welcomed in the law like this by a member of the law that exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48358	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48359	Article 14 introduces two categories of gambling, those basic classic games and other classic games and makes a big difference when it comes to winning funds. For these first ones, the winning fund is estimated to be 50%, and for these other ones, the winnings fund from the former 50% is reduced to only 10%. It seems inappropriate for us to see the fund of winnings in the event of gambling being only 10%, and to see, in this account, what you've given us in this article's explanation, that, for example, the organizers of such games would have almost twice as much money. So from about 20% of their profits, they'd jump to 36% to make the state make about 240 million dinars to increase its revenue. I don't see why players of such games would have any interest in participating in them, but it does usually refer to some SMS lottery. So far, they've had no real insight into it, or what the winning fund is, or what the payment is. I think a legal solution like this, no matter what it looks stimulating for the budget, is going to be very detimulative for the citizens, so what you've predicted to earn from these gambling games is going to lose, because they won't be attractive when it comes to people who have defined themselves as games of chance. On the other hand, what seems to us is that in some way, the state has allowed itself to be compromised in this way and this proposal, that this is kind of a kind of gambling of players and one manipulation of people is being done. It's totally inappropriate if you already think gambling isn't welcome, if it's some dirty business, if it's some kind of parasiteism. I don't think this country should have compromised itself because of its petty incomes. That's what we've predicted with our amendment. So keep 50% of the winnings. I guess that's stimulating for players. It's something that's perfectly normal. Let's not make fun of and make up some profit that's certainly not going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48360	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SRS consider – although in the light of the specific legal nature of the games of chance, as we have arranged in our legal system, the fact that bringing up games of happiness is an action, as we have said by law, of general interest to the Republic, which within the Republic's financial system provides the missing funds to meet certain needs of wider social interest – that it was necessary to either maintain the existing situation or predict that the maximum 50% of the total value of the lucky emissions can go to players or to those, as we call them so-called gamblers, who may not be in the right sense of that word, in the winning fund as the law says, and that the rest goes to Serbia's budget. You have earlier in the law that we are changing had the view that at least 50% of the total value of the emissions of the lucky or accepted payments for participation in the game, and at least, so it stood, could go into the budget for the players, which means that it could have gone even more. Now you say at least 50, and we say it should be 50 at most. Your argument that this is detimulative simply doesn't stand because people from different motives resort to games of happiness, and the fact is that in the past we've faced various frauds that people, without any perspective, have no hope of any better tomorrow, not having the means to live and the last 50, 100 dinars, 30 dinars, I don't know how much they give for some game of happiness, at some point of enlightenment hope that it will solve all their problems that can't objectively solve with their work or their knowledge or any other way. No matter what the gain is, believe me, today is such poverty in Serbia, although the maximum profit in any game is, say, 50,000 dinars, you would have the same number of payments. People don't go to the maximum, let's become millionaires. Today a million is nothing. You can't buy a single "full" for a million dinars. Therefore, there is no reason for the government to reject our amendment in order to be democratic and to have less revenue in the budget. We'd have the same revenue in the budget. People resorted to both horoscopes and various returnees in those difficult times, and also today because they seek happiness somewhere where they can't unfortunately find it, and they don't have a country to turn to, to solve their problems, or to come to work, to live from their work, and then try to provide some funds for themselves and their family. That's it. I think you could at least do some research on that, so if you told us it wasn't, we'd get less money if your amendment was adopted. Now, you're guessing that fewer of them would resort to gambling if the amendment were accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48362	The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48363	In Article 15, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have the treatment of permits and it introduces certain restrictions that are totally unacceptable and which lead to the monopolization of this area and this activity. So, the restriction on any right to register is for those who have already dealt with this business and who have been throwing gambling for at least five years. We believe that there are no arguments in the explanation for such a solution, that this in some way represents the abolition of some of the rights that the Constitution lays down, the rights relating to entrepreneurship. What the law and the Constitution says is that, possibly if it is about protecting human health, protecting the environment, protecting natural resources, the security of Serbian citizens, there may be a limit to entrepreneurship. This activity does not fall under any of these regulations. Therefore, we believe that this member, this institute, is unconstitutional. We're in favour of the market economy, of the free market. If you've already defined yourself as developing games of chance, and this law certainly means that, it's not some SNS wish. We'd like it a lot more if you were doing a lot more business and, by way of economy, we were opening up more jobs in industry, and that way we're filling the budget. If you have already defined yourself, then you must respect the principles of market economy and free market. Your argument that such provisions can be passed under the company registration law and the registration of economic operators does not stand. The control and verification of these laws show that there are no conditions and that this activity cannot have a special status.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48364	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48365	We ask the amendment to delete Article 16, which is a member adding a new Article 38a, which refers to a change in the structure of capital in the toy, which is "Grand Casino" Bulevar Nikola Tesla number 3, or possibly if in the meantime a new toy is formed, as it goes according to a special procedure. We're against it, and that's why I'm saying there's a connection between Article 16 and Article 9 that I've explained before. I must draw your attention that this whole story of this bill is going in two directions. The first direction is that something epochal will happen, that the state will increase its revenues, which is not true at all. It goes with one social demagogy, because apparently we now have to think about how the state will make a lot of money if it seduces the greater order, and in all the provisions it introduces a mess practically, and then there goes the story of social giving, etc. We have been moving this topic long ago since the court fees and administrative fees became a very important factor in state financing. It goes so far that you've thrown all these street salesmen out, you've kicked them out of work first, so now you don't let them have their existence here either, and look, interesting things, those that wash glass on traffic lights, which have cell phones and social cases, they're free to work in front of a cop. Nobody touches them. It's just amazing what's going on in this country, because obviously not only can't you, but you don't want to focus and do at least a few of those jobs that would go to introduce elemental order, but you prove every day what we've criticised and warned you about earlier. Since I see it's a really dreary atmosphere, let's have a little fun, Mrs. Dragutinovic. This colleague of yours Bozidar Djelic said the other day – when Serbia joins the EU he will cut his hair to the head. It is more likely that he will be bald than we will be joining the EU. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48366	The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48367	Article 17 speaks and refers also to obtaining a permit, I just explained it, and some restrictions that are being introduced. Therefore, there is no reason for a broader explanation. As I said, any restrictions in this area are unnecessary and by SNS unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48368	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48369	Article 23 refers to the withdrawal of licences. In law, we have a member who regulates the withdrawal of a permit and this is already regulated by Article 47 of the Law. There was no reason that if it is already intervened and additional reasons are found for the withdrawal of the licence for the organisation of games fortunately to do so within the framework of this article. The fact is that it prescribes some additional obligations, but it creates a problem when applying the law, leads to ambiguity in the application of the law, but because of repetition it is contrary even to certain provisions of this law. It was therefore quite appropriate to intervene within that member. All of this shows that we still have one poor quality of this law, which is quite unconformed and, unfortunately, we witness that very often we have, because of the speed that laws are being prepared, often after a few months of amending and supplementing those laws that we adopt in the National Assembly, and sometimes we are much more concerned with amendments and additions to the law than with some new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48370	The National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandar Ilic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Madam Minister has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48371	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, just to take this opportunity to let you know something. So, when the government responded to the amendments, there was indeed a technical error in this amendment. So point 31 sets out the wrong amendment, the amendment that reads - in Article 23. Paragraph 2 of the proposal is deleted and the amendment, which reads in Article 28, should be indicated. The "25 euros" proposal is replaced by "2,000 dinars". I apologize for this technical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48372	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr. Rogovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no problem here, Madam Minister, in technical mistakes. The problem is in a law that's been changed and complemented, and the most important things and what's connected to Article 28. The proposal is to replace the words "25 euros" and refers to the monthly level, with the words "2,000 dinars". You know very well as the finance minister that the asset is exclusively in the Republic of Serbia and that this area can neither be discriminated against by the Constitution nor by this law by other economic operators and other ways of business and payment traffic, it means at any time, and it is a member of the law. What's the problem? The problem is that this government has not also weakened the economy, but has weakened the money because of such an economy, so it is likely necessary to push through another means of payment, not domestic money in certain provisions and certain laws. What is evident and what I have to touch about this amendment, regardless of whether you have neither accepted a clear position that is contrary to the 21st and 84th members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but almost no amendments to any parliamentary group. That's the situation, let's say, in this area, I don't know if you're familiar enough, you have six inspectors, or we have six inspectors. They probably have some bad south car, and with six inspectors with a car like that, they can't cover this area. What's going on in that playroom control sector? We have a situation that there are a large number of illegal objects and that in this law, as well as in all laws, for individuals who are illegally engaged, they are not economic operators, some jobs, legal measures, unlike those who are legally engaged in certain affairs. In that case, it is indeed and difficult to exercise control by six inspectors in the entire Republic of Serbia. Indeed, this sector is also covered by market inspectors being able to control gambling, but you must understand and understand the situation that this sector of inspectors is not educated in the field of gambling and gambling. So we have a situation, probably, that when the inspector enters an illegally open facility, he can probably get some illegal stores there. Unlike the people who are in this business and are legally engaged and have several thousand employees and the situation that this law – given that some criminal provisions that the European legislation does not know, that not only mention distances and that with the matter of distance we will really not solve anything, it is also in principle a thousand times repeated – put the whole system in trouble and everything that works around the system, not some meters, kilometers that measure and who knows how to measure. In this area, we have a situation that following such legal provisions, there is likely to be a situation that 2,000 jobs will no longer exist. Then, we have a situation that, for example, the internet betting in Serbia is almost untapped and that the area is very little covered by the State lottery of Serbia, but here you have a partner who is an Israeli company, and the largest number of funds, unfortunately, is leaving the country, leaving the profit to the Israeli company, because the Internet betting is not even regulated by the legal authority and not only has it not been developed. We have a situation that, regardless of all the attacks and in this sector, our bookshops and some of our houses and associations are indeed valid for leading companies in this part of Europe, especially in over 25 European market countries with their houses and have truly educated and professional personnel who can carry out online betting. In light of this amendment, Madam Minister, when you call for an inflow into budgetary resources, you must understand the situation that because of undeveloped Internet betting and the situation that Serbia's state lottery has an agreement, or contract with an Israeli company, over four million euros is lost from this area in the state budget annually. So, that finding is not enough to work enough on this subject, but to continue with the additions of the Law, which will hardly bring any good and no more quality in this area. It is evident that, regardless of the whole situation and this area by the inspectorates, no one has control over this area and that those who are illegally open and those who are not officially registered economic operators are involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48374	Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ms. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48375	Our amendment stipulates that Article 30 is deleted, because we believe that, given the character of activities that involve gambling and betting, it is indeed inadequate to delete the obligation of legal persons to be registered for the performance of gambling and betting. So this euphemist term "special gambling" still doesn't correspond to reality, nor does it contribute to the prevention of gambling addiction and betting, which are increasingly present, especially in the youth population. The name should reflect real activity, which raises awareness of what types of special games access is. The mitigation of the name does not mitigate the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48376	The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48377	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, the concern for the school children you show by putting bookies and casinos and casinos to move more than 200 meters from schools, is in my humble opinion, pure demagogue and hypocrisis. As a rule, the bigger the crisis, the bigger the number of people who turn to games of chance. By the way, the number of casinos, bookshops and casinos is higher, both legal and illegal. The games of chance are the last hopes of the parents of the children you want to protect, because they are out of work, destroying the economy, criminal robbery privatisations. If you really mean well to the children of Serbia, and I don't doubt it, let them have their parents do it. Make it possible for them to live decently and to support their families. Give perspective to families in Serbia, not like this. When first, parents reach for the cube and celebrate gambling, as the last unrealistic chance of escape from misery and unemployment, what other children will do than even on vices to copy their parents and it has nothing to do with the distance of the casinos from school institutions. In one daily newspaper, an article in which the second grade student of the 5th Belgrade High School said in an interview, that is, whether his parents know that he bet, answered, quote – my mother knows that sometimes I bet, something is rebelling, but, brother, when I bring home a thousand or two dinars, to see how to keep quiet. This is a sentence that's been cut deep into me. This is a sentence I'd like you to remember, Madam Minister, because it shows the entire twilight of our society and state. An increase in the prescribed distance of playgrounds from educational institutions is an unethical solution, and the way to determine distance is very problematic. As Col. Rogovic said, a 50th member is forbidden not only to gamble, but also to attend, i.e. to enter the playrooms, and that's good. But the explanation that by increasing the distance from school to the betting facility for those 50 meters would increase the preventive effect on the problem of the participation of minors in special gambling, it really doesn't make any sense. The following logic that you have prescribed in this legal solution should also be prescribed for the distance of schools from food stores or kiosk shops, since these shops sell alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, which are also prohibited from selling to minors. This provision also creates some interesting legal and technical issues. Is it, say, a hotel in which it operates and works for casinos, it needs that same casino to close because less than 200 meters away, maybe a school is opening? The very way of determining distance is also not precisely formulated, so it can depend on the interpretation of authorised persons, of their goodwill or, possibly, on the amount offered, of course, in the conversion currency. The unknown is also the position of the zero point from which the distance will be measured. Is that zero point at the entrance to the classroom, is it at the entrance to the school, is it at the entrance to the school yard? Is this zero point perhaps on the border of the catastrian plot on which the school is located? If that zero point is at the entrance to school, where does it go to school? Almost all schools have more entrances and exits. Where will the distance be measured? Which way? Who's going to determine that? Does the walking path count with the mandatory use of the pedestrian crossing and the ban on treading of the green surface, or will we do it by air, by a shorter route, off the crossing and over the green surface? I think that this legal solution is too elastic to open the door to corruption and therefore I ask you once again to consider this SNS proposal and to accept this amendment in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48378	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48379	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have, in this amendment, tried to indicate that something that already exists in the law should not stand in the provisions of this Article 35, and therefore we have suggested that it be deleted. An interesting answer, i.e. the refusal of amendments, is in fact part of which the amendment has been refused that it is necessary to strengthen preventive action on the problem of the participation of minors in special gambling and betting on machines. Now, Madam Minister, what's written in the explanation is extremely hypocritical. Do you follow the TV programs of primetimes, when all over the screen for minutes or two are advertised gambling, when during sports, significant sports events and the same bookies are advertised? Do you think underage faces don't look at it? Well, they're watching. Is that a problem? Yes, it is. We point to these problems, and you in an extremely hypocritical way refuse to accept this amendment. The second thing I have read is an explanation for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, and in the second part of the reason for the law, you say this: bringing games to happiness in our country is a specific economic activity that is in great expansion. I would completely agree with you, Madam Minister. It's been in big expansion, especially in the last two and a half years. So, the state looks like a big gambling game, and it's a win-win if you defend your job after decades of work. A big win in that big gambling room is lucky if someone pays you a contribution to health insurance. Now, following the media, I see that at the end of January, a big game of luck is being staged by the Institute of the President of the Republic, where 25 of these players will be inserted into the drum and it will be a great fortune to see which of those 25 will be drawn. But he doesn't own that big ballroom president of the Republic, he's co-owner. The real owner is completely on the other side. After all, I'm not sure what your commitment to this law is. In financial terms, it's quite clear and you said it, but it's a completely dubious category. What about your commitment, given the preventive measures? Are we going to call that preventive measure 50 meters, how far do you extend that line? A relative measure called 50 meters. So, all in all and what's said in the debate in particular, this is making assumptions that something is done, that the ministries are worth, that they will increase the income of the state, and the situation is completely reversed. In a country where we are no longer our own, in which it is owned by someone else, in which it is a great playground to survive all these measures that the government makes, to remain reasonable in these situations that affect us daily, it is absolutely pointless to make such changes to the law. Turn to the right job, reduce administration, employ people, fulfill pre-election promises, that's the government's goal, not to deal with the vision, changes and additions of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48380	Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Alexandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48381	I will also use the time of the mandated representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group to explain this amendment after the explanations. Namely, both counterpart Zoran Babic of SNS and Milan Dimitrijevic of the DSS pointed to the paradox in amendments to the same article. Is the number of 50 really changing something? I wanted to do a similar thing by putting the number 2000 instead of the number 200. It could have been 2063. counterpart Nikola Savic of the SRS suggested 500, could be 505 with a line. Therefore, by writing amendments to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games and, in particular, amendments to this article, I did not give any illusion that those who use a macarovelist approach in their silver, in their own love, in their own possession, and in their vanity, would really regret and return this text to review and reflect on the consequences. However, as a Serbian woman, as a psychologist, a person irreparably and permanently in love with her people, culture and spirituality, who is struck by all weapons, I risk being a pain in the ass once more, by appealing to all those whose human and parental discipline is probably ahead of the party. It may be in my case a triumph over experience, but I have a duty to remind myself of the devastating facts, the crisis or better to say, the sun's worth, and that still exceeds the new world and economic crisis. Every fourth man in Serbia suffers from depression, and more in Serbia, they spend five million boxes of tranquilizers. Alcoholism suffers 25% of the population, which is 10% higher than the so-called population. normal times, 15 years ago when that percentage was going around 15%. In Serbia, about 300,000 people use narcotics, making up nearly 5% of the entire population. The cube has become a daily interest in as many as 70% of teenagers and 44% of adults. So, which is exactly the safe distance between educational institutions that promote entertainment, which isolates what experts call popular sports betting, 200 meters, but that's funny. Those who consider sports the structure of life, the ticket, the quota, will easily put a ride to that dark object of desire into their recreational favorite program. So our amendment deliberately lists this figure, where it would point to a logical paradox, which basically is hypocrisy and the need for society to be responsible for disease addiction, which has become a real monster amongst young people, shifts to victims themselves. As early as 1970, the World Health Organization defined gambling as an impulse habit disorder, a disease similar to kleptomania and pyromania, which is expected to be treated as a disease of addiction in the next revision of this pathological gambling classification. In practice, it is treated as well, and in the American classification of mental illness DSM-4 describes 10 symptoms of this disease where they belong – over-occupation, a person often thinks about gambling, regardless of whether it is past, future or imagined gambling. Secondly, tolerance, as well as tolerance to psychoactive substances, makes a person play bigger and bigger roles in order to experience the same excitement. Third, withdrawal, sense of anxiety or irritability, associated with attempts to break or reduce gambling. Four, running away from trouble. Fifth, push, or attempt to win back with even more gambling. Sixth, lying and hiding the scale of your gambling. Seven, loss of control. Eight, illegal acts, a person violates the law with the aim of obtaining the money needed to gamble or recover lost money, which may include acts of theft, embezzlement, fraud or counterfeiting. Nine, risking relationships with significant people, the person continues to gamble despite the risk of losing his partner, his job, his kids, his family. 10th, bail payments, a person turns to family, friends, and even greeners for financial assistance in paying off debts incurred by gambling. Of those ten, a person suffering from pathological gambling must have five or more symptoms. If we know that half a million people in Serbia are almost meeting these criteria, or they are addicted to gambling, and that every fifth man who shows interest in gambling becomes a pathological gambler, we will not be able to go through this gambling law without a chance to get over it, so before the pathological gambling phase comes gradually and slowly, with the initial motive of easy profit and break-in. If they had known how addiction to the cube was created inconspicuously, because neither is an addict aware of his addiction, nor does he have very physical symptoms, many parents would not have financed their children's own beginnings with comments – sports bookies, so what, that's not terrible. I'd rather have my kid take an interest in sports than go through drugs. The cube, which in over 90% of cases starts with a bookie, is nothing more than a mental drug. Based on research by the Herc Fund to prevent pathological gambling, 3 to 5% of the total population in Serbia is pathologically dependent on gambling, 60% is drawn to roulette, slot machines and bookshops, 20% is those who can't get lucky without games, and 20% depends on phone quizs. Children and teenagers prefer slot machines and bookies, grown men slot machines, bookies and roulette, and women games of chance and quizzes. By analogy with other drug addiction diseases, especially drug abuse, where with easy drug abuses, a gambling addict first starts with vines and raffles, moves to betting, and soon to roulette. The addict becomes slowly but surely, with the essence of the player wanting to reduce the period of uncertainty as quickly as possible, to get results, and they are usually defeating. That's when the extraction process begins, so the whole story goes round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and For a gambler, money may not be a priority goal, but without it, it can't be played, so the experiences of an addict are more or less similar. First you spend your money, then you sell things out of the house, then you borrow from friends, relatives, so that eventually many step into the world of crime, embezzlement and theft. Unfortunately, when the sources of funding are dried up, it's played on breaks, because then by the rule, they come to help friends. It's actually about people who encourage gamblers to continue, supposedly understand and encourage him, and actually live off greening, giving money with big interest. Few times when this loan is shown as a failed investment, since lenders are very familiar with the material condition of his family, and large debts usually return to the sale of immovable property, houses or apartments. It's exactly the moment when family members finally realize they're facing a problem they can't solve on their own. Since the first stage of pathological gambling, so-called The winning stages, when they get large sums of money, through a progressive losing phase, where gamblers usually lose money, come to a third, desperate one, and from then to total destruction usually only goes one or two years. The International Organisation "Gamblers Anonymous" cited emotional uncertainty, lack of maturity and lack of confidence as the basic characteristics of the pathological cube. The gambler feels best when he gambles, he wants to create a picture of himself of a good personality, but lives in a dream world that meets his emotional needs, but never gets fulfilled in reality. If their initial motive is easy profit or entertainment, when this passion prevails in man, gambling is seen as a great thrill, fantastic happiness, something that can't be compared to anything. Interestingly, the testimony that this pleasure compares with one type of nadorgasm. In reality, there are concentration disorders, attention, appetite and sleep disorders, including sexual dysfunction. It doesn't have to be a great expert to notice this emotional and cognitive ravine, it's just enough to expose the door to the bookies, so it becomes clear to you how exactly Sharon Stone walks in naked just to get someone off the ballot. With all this, as with other addiction diseases, it's characteristic of non-criticalness, so pathological gamblers have no idea they're addicted or they have a problem, they think they can break up whenever they want. Only when they get into huge financial difficulties, which bring the family almost into an unending existential situation, do they agree to be helped. So pathological gambling is something considered a kind of domestic violence, since one gambles, and the whole family suffers. In the framework of the project "The Cube has been rejected", which was implemented by the Institute of Mental Health through a counselling centre in co-operation with the City Assembly, with extremely disturbing data, and based on the records of users of the consultant, it has been concluded that addicts are getting younger, so that gambling begins at 12 or 13 years of age and most often in sports bookshops. In 63% of the cases, parents sought help, mostly mothers. Gambling is a hidden disease, it's a quiet and invisible problem, until the family faces huge debts. Unlike alcoholism and drug abuse, which can be identified on the basis of a change in physical appearance, gamblers are still very difficult to detect. Adolescent gambler is an individual, bright but uninterested in school, shows contempt for parents and develops the image of a hypersuccessful person. If we know that risk factors include parental addiction disease, loss or death of parents, divorce of parents 15 years ago, inconsistencies or excessive discipline, parents of gamblers, as well as personality factors of a type of impulse, seeking excitement, weak self-control, aggression, then we really won't be able to wash our hands as the supreme legislative institution by increasing the distance in steps, forgetting that even in the modern world, availability is no longer a matter of metric but mental units. A Serbian narrator in the late 19th century, Lazarevic, describes the story "First time with his father in the morning", from the corner of the boys, an event in a Serbian family. The prominent shopkeeper Mitar, rich and honest, at one point in his life the usual evening outings at the bar begin to enrich by gambling. The wife and children are waiting in the room, under the impression that something bad is going on with the head of the house. Mitar wins and loses at the stake. His wife is getting more and more worried and trying to stop him, but unsuccessfully, until Pera Zelembac takes his entire fortune card. In the grand finale of this story, Mitar will reach for a gun in order to kill himself, but he is prevented by a faithful love, telling him that he is a foster parent of the family and that he is still young enough and able to work his way back to what he lost at the stake. The words of comfort affect the soul and consciousness of the master Mithra, and he repents after his son to the church to pray and begin life over again. Now, the first question is, what would happen to Mithra and his family today? We will replace the literary environment with what is actually happening in Serbia. Various forms of gambling have experienced expansion in the last 15 years. The liberalisation of services or market law has turned this activity into one of the most lucrative. The bookies and casinos have divided Serbia into those who earn from the cube and those who care. The explosive appearance of sports bookies has led most of the male population in Serbia to experience daily happiness by filling their cards and playing in small roles. The attempt to systematically introduce order into this area has brought higher revenues to the state, as business control and conditions for the launch of this type of entrepreneurship have increased. What hasn't happened is about the availability of gambling to minors, and I'm afraid that a declarative push to increase distance will neither reduce or solve the problem, a team that has an increasingly pronounced gambling sport on the Internet, which is more than available to minors. The most successful are classic online casinos with cards and roulette, but it is increasingly popular sports betting, especially in Europe. Instead of paying tickets in sales venues, more players are determined to place all bets via the Web. How much online gambling has become popular in an extremely short time is best shown by the fact that every day 200 million dollars is invested in online poker, and the annual revenues of the organizers of such games exceed the $1.4 billion figure. So, even if I don't doubt the good intentions of the legislators of these amendments and the addition of the laws, there are no amendments that will come to those who are excited by the game of thieves and cops. Especially if it is known that everywhere in the world, gambling is a big business, where many see huge benefits, starts with greeners and casino owners, various gambling organizers, all the way to the country itself. It's obviously a vice where everyone gets, and there's only one who loses, and there's a lot of silence about this disease, and it's treated like a personal problem for some people and some of their families there. The only real solution is for the state to assume not only responsibility, but also the obligation to finance projects to prevent disease addiction. One of the transitional solutions is the recent launch of a project -- responsible gambling, where across Serbia, a chain of casinos can find brochures that remind you that harmless entertainment can actually turn into a destructive disease, and where people are called on to seek the help of experts if they notice that the casino has become their second home. But as those cigarette labels do not lead to responsible smoking, as they would otherwise allow us, there is no possibility of lighting up responsible gambling through pamphlets. Wasn't every other alcoholic patented responsible drinking by telling his friends – let's go for one but only one? Until the state takes serious responsibility for those for whom it counts only in the elections, and in the meantime treats them as citizens in transition, as long as there is no restitution of the value system, working habits, solidarity, community and guarantee that this country really needs youth, but not in a way written in graphite – tighten my wrinkles, there will be no solution to the disease of addiction, more precisely the passions that make us beings who suffer and suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48382	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35. A bill of law on gambling. With this amendment, I asked that the facilities in which gambling is held should not be opened at a distance less than 500 metres from the educational facilities. Of course, we have seen here that some other fellow MPs from other parliamentary groups have also submitted the same or similar amendments to this member of the law. I can say that it may not be ideally possible to determine what distance this would be from schools and other educational institutions, but above all, I think something should be done when it comes to this. Ideally it would be when gambling objects wouldn't exist at all, but on the other hand we see that under the circumstances in which we are, it's not possible, because it's one way to fill the budget, which is already in the deficit and in the crisis. The government, of course, did not accept this amendment, but I must say that for the first time in its explanation, it wrote one thing to reject my amendment, which in principle I can agree with, which is that the amendment was not accepted for the reason that, in the event of the adoption of the amendment, there would be a deficit in the budget, it would be that the budget is less full than what is foreseen. Of course, I can agree with that again, but it's just another proof that this amendment should have been accepted. However, there is another question here. You know, when you lose on one side, you get on the other side, and vice versa. So, what you get on the bridge, you lose on the pot. Here we'll have a bigger budget charge based on the item of bookies and gambling, but we'll lose something else. We all know how many human fates have gone in an unwanted direction because of the cube, we all know how many marriages are divorced because of the cube and similar things, we know how many young lives have died because of it, and we know how many young people have turned to crime and some other things that are not in the spirit of what every society would want to have. As a man who has spent his entire working life in education, I know from experience that the opening of gambling facilities is near schools and how harmful it is and that it has a very harmful effect on the young population. It's just like when someone comes to your house and tries to convince you, and eventually maybe convinces you to buy something you might not need. Everything that's in the vicinity of educational institutions is baiting those young children who are unable to resist all vices. I know that a lot of warm meals, a lot of snacks, a lot of other things that parents give kids went to bookshops, I know that a lot of school classes and other forms of teaching have been lost just because of these bookies, and that's why I think the government should reconsider, to reconsider this amendment and to adopt, if not my amendment, then an amendment from another opposition party. We have seen here that colleague Jankovic has submitted the same amendment, only the difference in the distance of these facilities from educational institutions. So it's a very delicate thing. Something to reach their hands, it's very difficult to stand up to, especially when it comes to young lives, young people, and they are mostly lieutenants and addicts of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48384	National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48385	The amendment we have submitted concerns Article 91, and the article provides for conditions when the approval for the award of games in goods and services is withdrawn. The attached member in paragraph 2 shall be told that no appeal can be made against this act referred to in Article 1, but an administrative dispute may be initiated within 30 days of the date of receipt of the act. Our amendment refers to this point 2 and we believe that Article 2 should be amended and that – against the resolutions set out in Article 1 can be appealed to the Ministry of Finance within 15 days. The essence of our amendment is to introduce and make an opportunity to appeal to the ministry in these cases. Otherwise, denying the right to appeal is directly contrary to Articles 4, 20, 21 and 36. The Constitution and Article 13(1). European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights. In all these documents, both the Constitution and the European Convention, there is an absolute obligation to ensure the right to an effective appeal. It is not a problem that only this position is in this article, we almost had in the previous assembly of the Law on Funds and Delegations, where we also submitted amendments as a Parliament club, where there were the same views in this law where the right to appeal was denied and everything was referred to in the administrative procedure, so this is repeated. And then the government did not adopt amendments, and even then, practically, as now, deny the right to appeal and, in fact, appeal and procedure, should not be mixed with the administrative procedure, since these are two independent procedures and are being dealt with by appropriate laws. On the other hand, the establishment of a procedure that is effective and fast enough to fundamentally protect citizens' rights in relation to all acts that they are damaged by the state is an international obligation of our country, because we are signatories of the international civil and political rights act and Article 6(1) of this Convention requires and stands – that there is a fair and public debate within a reasonable period. It is therefore required that this procedure for the protection of the threat of rights be effective and fast enough, i.e. within a reasonable period of time. If now a dispute directed by this member, not respecting the right to appeal, and if the damaged party in the administrative procedure complains, it usually takes a few years. We have been in front of the administrative court since 2008 procedures that have not been resolved. If, after those two or three years, the appeal is respected, it's been a few years. If it comes to the fact that the authority of the administration does not want to comply with the judgment of the court, then the damaged party can be tried again, so that the administrative dispute lasts a few years again, and there goes the damages in a civil dispute, and now we have practical protection and justice after a few years, and that is absolutely in collegiate with this Article 6 paragraph 1. The European Convention, which requires that the debate and any request be fair and that the debate be concluded within a reasonable period of time. For all these reasons, we have proposed that the complaint be made to the competent authority of the State administration because we believe that a decision by appeal may occur in a short period and that it meets the relevant conditions for this appeal to be effective. So we feel that the possibility should also be given to the appeal and this administrative dispute should not be equated and denied first on appeal. So this amendment should be accepted, but I don't think there's anything that's likely to have any of it, because we've spoken similarly in the previous law on foundations and duties, the same story, so it hasn't been adopted at all on that point by any amendment that pointed to the denial of the right of appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48386	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48387	With this amendment, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we are asking for a tightening of laws against those who stage games of chance, without authority, or without permission. We therefore propose that, if in the exercise of the supervision of an authorised person, the game is established without authority, or without the Government's permission or approval or consent of the administration, that authorised person shall immediately carry out the sealing of the toy or bookshop and carry out the temporary confiscation of tables, the gambling machine. In the case referred to in Article 3, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: This position shall be subject to the authority of the Prosecutor's Office to file criminal charges for the criminal offence of an unauthorized gambling lucky as referred to in Article 352. Criminal law. By refusing this amendment in your reasoning, you say – so they are already acting in accordance with Article 352. The law. But we think that the temporary confiscation and fishing of bookies or casinos is a more drastic measure than the one proposed by the current law. We think that, in the end, we said that when we proposed that Serbia's state lottery monopoly be abolished. when it comes to the Internet and gambling, that we have to tighten the law, because colleagues who say that the gambling vice is in the administration, but on the other hand, at this point we have roughly by some estimates the same size of the cube that is legal with the one that is illegal. Maybe it's bigger for the shade. They won't pass this law and edit this area to create a new number of gambling addicts, since the cube exists, it's like with banned substances, they're forbidden, but they're used. So this area needs to be regulated, it needs to be sharpened, it needs to be deregulated, because for years we have been saying that monopolies can't bring anything good to Serbia, not to the citizens at the end, we now have the EU condition for candidacy, etc. The deal with monopolies and the introduction of more faith and competition into our market, and so on. But normally with greater rights, there must be greater obligations. So we think that this amendment could have been accepted, simply if we have more rights, we have to have more obligations. Here is one of the problems – who are authorized persons who can temporarily rob equipment and close casinos and file criminal charges? If these are just controllers from the gambling board, objectively their number is insufficient to control this area throughout Serbia's territory. That is why we think that in the implementation of this law, the gambling administration must have better coordination and co-operation with the tax administration and all its inspection services, only in this case will it be able to control this area of gambling on Serbia's entire territory. So, with the rights I'm offering, which we've asked for previous amendments, to be consistent, we're also looking for a tightening to those who illegally stage gambling. We think it's a rational solution, one concept that the government could accept, if it doesn't today, then it's definitely going to incur new sources of funding, very quickly, I estimate, we'll see if I'm right, come to regulate this area and release private capital, and then they'll definitely have to be stricter regulations than they are at this point. This is not exactly something dragonish strict, but in principle an exact measure of increasing the strictness of the law compared to the rights given to private capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48388	The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Granny, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48389	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Ministers, the information provided by the Association of Employers in the field of gambling is fragrant and that information was presented by the Association of Games, the Tax Administration of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Money Laundering Agency, and therefore you can't justify yourself by being uninformed. According to this information, there are 60,000 undeclared gambling machines in Serbia, 1,500 illegal bookies. The annual budget loss in the name of the compensation for illegal automatics of 30m euros, the annual loss in the name of a fee for undeclared bookies is 20m euros. An illegal import of 20,000 machines for which VAT has not been paid, a budget loss of 10m euros. Over 50 illegal casinos, where Texas Hold on is held, where the loss of taxes and taxes is around 3.5m euros, 32 sites where citizens can access and play online, deal with betting, poker and video games, loss of taxes and taxes is for the state and the budget of the Republic of Serbia sixm euros a year. Over 10,000 workers work on black in illegal bookies and casinos. The total volume of black gambling revenues in Serbia has been estimated at almost half a billion euros each year, with the state losing 80m euros annually on the name of taxis and taxes alone and only because 26% of the markets are legalised and everyone else is working in the gray zone. That's why I would disagree with my colleague, Mr Ostojic, who assessed probably on the basis of a personal assessment that it is 50% - 50%, yet it is one quarter in legal flows, and three quarters in illegal flows, which is information from employers' associations in the field of gambling, and I think they're relevant about what they're talking about. What will happen to this legal solution? The work permit will lose over 300 legal objects, with little more than 1,000 people out of work, and the state will have less than sixm euros per year on behalf of taxis and taxes. What does that mean for people with disabilities? That only one move would leave nearly half a million euros in funds needed to improve living and working conditions. The most devastating effect of this bill that will happen is the growth of the illegal market, which is the generator of deviating pathological phenomena and thus would increase negative phenomena rather than decrease. If it was your wish to submit this bill of amendments and additions to the law on gambling, then vote and apply it as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48390	The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48391	He wants to, and before that, he wants to know how much time we have available.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48392	Eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48393	Thank you. Article 47. The government predicted that gambling directors would have until the end of this year to comply with the provisions of this law, in particular Article 35. We in the SRS think it's too short, too short-lived. For this reason, we suggested that the deadline be extended until 30 June of next year. The government rejected this amendment without a valid, rational explanation. I think she did it by instinct. I am taking the opportunity to remind myself that over the last two years, more than ten times we have proposed amendments that we propose that deadlines for the application of certain laws and certain legal solutions be extended by six months, a year and two, that every time we come across a government misunderstanding, the government did not want to hear our arguments. Then a few months later, we received proposals from that same government to extend those deadlines, often just as the SRS suggested. From the data presented here by MP Zoran Krasic about the number of casinos, bookshops, the number of appliances, it is evident that a real flood of gambling, casinos and casinos is taking place compared to the rise of misery in Serbia. Today only games of happiness and folk cuisine succeed in Serbia. Those who are now in power 10 years ago based their campaign against Slobodan Milosevic on accusations that by organising various games of happiness, various entertainment shows, which we have said, emigrate Serbia, deceive the people, create an illusion of some more beautiful non-existent reality. I claim it is now, 10 years after the arrival of so-called. Democratic parties to power, the situation in Serbia 10 times worse than it was before 5 October 2000. I'll give you some information. On national television 10 years ago, we had two gambling games – Loto and Bingo. There are more than 10 of them today. God no longer knows who organizes them, what they're called, and when they're broadcast. Every time you turn on TV, you see a game of luck. What Mr Krasic says is that they are organized by who arrives and how they arrive. In persuasion of the people, the current government has gone so far as to now instead of one draw of this happy lottery game, one draw per week, we have two draws. From the screen of private television daily in the ether of the fingers millions, millionaires, houses, cars, refrigerators, microwave ovens, mixers, wonders alive. It's all filled with wealth. However, there is another difference, not only in quantity, but in what gamblers invest. Ten years ago in Serbia, people used to gamble mostly on money. In these present games, fortunately, people fool their own wives, their families, the future of their own family, their honor, their dignity, not to mention the game I'm changing women, the moment of truth, etc. Once in a year, some daily newspapers organized a big prize game. The most common were the most successful Evening News. Now in most daily newspapers we have continuous prize games. They don't last for weeks anymore, they last for months, they last for years. There's no end to them, no beginning. People used to buy newspapers in Serbia to read them, to read them. I get the impression when I'm waiting in line to buy a newspaper, so when I see people's reactions that people now don't buy newspapers for reading, but they buy them for scratching, so someone estimated it's obvious that it's a little bit to scratch people once, now I see that there are newspapers that publish some prize games with coupons where they write – scratch once, scratch twice, scratch the third time. Now I'm curious about what kind of scratching is there to say – enough people, no more driving people crazy, let's do some serious business, to open at least 200 of those 200 thousand promised jobs? By October 5, 2000, there were a dozen famous casinos and bookshops in Belgrade, and in most places in the interior of Serbia one or two casinos, a bookshop. There are now twice as many casinos in Belgrade as there are elementary schools and four times as many casinos as there are kindergartens and kindergartens. The situation in Serbia is the same as in Belgrade. Simply, life in Serbia under DS has turned into a large lottery, into a game of happiness. In this game, Serbia's citizens mostly participate. Unfortunately, they are largely deceived because they believe the sea of promises they receive and eventually lose regularly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48394	MP Zoran Krasic. There are 12 minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48395	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. What Mr. Maric did not say, in the meantime, the government also put a finger on the head, so someone thought "with the brain", as my Nišliji would say, and they also submitted an amendment where they said – by 30 June 2011, the deadline was extended to comply with the provisions of this law. That means, the bookies and these machines, that everyone takes a step at a meter and measures whether they have 200 meters from an educational institution, primary or secondary school. Now it's about the situation that the main thing in this law is to measure it properly. If it's at 200 meters, it's positive, if it's at 149 meters, it's not positive. Mrs. Dragutinović, you can tell this to your Ministry, this Fifth Economic School in Rakovica, there's a coffee shop 20 meters away. You come to school or to a bar for the first time, it doesn't matter. If the teachers don't have a classroom, they're in a bar. Now you're making us think if it's an older egg or a chicken. What if someone makes a new school so they have to move the bookies? Please don't bite these sponsors for your heart. That's out of the question. So urbanism is also being questioned because of a member like this. By the way, we have that member who says it's forbidden for minors to come in at all. I hope that the DS and SPS women's forum will give an even better solution to the next amendment to this law, to make it 250 meters. Then, since we are changing European law to even better European solutions. It is that this is not in Europe either, but it doesn't matter, it sounds nice for those who believe, but there are a lot of those who want to believe, they know it's not true, but they want to believe. I must draw your attention that this law does not solve what is Dafina or the Jew. I have to remind you, that's when the Democrats said it was the biggest bookie. I find it a little strange, given that TV is constantly turning commercials – go to the bookies, etc. You heard Mr. Maric say, once there was only one draw a week, and now twice. So, twice as much luck as we need to survive what's hit us since October 5th. Of course there's a lot of money going around beyond all possible currents. You know who gets there. Of course, cops bet and some MPs bet. It's now completely legalized, it's become an open right for every single person who wants to believe. Now a little bit about that desire to be trusted and the right to be trusted. Everyone has the right to believe in everything. Someone can believe that a minister can jump seven meters up and I don't mind being trusted, but if it's possible, you can only see when he swings about the ground, it's not possible. I get the impression that this gambling law didn't cover everything that represents gambling. For example, betting means trying to guess something that's going to happen in the future by task, so who's going to beat and what's going to happen. Now we've got a bet on who's going to survive. I know, whoever survives, he will tell future generations how it was at the time of the greatest democracy to put an end to the end. The more people get fired, the more people are unemployed, the more people's desire to make the American dream come true, that overnight they can become successful, and the criterion for success is money. In that belief, everyone remained poor. In betting and in these other things like gambling, the problem is that it causes major social earthquakes and major social problems, so as a consequence of this betting, we have people who, in front of self-service, weigh beer without paying attention to children. It is expected that someone on the side will solve everything, and this government is not talking about not being happy but working. Here, God forbid someone promotes work, that's heresy, that's forbidden. I have to say, the subject has been completely moved. It used to be that this kind of betting wasn't compatible with socialist morality, etc., so it suffered some bans, today it's formally-legal everything, but the consequences are terrible, difficult, and I'm not telling you who's working to make some money and because someone believed it could be psychic and I think that if we pretend to be serious society, we can't leave it to our own verse. Everyone has the right to choose, so let them choose, so if he gets hurt for what he chooses, it's not our fault. Unfortunately, the state always as a social guarantee for all its citizens has to jump in, but it has to be some kind of prevention, so the full notification of the citizens, the full information, so when it's complete, then if someone does something to suffer some consequences, then we can say that it's personal choice and that they should personally bear some responsibility. Of course, this member served me to just show how serious this government is. This government is serious by thinking that the law passed in the National Assembly in the first half of December, and then hundreds of these bookies agree these 50 meters in 15 days. Someone will say – the law has long been in the process, so we expected it to be adopted much earlier. I know, but you know how this European Parliament works here. You know he said Mr. Djelic that this is a black hole. It's not a hole. It's a hole. We have 25 points of the agenda of the united, just so we don't hear it, so the citizens don't get to know the really cruel truth that hit us. I also doubt that by June next year, it will agree to the business of these bookmakers and these automatic bars, i.e. rooms, because it practically means that some construction, urban, bonding and other relationships should be resolved, because it is not quite easy to move 50 meters away. It's not that simple. Can it be affected that everything that's open is under absolute control or maximum control? It's impossible. You've heard the data on the number of those sites, the number of these machines, the number of locations. I think there were six inspectors in that gambling department. It's illusory to draw some conclusion on the inspector's head about what turns out to be and how much it turns out to be. We haven't celebrated ourselves as a state, and when we have an inspection in the same place, no matter what action it is. We have inspections in, say, factories where tobacco processing is produced. It's a bad show. We've got vets in every slaughterhouse. It's a bad show. In a moment, they blended there on principle, and where I am. We can trade it for 15 days to get some other teams to come. It's the same. It's a specific composition. Close the tights. The court is adjusted. Judges under control. Prosecutors under control. Lawyers under control. You want justice - you have to find an address. Justice is absolutely selective. What does it depend on? I was telling you about that class of housing that used to make apartments for the police. NIS was late in some kind of payment. The contract was to be implemented to repair the damage done to the housing community. The procedure is over. It came to the execution and Homen took the case through his attorney's office, went back to a retrial and went bankrupt. Now tell me which law can help? There's no law. How does the law help? I was just listening to epic songs here about the human rights of gamblers. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-08-0.u48396	I'm sorry. Are you done? It was a mistake. Will you have another minute and a half? The government has submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Would you like the word, Madam Minister? No, I don't. ) Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you for your participation in the work today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
