ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the session to be attended by 148 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the consequential units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 127 MPs in the hall, so there are conditions to work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yes, Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice from the National Bank of Serbia to provide us with information, and this is the 'Luke Belgrade', how much on the day of 31.12.2005 was the foreign currency in the accounts'''Luke Belgrade'? According to all the information or some documents, there appear to have been about 42m and 600m and some thousand euros in those accounts. Among other things, there is information that $10 million was given to Delta as a short-term loan or a placement. This is likely to be made clear to us by the National Bank, but this data is interesting because the privatisation of "Luke Belgrade" and "Luca Belgrade" was purchased for 40m euros in September. It seems that whoever bought Luka "Belgrade", for 40 million, immediately found 42m euros and some euros in the accounts, saying that he immediately earned 2m euros in money, and plus all the values with which "Luke" is available, normally, and with the land that was obtained; and after the General Urban Plan, it was allowed to turn that land into a building plot, even the City gave more than 800,000 euros for it. And when you add how many squares will be built, which is the business of living space, you'll earn a few billion euros. What's interesting about that? The company that bought 'Luku Belgrade' was registered in Luxembourg, called 'World Finn', had only 31 thousand euros in accounts and is now asking a simple question – how is it possible for a company that has 31 thousand euros to buy a company of 40m euros? In doing so, we get information from a controversial businessman, who became this only after 2006, until then was a prominent citizen of Serbia, among other things, his plane was given by DS President and Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who said he had given the money for the privatisation of "News" to Beku and Miskovic for the privatisation of "Luke". To this day, we have no information as to what is going on and who is hiding behind these two privatisations. I mean, when the National Bank of Serbia delivers this information, the government in Serbia will finally realize that it has to deal with organised crime. I am sure that, in this fight with organised crime, largely, DS representatives will lead the column, but those who will go to the prosecution, to the investigative judge, etc. to give statements because they have largely participated in this robbery over the past 10 years and to explain in particular the role played by Milorad Miskovic and Milan Bek in privatisation over the past 10 years. We think that the DS will finally accept it as a commitment, precisely because in its interview, President Boris Tadic called for a decisive fight against organised crime and all the most state-level bodies. And from what we could see in the Committee on Defence and Security, in essence, the biggest brake in that fight is DS, because they do not allow themselves to go into a decisive fight against organised crime, so again I call on Boris Tadic to explain to his members... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and Serbian citizens what he really meant when he called for a decisive fight against organised crime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37777	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37778	I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has declared war on organised crime and corruption, to answer me – what role is the role of the government of Vojislav Kostunica in the sale of ''Luke Belgrade', since 'Luka Belgrade' was sold in 2005? So, to answer the question -- under what conditions and how and who controlled the process in which state property was sold over Luke Belgrade, and was it really about controlling the financial assets of those who bought that property? Of course, we also expect the competent state institutions to do their part of the job, to investigate all the circumstances of these privatisations, and not only to inform the public about what they found, but to process all those responsible, even if they were former members of the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37779	Dear People's MPs, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with the Report of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the People's Parliament, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Stevica Spajic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Stevica Spajic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to enter the O.R. Mr. Jovan Damjanovic answered the words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37780	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, at the invitation of the Roma community in Kosovo, where Roma Kosovo Polja, Caglavica, Lapljeg Sela, Preoc, Gracanica, Obilic, met with them. They gave me facts about the inhumane conditions in which they live. I went to the camps of Chesmin Lug and Osterod, where it was a really difficult situation, but I was amazed, despite the fact that the World Health Organization gave information about the presence of a large carcinogenic lead dust, which is why many kids got sick and died, but I came across something I really can't believe in. The Kosovo Mitrovica municipality has responded to NGOs that there is no room for residential construction for the Roma community, but that Roma should move to the south of Kosovo Mitrovica, where we are not guaranteed freedom or freedom of movement. I ask, can local authorities now, without the institutions of this state, do they work like that? We even got a notice saying like this: ''We want to point out that those families before the war lived in the southern part of the city, along the Ibar River, that the most natural and fairest would be to find the possibility of their return to that location. '"I don't mind if the Roma return to that location. After the military-technical agreement, when the Serbian people and the military and the police retired, we too, Roma. I think we should go back together to the south of Kosovo, and to other parts, but not just Roma. Also, I want to inform this assembly that Roma do not receive social assistance guaranteed by the state and the Constitution of this state, but are several months late, but what does the municipal leadership run by the municipality in Kosovo Mitrovica say? He says, "We allege that the municipality will fully support the continued enjoyment of all the rights that residents of Camps Chesmin Lug and Osteroda have so far had to do with social and health protection, if they return to the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica," where neither life nor the flow of the people of Roma nationality is guaranteed. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, we have always been with the Serbian people and we will always be, we have no other state, is it natural now, and is it humane for the Roma to return where there is no Serb people? We need to know that we should also respect international conventions on human rights, on displaced persons, on refugees, that against their will they cannot go back to where they don't want to go. I ask this congregation to do something and do it officially. I believe that the Democratic Left of Roma and its representatives should be involved when it comes to the Roma community and dislocation. We will be on the side where Serbia is and where the Serbian side is, and on the other hand, where we are not guaranteed our rights to freedom of movement and to life, the Roma community, where we do not want to go. I hope that soon I will also have a meeting with the president, the Committee, Mrs Plassic, to make a decision that you will all be familiar with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37781	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Donka Banovic. Before we move to the agenda of the session, we need to determine the quorum for work. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I'm taking a 30-minute break. [[After break – 11.30]] Dear People's MPs, let me inform you that at the gallery there are students of Petro Kuzmjak High School from the Russian Cross. The students of High School visited the congregation and wanted to attend our session for a short time today. Let us greet them. Also, I'd like to inform you that, after the adoption of the agenda of the Second Regular Session, we're going to start with the Third Regular Session. [[Applause]] In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for further work. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of emergency acts, to extend the agenda, to combine the debate and to change the order of the agenda. We're moving on to review by emergency procedure. The government has proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Refugees Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the central register of compulsory social security be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 54 MPs of the SRS MPs suggested that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of genocide against Armenian people committed in the period from 1915 to 1923 by Ottoman Turkey. Please make a statement. Of 183 MPs, 47 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the education of the working group for the draft law to create formal legal conditions for the handling of competent authorities following reports of the disappearance of newborn children from the maternity ward. Please make a statement. Of the 165 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Water Law be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 55 MPs of the SRS MPs suggested that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in the clerofastic Independent State of Croatia. Please make a statement. Of the 190 MPs, 45 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Committee on Constitutional Affairs, pursuant to Article 165(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the choice of trustees for the protection of equality be put on the agenda during the session. Please make a statement. Of 157 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a draft decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 26 March 2010. The team, I remind you, is Article 42, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, found that the National Assembly decided on the resolution and selection of a new member of the Committee at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, so there is no need for us to make a special statement on this proposal, as it will be included in the agenda of this session, in the very letter of the Rules of Procedure. The ZES parliamentary group submitted a proposal on 26 March 2010 to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. The team, I remind you, is Article 42, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, found that the National Assembly decided on the resolution and selection of a new member of the Committee at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, so there is no need for us to make a special statement on this proposal, as it will be included in the agenda of this session, in the very letter of the Rules of Procedure. You have received notice from the Government that, on the basis of Article 145(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, draws from the assembly procedure the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Securities and Other Financial Instruments. Also, the notice of Dr Svetozar Chiplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, has just arrived that, as a representative of the Proposer, he is withdrawing from the assembly procedure a bill confirming Protocol 14-Bis with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. A group of 30 MPs from the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and New Serbia proposed that the agenda be extended to a point – a proposal for a declaration of condemnation of war crimes in the area of the former Yugoslavia. I'm asking you to make a statement on this. Mr. Milos Aligrudic came forward to explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37783	Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, this is your last chance to do something useful for this country and this people, because what you intend to do, after about twenty minutes, from now, by including a new session, or by introducing a new session, the Third session of the regular session, with a special declaration of Srebrenica, is something that will throw the state and the people into the loop. This is something that you, the ruling majority in Serbia, will define the interpretation of the course of history, something that you will contribute to the way history is introduced into textbooks by making Serbia a major criminal, too, and from the Serbian people a greater criminal and someone who needs for future generations to have only one thing in mind, to repent of something he did not do. The Serbian people cannot be responsible for individual activities. The Serbian people were not responsible even in the 1990s for a policy that was led not only in Serbia, but also in the second part of the former Yugoslavia's space, especially not the citizens of Serbia. If they had been responsible and wanted the events that were happening, well, it wouldn't have been so strong in 2000 that one regime changed, with which you today create a coalition. This is the last chance for this assembly to give up the defilement of its own state and its own people, of equating its own state in a moral sense with Nazi Germany, which you will obviously take today, and to adopt one declaration that takes care of victims, regardless of nationality, to adopt a declaration that explicitly condemns a crime in Srebrenica, as also condemns other crimes committed in the space of the former Yugoslavia, in a war that lasted and raged. Because every victim in that war is worth our attention, every victim has a name and a last name, and every way these innocent victims were killed deserves our gift. When you single out a single special declaration of a crime, which, by the way, is already marked in the part of the world public as genocide, you will mark Serbia as a genocide state. Anything else, you can get ten declarations after that, it won't matter anymore. To prevent such a crime that you will do in this congregation today, we have proposed this, and it is your last moment to come to your senses and put this on the agenda, and to give up the Third Session. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37784	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 174 MPs, 43 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a common principle search be carried out, a common principle and a single and joint single search on the proposals for the acts set out in the proposed agenda, as well as acts supplementing the agenda. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic's proposal was delivered to you on 27 March 2010. Do you want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, based on Articles 90, 2nd and 3rd. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed a change in the order of the agenda. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic's proposal was sent to you on 27 March 2010. Would you like a word, Mr. Ratkovic? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 121 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, for extending the agenda, for bringing the debate together and for changing the order of the agenda points, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find the proposal accepted. Given that the National Assembly has accepted certain proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, as well as a proposal to change the order of the proposed agenda, I would ask the National Assembly to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. We'll interrupt this session and work to continue tomorrow. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, 5. Proposal for a law on metrology, 6. Proposal for a law on the protection of the population against exposure to tobacco smoke, 7. “ What Is It? ”, 8 / 8 Proposal for a forest law, 9. Proposal for a water law, 10. Proposal for a law on the recognition of agricultural plant variety, 11. Proposal for a beer law, 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, 13. Proposal for an organic production law, 14. A Proposal for a Law on the conduct of advisory and professional affairs in the field of agriculture, 15 / 15 Proposal for a Law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act, 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Official Use of Language and Letters, 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", 18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services, 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marking the Day of Grieves in the Territories of the Republic of Serbia, 20. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old and rare book of exceptional importance, 21. A Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, 22. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Iraq on Co-operation and Military Training for Iraqi Armed Forces, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on co-operation in the area of defence, 24. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on co-operation in the area of defence, 25. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the exchange and mutual protection of confidential information in the area of defence, 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the area of defence, 27. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation in the field of defence, 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Portugal in the area of defence, 29. Proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on military co-operation, 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on co-operation in the area of defence, 31. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on an eased procedure for issuing visas, 32. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, 33. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on an eased procedure for issuing visas, 34. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on technical and financial co-operation, 35. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing and Statute of the European Public Law Organisation, 36. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the United States on the employment of persons living in a joint household with members of diplomatic and consular offices serving in Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. in the United States, 37. Proposal for a law confirming the Supplemental Protocol under the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 on the adoption of an additional sign of recognition (Protocol III), 38. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on cooperation in the field of culture and education, 39. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and non-judicial acts in civil and commercial matters, 40. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in Civil and Commercial Matters, 41. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on legal aid in civil and criminal matters, 42. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on extradition, 43. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, 44. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, 45. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Economic Co-operation, 46. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects, 47. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, 48. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual incentive and investment protection, 49. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Portugal on mutual incentive and investment protection, 50. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait, 51. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait on cooperation in the field of tourism, 52. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on Temporary Import, 53. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Malta on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, 54. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic with the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, 55. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Estonia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, 56. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, 57. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamaica on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, 58. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, 59. Proposal for a Law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood, 60. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on social security, 61. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, 62. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the value of cultural heritage for society, 63. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Regional Environment Centre for Central and Eastern Europe on the legal status of the Regional Environment Centre in the Republic of Serbia, 64. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecasts (ECSPV), 65. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Cross-border Context, 66. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for damage caused by oil pollution, 67. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Systems used against Breeding on Ships, 68. Proposal for a Law confirming the 1997 Protocol amending and supplementing the International Convention on the Prevention of Sea contaminants from ships from 1973, amended and supplemented by the 1978 Protocol, which concerns it, 69. Proposal for a Act supplementing the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport (Cotif) of 9 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and the Convention on International Railway Transportation (Cotif) of 9 May 1980 in the version under the Protocol on Amendments of 3 June 1999, 70. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on border control in rail transport, 71. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on International Transport of Dangerous Freight in Road Transport (ADR 2007), 72. Proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on international transport of dangerous goods on internal waterways (ADN), 73. Proposal for a law confirming the 2005 Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention on the control of illegal actions directed against the security of maritime navigation, 74. Proposal for a law confirming the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods Contracts on Internal Waterways (CMNI), 75. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on Foundation Co-operation of Trans-European Railways (TER), 76. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the transport of passengers and things in international road traffic, 77. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on international combined transport of goods and logistics services, 78. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on international road transport of passengers and things, 79. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council on the transport of passengers and things in road transport, 80. Proposal for a law confirming the amendment to a member of thexia (c) (ii) of the Agreement on an International Telecommunications Satellite Organisation (ITSO), 81. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Final Acts Regional Conference on Radio Communications for the Planning of Digital Terrestrial Broadcasting Service in Areas 1 and 3, in frequency range 174-230 MHz I 470-862 MHz (RRC-06), 82. Proposal for a law confirming the Amending Protocol and supplementing certain parts of the Regional Agreement on the European Broadcasting Area (Stakholm, 1961) with Resolutions (RRC-06-Rev. ST61), 83. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Acts amending the Constitution and the Convention of the International Telecommunications Union, 84. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on cooperation in the area of agriculture and related sectors, 85. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the area of agriculture, 86. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on veterinary co-operation and animal health protection, 87. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of spines intended for inspection and other scientific purposes as amended by the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Protection of spines intended for visual and other scientific purposes, 88. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Pets, 89. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Agreement with the Basic Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on Co-operation in the Veteran Area, 90. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes and Amendments Twenty-five and twenty-six. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes, 91. Proposal for a decision on the Education of the Working Party for the Draft Law to create formal legal conditions for the handling of competent authorities following reports of the disappearance of newborn children from maternity care, 92. Proposal for a decision on selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, 93. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and 94. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia before we move to the Third Session, honourable MPs, let me inform you that for Thursday, 1 April 2010, I have scheduled consultations with the heads of Parliament and vice-presidents of the National Assembly on the subject of the Declaration on Crimes of Serbs committed at the premises of the previous Yugoslavia. I expect that the text of this declaration will quickly be found before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a special point. [[The session was suspended at 11.35 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37785	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION ON 30 March 2010 (The session began at 11.35 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37786	I am opening the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the session to be attended by 148 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 129 MPs in the hall, and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Donka Banovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on an exceptional basis for 30 March 2010, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft act in the proposed agenda as soon as possible, and for the reasons set out in the reasons for the adoption of acts under emergency procedure. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure. National MP Nada Kolundzija, acting on 29 March 2010, suggested putting on the agenda a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of a crime in Srebrenica, which a group of 114 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 153 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Of the 149 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of a crime in Srebrenica. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a declaration by a group of 114 MPs and a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 163 paragraph 3, and corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. This means practically that the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of Minors - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that by this point in the agenda of the parliamentary group, the MPs will be: the MP of the Esad Djudžević Group of Minorities, the MP Slobodan Samardzic MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, the MP of Aleksandar Martinović, the SRS parliamentary group. I am sorry, although the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has made the next proposal late, I will read it and put it on the plea. In accordance with Article 94(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the total time foreseen for the debate in principle at item 1 of the third session of the First Regular Session be 10 hours. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 204 MPs, 62 MPs voted in favour. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: What does this look like? Please be quiet, we'll repeat the vote. Here, you've got it on screen now. I ask the MPs to make a statement about Mr. Todorovic's proposal. Of the 206 MPs, 80 MPs voted in favour. I find the proposal not accepted. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37787	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 98(2). In this regard, it is foreseen that the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. I think it is necessary to introduce order into the topic which is open by voting for the proposed agenda item and I will tell you why, Madam President. We only talked once in parliament about a declaration of condemnation of events in Srebrenica. This conversation was conducted at consultations, i.e. The college you organized last Wednesday. I would not like to comment on the fact that this college as a college not attended by all the heads of parliament groups, but I would like to tell you that we have just discussed the Rules of Procedure which regulates the work of the college, and then we discussed the plan of activity in the Assembly itself and the 90 points of the agenda that were planned for this week, and then we were given one document that you signed. It was the text of the Srebrenica Declaration. We ended up with a joint agreement that it would be necessary to continue consultations, in order to get a document behind which this parliament could stand. I'm just going to quote the confusion that marked yesterday. You said yesterday that the text cannot be changed in the offer, but the proposaler's representative can respect each initiative and at the end of the vote, the text can be changed. MPs have a very active role to play because they will be able to influence the definitive change, not the offered text content, by participating in the debate. This is just one in a series of contradictory and confusing statements that led us to discuss events in Srebrenica. We have received an amendment from MP Meha Omerovic from a group of minorities, I apologize, from the ZES, which he also intervenes in the text of the declaration. Since a united and unique search is being conducted here, we will not be able to discuss the amendments. I think it's irresponsible to discuss such an important topic, that it's necessary to establish some normal work, and the prerequisite for such a thing is our common agreement on it. We haven't been able to talk about this, Mrs. Dejanovic. You've denied us the possibility of such a thing, and now we're going to have to compromise here, measuring a dose of patriotism or reason within us. Let this be the first debate in those places where we need to talk, and then we will enter parliament with a clear view of what we want to do here. This isn't leading us anywhere, and that's more than clear. If the aim is to declare in this way such tragic events as the events treated by the proposal for a declaration, then it is a defeat before the debate begins, we do not have to vote on it, our joint one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37788	Thanks for the suggestion. If there were any ambiguities, the declaration is an act discussed by the Assembly in the context of a single search and all ideas. These are not classical amendments because we do not have members of the law, but any position of the declaration can be given in the course of the debate a suggestion on which the Assembly will declare itself. I think a period of more than two months has been enough to consult between us. This final text supported 114 MPs with their signatures. It is offered as a content definitely to be heard about by the Assembly, taking into account all the suggestions that will be heard during the debate, by a vote. So, every single one of your ideas or amendment will be voted by the Assembly. I'm sorry, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ilic? He's got the word of Ambassador Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37789	Madam President, I took very seriously that meeting you called as a co-ordination of the heads of Parliament's groups. I came in neat and on time. What happened? There were some of your clerks in the O.R., who informed me that you have consultations of the ruling coalition elsewhere, and we should sit down and wait until you arrive. I sat down for a while and, of course, I left. It's discrimination against the MPs. We're here to discuss a very serious issue that's on the agenda today, and what's going on?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37790	Mr. Ilic, I'm sorry, you're not telling the truth. You're really not telling the truth. That never happened. Please do not deceive the public and the MPs. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37791	You know what, Madam President, I'm telling the truth and I was present at 1200 hours and there were journalists outside who took pictures of it. Afterwards, Mr. Jovanovic came the only one. None of you were here. Maybe you came back later. I've been waiting for you for a while and I've retired. I got the information from your officers. So, I'm interested -- who wrote this, where he wrote it, who he consulted with, and if we exist as the MPs here, and are we as one co-ordination body compact and should one such important issue be discussed together or in some special circles, as has happened? It is very irresponsible to schedule a session at 12.00 hours, and by 12.05 hours no one from the ruling coalition has entered at all. I think Mr. Jovanovic entered at 1202 hours. I was sitting, of course, and I left, because it's extremely unserious. We're showing up today. Then your statements are so contradictory. Your individual representatives, the ruling coalitions, come out with contradictory suggestions, suggestions, etc. Sit down and arrange what you really want today. This is an extremely important issue for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37792	Time, bring the end, please, Mr. Ilic. Of course, we will hear from the proposing representatives how the text came to be. He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37793	I suggest a breach of members 90th and 164th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, we received the 27th text signed by 114 MPs, a proposal for a declaration, which does not require an emergency procedure. He doesn't even have an explanation for the emergency procedure. You have scheduled for the 30th session, so that you may inform us today, as Mrs. Kolundji, if I have heard correctly, asked for an emergency procedure on the 20th. I remind you that it must be at least three days before someone asks to include something in the proposed agenda, and you have set up a session on a proposal within a short period of time. You are now justifying some reasons for an emergency procedure, and this agony around this declaration has been going on for four or five months. Therefore, there is no reason for the breach of the Rules of Procedure to discuss the declaration. All deadlines have been breached for today's session, but you really insist on such rudeness, in order for you to prove something. We have received the text you signed, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and we are discussing it today, and it took the heads of the parliamentary groups to plead, about the text signed by 114 MPs, the second one is the promoter, and there are amendments to that text that you gave us – there are amendments and there are serious ones. It's probably the fruit of the consultation they're having with you, and the consultations with the opposition never bring any fruit because you won't listen to us. Therefore, I ask you to make a statement - whether you have scheduled this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether an emergency procedure has been requested in order to inform us immediately that the session will be held today, when an emergency procedure has been requested and whether you should have rejected this request after it has arrived untimely in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37794	Mr. Nikolic, he's an absolutely respected Rules of Procedure. The proposal arrived on the 20th and entered the procedure of 114 MPs. Yesterday, in good time, after 10.00 hours, a motion for an emergency procedure arrived, and I was obliged to put this item of the agenda to the vote, and the Assembly today came forward and adopted such a agenda. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic. Excuse me, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Nikolic, you are not pleased. You want in the voting day to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: It is not done so. It should be stated whether you scheduled a session yesterday, or whether you had an appointment. ) Mr. Nikolic, I am confident, respecting all the restraints that an MP may have, that I have not hurt the Rules of Procedure anywhere. I gave you a detailed explanation – that the emergency procedure proposal arrived yesterday, 20 hours before today's session. Therefore, I had the basis to call a session by emergency procedure, which I did. If this explanation isn't enough, do you want to take the Parliament's vote day to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure? He doesn't want to. ) So you don’t want to, since you’re in the mood for some other figures of style, not perhaps those that might be desirable. There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic. Will you again, Mr. Todorovic, to measure your time, or re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Article 104 - the dignity of the Assembly, by the President of the Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. You told one of the heads of Parliament here that he wasn't telling the truth. Maybe that's true, maybe not. Translated into the national language, you said he was lying. It can't just cross over. We'd have to determine first of all whether it's true or not. If what Mr Velimir Ilic said is true, then you have knowingly led some of the heads of the parliamentary groups astray, especially in view of your statements after that meeting of the College, which was attended by representatives of the SRS, where we, among other things, realized at the meeting, that there is no change in the text of the declaration, which you directly stated after the meeting to the media representatives. It would be good for the MPs and for the public to definitely determine who's telling the truth here and who's not telling the truth. You know, today you've come and you're completely different in the way you're organizing today's Assembly, this agenda, with no possibility of anyone, anyone who intended to change the text of the Declaration, to improve it with amendments, that's what you've done, because you've made it impossible by your statements. As far as the SRS is concerned right away, we have absolutely no interest in any document related to Srebrenica, because this is all a farce that takes place under the pressure of your Western friends to condemn the Serbian people for something they did not do. (President: Time. ) Before we start with this, I think it is the basic order to determine the truth – who is telling the truth and who is not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37796	I'm sorry to say you're not in the business of current matters. After all, you were in the College session, so you know best whether I held some special College or whether you were at that session, so also representatives of opposition MPs' groups. I give my word to MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37797	Madam President, I call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 concerning Article 163. Article 27 refers to your earlier argument on how to adopt the declaration and the objections that can be made during the search, which is absolutely impossible. I would remind you that Article 163 states: "The draft Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Resolutions, Recommendations, Decisions and Conclusions may be submitted by the legislator in writing", that means that the Members of Parliament can, "and so on, open a search; in the process of adopting other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly", it also refers to this act, "the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the adoption of laws are applied, if that is different in respect of certain types of acts to this Rules of Procedure". You can't rule it out, there's a complete confusion here with this relationship, the amendment as a means. So, you rule it out, you give an explanation that the amendment here is considered a suggestion. Well, then how do you think you vote that suggestion? This assembly is not an informal meeting on a holiday plan, but a serious home. So there must be some rules of procedure here. In accordance with Article 27, as president, you are obliged to point out and respect them. You obviously don't do that. Just look at the report from the Legislative Committee, which states that the Committee has considered amendments to the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica and considers it legally possible, so it states amendments to the preamble of Cedomir Jovanovic and others from the LDP, and to the text of the declaration by Cedomir Jovanovic and others from the LDP. By the way, we didn't even get those amendments. They're not even divided. You consider that a suggestion? That's not suggestions. Read Article 163. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Secondly, this report says it is another misinformation, and now I don't know what disinformation is, that this proposal for a special declaration of criminal conviction in Srebrenica has been filed by a group of 119 MPs. The material we have shows that a group of 114 MPs have submitted it. It really doesn't make sense that we are working this way and really rightly, although I don't share Mr. Jovanovic's political opinion on the essence of this matter, which will later be seen from the debate, Cedomir Jovanovic was right when he asked you this question a moment ago and asked you to hurt the Rules of Procedure, because this is how you do and how you run this session not to lead anything, but is in full agreement with the disaster that you think you will do with this third session and the result of this debate through the vote on Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37798	You've made one mistake. The document contains 119, and 114 MPs have proposed. It's a mistake that needs to be corrected. I've given professional services a warrant to correct this technical error. Amendments will be discussed and voted on, the only thing that will be a single search on the proposal for a declaration and, in the context of a single review of several amendments, as far as the text of the declaration has arrived, it will be possible to provide appropriate explanations. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica. Does a representative of the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Can I have a word with the Rules of Procedure?) ) Mr. Jovanovic wants a word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37799	Article 101. Madam President, you have completely misread what I have suggested. My suggestion that you organise consultations should not be seen as condemning you for some personal failure, I think it is the need of Parliament. We had only twice the opportunity to talk to representatives of the Assembly, on February 3rd, at consultations organised in the course of the debate on the Srebrenica Declaration and at these consultations, no one mentioned Srebrenica, except for our parliamentary group, which submitted a document to parliament with the basis of the declaration, in our opinion, which we never talked about afterwards. Other consultations were consultations seven days ago on the Rules of Procedure of the College, on a 90-point session of the agenda, on the request of a radical to discuss the genocide against the Armenians and during this debate we received a document that you signed. We didn't get a chance to talk about it today. We think it's a bad way to even get into that subject. We don't see any reason for the urgency of the procedure. What damage could it be after 15 years of Serbia's silence on the murder of 8,000 people in Srebrenica? That won't get us anywhere. I think the need for parliament to discuss this matter in a civilized way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37800	I express my hope that the meeting of the heads of Parliament, or the College, will be attended by all representatives or all members of the College. I'd like to meet you in O.R. In 40 minutes, we'll continue our work. [[After break – 12.50]] I gave the word to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37802	Dear fellow Members of the People, pursuant to Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, 114 MPs, submitted a declaration to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of the crime committed in Srebrenica. The reasons for the adoption of such a declaration have also been presented to you in an explanation for the adoption of such a declaration. The opening of this debate and, I believe, the adoption of the declaration is the most responsible way to close one tragic chapter of the recent past and open the door to a future where peace, understanding, tolerance and co-operation will open new perspectives for generations to come. We are facing a huge responsibility today, and I think this is one of those sessions that make a turning point on Serbia's path to building a modern European society. Deeply believing in the precious and invaluable value of every human life, this is how we firmly defend every idea and policy that targets human life. Condemning a terrible crime in Srebrenica against the Bosniak population, respecting innocent victims, expressing the deepest compassion with their families, we today take responsibility to remove from future generations the heavy burden left by individuals. Calling on the property of the Serbian people and all Serbian citizens to sympathise with the suffering of another, to always show willingness to sacrifice and help others in distress, I expect that by their relationship with this declaration, the representatives will show that they themselves possess the characteristics of the people they represent here. Some committed a terrible crime in Srebrenica. Some here convince us that if we condemn this crime and punish the perpetrators, responsibility falls on all of us. They demand that all in this country remain prisoners of a few, who, fleeing from personal responsibility, expect us not to point our finger at them and blame the entire Serbian people. Several thousand innocent people died in Srebrenica. There are those who want to convince us that if we express our regret and our condolences to the victims, for there is no need to forget, here are the victims and the dead and the living, that we will offend our own victims. We are not present here today to question the extent of the crime. We don't count the victims. We're not measuring the punishments for the perpetrators. We do not deal with extenuating or exaggerating circumstances. The question is before us – are we ready to, as a society that cherishes the most civilizational values, condemning a crime committed by others, condemning every crime and seeking justice for every victim. Are we ready to say – guilt is not and cannot be collective? It can be and is only and exclusively individual. The question to us is, for all of us, is the integrity of human life based on the society for which we stand, and is it protected for all of us from any national, religious or any other sign that makes a difference? By forming this declaration, we have come first and foremost from the following facts: that Serbia is an equal member of the United Nations and other international organisations; that it is a signator of the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the Civil and Political Rights Pact and other international acts and that it has committed to respect in its behaviour the acts of which it is a signator. We have come from respecting the decision of the International Court of Justice in the case of BiH's genocide suit committed in Srebrenica. We have come from Serbia being an active factor of peace and stability in the region and as such must be a leader in processes that will rightly illuminate the future, set our relationship to the past and condemn any crime that has been committed in that past. We have come from the fact that Serbia respects the universal civilization values of the developed and democratic world and actively contributes to their construction and respect; that it respects and advocates the full application of international law on which the world rests; that, among other things, by insisting on respect for international law, we also defend our own territorial integrity. We have come from Serbia building a truly democratic society that is based on respect for the lives of each individual. What are the basic messages we want to send this declaration? We strongly condemn the crime committed in Srebrenica. We offer our sincere condolences to the families of the victims and honor the victims. We undertake to do everything we can to find and process the perpetrators, as well as to fully fulfil our international obligation to co-operate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. By keeping a memory of the victims, we build a dam, so that the clashes of the victims never repeat themselves in these areas. We build bridges of reconciliation and co-operation in mutual respect and respect. We are deeply convinced that this declaration builds the credibility of the country, raises its international reputation and strengthens its international position. We say this declaration – yes, there was a terrible crime in Srebrenica. The individuals are responsible for him. Yeah, we'll do everything we can to make sure that those who committed it match the crime, and then we'll take off this heavy burden of the past from future generations. We say in this declaration, yes, that's where innocent people died, and we're sorry about that. At the same time we say - no, we won't forget our victims. We will not allow those responsible for crimes against the Serbian people to escape justice. We believe that if we keep a memory of the victims, we create a prerequisite that no more human life in these places will ever be lost in the name of the wrong and irresponsible policies. By adopting this declaration, we will restore the reputation and respect that the Serbian people and Serbia have enjoyed for centuries. We will achieve international credibility to show that we know that the crime is individual, but that society about it is declared as a whole. When society condemns him as a whole, then it means that society has shown that individuals are responsible and that they have to answer for these crimes. What's important for us here, too, is that it would be the most unfortunate thing of all to understand about the number of victims, to take account of the excuses that some crime happened because there were minor or larger excuses, to reciprocate what happened because every manipulation offends all victims. What we need to do with this act is give peace and respect to the victims, give peace and sympathy to the survivors. What we need to do today is say – Serbia does not stand behind those who committed this crime. Serbia does not distinguish between victims. Serbia equally appreciates each victim, expressing, above all, deep compassion for the sacrifices committed to others. If you just let me paraphrase GolduMeir who said we'll forgive them for what they did to us, but we don't have to forgive those who did it by hiding behind our national name.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37803	Does MP Jovan Palalic, who has given his opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Palaly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37804	Dear People's MPs, I have issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee because the proposed text is such that the victims of civil war in the area of the former Yugoslavia and are arguing with the peoples, because this text does not condemn crimes against the Serb people who suffered the most in those wars and because in its content, and at the moment when such a declaration is brought, is also opposed to the interests of Serbia, the Serbian people and Republika Srpska. There was a debate here why an emergency procedure. A motivation should be seen why Serbia's public debate on this declaration was launched right now. I will remind you that it was launched at a time when meetings were held in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Butmir aimed at suspending the Dayton Agreement in order to put pressure on the Republika Srpska, and Republika Srpska is left without its powers. An emergency procedure is because a conference is being held in Madrid in mid-April, which is also due to lead to a revision of the Dayton Agreement and effectively destroy the Republika Srpska. Now that there is no one there, as estimated by those who have directed the whole event, which can put pressure on Republika Srpska, there will be Serbia that will further weaken Republika Srpska's positions by adopting such a resolution. This power has not heard a single moment, nor has the government of the Republika Srpska and all political parties, and the fighting organisations, citizens of Republika Srpska, who have all asked aloud – what are you doing to us now? Instead of implementing those provisions of agreements with special parallel ties between Serbia and Republika Srpska, representatives of the two governments have sat down and agreed on what is in the deepest interest of both Serbia and Republika Srpska, a resolution like this is being adopted by our brothers through Drina. The resolution, as it is said here, allegedly requires crimes so that it individualises to match individuals, but, in its text, this resolution points to Serbia's responsibility. Point 1) says: Apology to victims' families for not doing everything to prevent this tragedy. To what extent was Serbia responsible for the tragedy in Srebrenica? As far as I know, the policy of the previous government in the 1990s was that after May 92, when the army of then-Yugoslavia had withdrawn, there was no responsibility nor any presence of Serbia's military forces in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now, through this one formulation, Serbia admits indirectly some of its command responsibility at the events in Srebrenica. This places a mark on the state of Serbia, not individuals who have committed crimes. This is a responsibility that will fall on all future generations in Serbia, that Serbia is responsible and did not prevent what was happening in Srebrenica. Of course, there is also a very important question as to how Serbia, when adopting such a devastating declaration, will lead politics. It is obvious that when the overall policy of this government is seen, set with only one goal to which everything has been given on the altar, which is – Europe has no alternative, then EULEX will be accepted in Kosovo, then a resolution like this will be brought and the Republika Srpska will be pressed, in order to come into some position that perhaps a small piece of European integration will be achieved at the expense of the national interests of the Serbian people. That is why this resolution cannot in any way be justified or accepted by the citizens of Serbia or by the Serbian people. That someone will apologize to Serbs in their parliaments really represents that level and that degree of naivety to ask is it just naive? The policies and messages sent by representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia do not indicate that. (President: Mr. Palalic, please bring the end, it's been five minutes.) ) The DSS and New Serbia have proposed their declaration to condemn all crimes against Serbs and crimes against all other nations, not to forget either "Blash", or "Storm", or NATO bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37805	Proposer representative, the People's MP, Hope Kolundji, wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37806	No one will forget any crime, and they won't forget any victims. What gives us credibility to insist on respecting our victims and seeking responsibility for their perpetrators is to show the ability to condemn criminals who have committed a crime to someone else. I can only interpret a person's desire to protect real perpetrators from responsibility. Because if you have no desire, then no one can say that if the people say "no", we will not stand behind those who committed this crime, we condemn this crime and condemn those criminals," then that people say - in no way can I bear the blame for what the individual did. In addition, the International Court of Justice made a decision by which Serbia is not responsible for the Srebrenica crime. Of course, referring to that verdict and that decision by the International Court of Justice, no one can say that by condemning a crime and expressing condolences with the victims someone annuls such a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37807	Among MPs first Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37808	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37809	Excuse me, please, someone has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no way, you have to show the Rules of Procedure that I know it is. Mr. Palalic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Dwarf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37810	I just said it's in the deepest interest...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37811	Please tell me which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37812	Article 101, misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37813	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37814	I just said it is in Serbia's deepest interest to condemn all crimes and not make any difference between the crimes that took place in the former Yugoslavia's space in civil wars and in the bombing of the NATO pact of Republika Srpska and Serbia. You can't make a difference...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37815	I'm sorry, Mr. Palalic, that article 101 you called for regulates the question of the replica. So you can't call him when you're talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37816	I was misread, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37817	No, you don't have a word on that basis. So you didn't get the right to a replica. Mr. Judjevich, please sign in again. The same violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37818	Article 104. Madam President, we finished consulting 20 minutes ago. Those consultations were not attended by representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. But I don't know if you've made contact with them afterwards. It is unacceptable for us to tolerate a debate that places a sign of equality between victims, uncontested victims of the Serb people, and individuals, Serbs who committed crimes. General convictions are something we've talked about so many times. We have a specific agenda point here, it's defined by the promoter and we're talking about it. Just because we talk about a crime in Srebrenica doesn't mean that we don't respect the victims of the Serb people, and in particular it doesn't oblige us to agree to the thesis, which, by discussing all the victims, we are actually protecting the interests of the Serb people by keeping quiet about those who, on our behalf, until we say that it wasn't, among other things, killing other peoples through this debate. Give me here at the beginning to define some of each other's rules. No one can lecture us here on patriotism and interpret our actions the way it suits him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37819	The public works once again – after meeting at the College, where we have indeed agreed that the atmosphere, filled with dignity, is also necessary in today's work. I really ask you all to make a contribution, and in doing so, not influencing each other, to express our views on matters that are on the agenda. Thank you. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, huh? Just sign in, please. He has the word Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37820	Rule 27, first of all, since you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and to violate it yourself. I don't know what time it must be again for you today, not just for you, but for the other presidents. When a MP in his presentation says something that is obviously a misread statement by the previous speaker, the Rules of Procedure determines that this one has the right to replication. It is said there that you decide, as chairman, whether you will give the right to a replica, but you cannot decide on the content of what the member holds within him. He describes exactly what is happening and when someone has a right, it would not say that they have a right to a replica, if you give it to him or do not give it. It's just that it's up to you to decide – you just give the word. How can you say that Jovan Palalic does not have the right to reply, when he is obviously misread in the essential part of the exhibition by the president of the DS Nada Kolundzhija parliamentary group? Now we need to keep it public, who hasn't heard John Palalic, what he said before, what Hope Kolundji said, and that all people think he said and didn't. That's the essence of the debate. You need to be a little more tolerant.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37821	I'd like to explain one more time. Mr. Palalic called for article 101. He said he was hurt by the Rules of Procedure. When I asked which member, he said "101." I couldn't possibly let him explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and Article 101 was injured. You as a good lawyer know that. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Aligrudic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37822	Article 104 - People’s MPs are obliged to treat one another with respect. In my earlier presentation, there was nothing offensive. If you mention my profession, you who are not, and determine whether I am a good lawyer or not, in how I treat myself or how I interpret the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it's kind of an insult. I really ask you to withdraw your word and treat each other with respect, because if you continue to do so, then I will keep reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the same basis, because you will never say the same thing, or you will always say something else that will offend me, and by doing so, you will always create a basis for injury on the basis of Article 104. Therefore, take care of what you say. You can't talk to me like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37823	I'm sorry that my findings, I hope the findings, hurt you. Mr. Judjevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37824	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want here as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities to say that my MPs of the Bosniak List, nor my fellow Members at the Minority Parliament Club, are not proposing the text that today is the subject of the debate. I would like, by one, to say that it would be an obligation for this Parliament to adopt one text of the European Parliament resolution last year, precisely in the context of the fact that 67% of our country's citizens want to see Serbia in full membership, i.e. as a full member of the EU, and that in this way they are manifesting one definition that we are actually sharing common values with other 27 countries, as far as there is in EU membership. I will be free today, as my position and position of my colleagues in the Parliamentary Club of Minorities, so Members of the Bosniak List, to read the text of the 2009 European Parliament Resolution, which I think is in fact the right measure of condemnation of what happened in Srebrenica on 11 July 95. Respecting the resolution of 7 July 2005 entitled "Balkan 10 years after Srebrenica", respecting the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and BiH signed on 16 June 2008, and the Recommendations on EU membership of all Western Balkan countries at the EU Summit in Thessaloniki in 2003, since there was no insulated enclave at that time by the UN Security Council, which declared a safe zone, with its decision taken on 16 April 93th, fell into the hands of the Serb Serb regime, led by General Ratko Mladic, and under the command of the then-born president of the Republika Srpska and the Bosnian Police Units, which entered into the Bosnian territory of Serbia, the main figure of the Croatian people, the figure of the Croatian Serb Serb people, the figure of the former, the figure of the former, the figure of the former, the former, the figure of the former, the former of the former, the former of the former of the former, the former of the former of the former of the former, of the former, of the former, the former of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the former, of the The last item in this resolution of the European Parliament says it requires its president to forward this resolution to the Commission, the governments of the Member States, the government and the parliament of BiH, its entities and regional units, as well as the governments and parliaments of the Western Balkan states. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we believe that this text of the Resolution, which is part of our country's international commitment, should be adopted today in this House. I will be free to remind myself of a few more facts that have been a measure of things that we, as members and representatives of the Bosniak national community in Sandzak and the Republic of Serbia, could have done, as far as this event is concerned. In fact, on the tenth anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, in the context of the Bosniak National Council as a minority self-government body representing the interests of Bosniaks in this country, we made a decision on July 10th 2005 and declared July 11th for the Day of Remembrance, which is an obligation and the right for members of my people living in this country. In the light of the decision at the time, which was before this resolution of the European Parliament, we have actually reminded of two or three important things that Bosniaks as members of a community, or minority in this country have experienced over the past 100 years, so we have reminded that it is actually the Day of Remembrance of 11 July and the Day of Remembrance of 12 thousand Bosniaks who were baptized in Blue and Gusin in 1912. On that day, the Bosniaks remember in this country a massacre in the village of Starcevic on 11 July 1922, also at the massacre in Shahovic, on 11 November 1924. It is a reminder of the genocide during World War II, when Chetniks Draža Mihailovic was slaughtered, killed 108,000 Bosniaks in the former Yugoslavia's space. It is, of course, a reminder of the current events of the 1990s, of the famous abductions in Strpci on 27 February 1993, of the North on 22 October 1992. No one has ever been punished in this country for these crimes. That is why I ask that this high house, as a measure of its international obligations, adopt the text of the European Parliament Resolution, which is in fact the right measure to condemn what happened in Srebrenica. I ask that this parliament, or this state of Serbia, declare July 11th as the day of memory of the victims of genocide in Srebrenica, which is also part of a commitment that stems from this resolution that I read. Of course, the People's MPs of the Bosniak List will wait for the end of the debate on this for us a very painful and emotional topic and will decide on the very act of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37825	I thank Mr. Esad Djudjevic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Judjevic has injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Djudjevic, I responsibly claim as an SRS MP, as someone who knows Serbian history, as a believer of the SPC that the SPC has never violently baptised anyone, including Muslims after the First Balkan War in Blue and Gusinj. It would be good, Mr. Juddjevic, to name at least one SPC priest who allegedly took part in that violent crossover. As for your findings on crimes, as you say, the Chetnic formations of Draža Mihailovic in World War II, I don't know if you're familiar with it, Mr. Djudzevic, the fact that the Chetnik commander in Montenegro, i.e. at the border of Montenegro and Sandzak, Paul Djurisic, the Muslim champions of Sandzak, sent a roasted child to the Serbian people of that region. So don't unilaterally show events from your people's history or your religious group. You're presenting the facts that were founded in history, and I'd really like to ask you nicely, if we're already talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37827	Mr Martinovic, in advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure you cannot address another MP, you also have your time when you can state your position.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37828	May I speak to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37829	To me, if I hurt the Rules of Procedure and ask you to give an argument, eventually, for something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37830	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I ask you, as president of the National Assembly, to take protection from such an important institution as the Serbian Orthodox Church, from the extremely unfounded and unargumented accusations that Serbian priests were violently translated into Orthodoxism anywhere, because the historical fact that it was the Serb people, that the priests of the Serbian Orthodox Church were the great victims...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37831	Your suggestions and comments, and I really do ask you, are absolutely not in line with the reason for reporting and reporting that you are doing this because the Rules of Procedure has been injured and I ask you not to put me in a position to react otherwise. Please, there is no reason for replication, I warned, Mr. Martinovic expressed an attitude that is absolutely not in line with the report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I reacted. Does Mr. Ilic want, as president of the parliamentary group? Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37832	I don't know why you ignored me, so first you wanted to give the right to a word by regular procedure, when I pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Article 106(1) was injured almost all the way. I think we agreed that today's session tone be appropriate to the seriousness of the topic we're discussing. You have not warned Mr. Djudjevic for any time that this is an unmistakable call for conflicts within the Serbian state, that this was a promotion of some Serb crimes exclusively against Muslims and that this declaration is therefore being brought forward. You didn't warn him when he started speaking from the beginning of the 20th century about what he believed to be a Serb crime against Muslims. Mr. Judjevich, we won't get that far. Today I have not prepared at all to speak of your people in such a way, and you have prepared yourselves in an ugly way, making false, facts from the point of view of your political party about the Serbian people to speak of a great nation with which you live in the community. Mrs. Dejanovic, I think that the college's decisions should be respected by all MPs, especially by the ruling majority. If you didn't feel the need to react, everyone in the room was baffled. It now turns out that Srebrenica was created because Serbs throughout the 20th century have been persecuting, killing, baptizing, and what they don't do with Muslims. It really doesn't make sense. We're either going to have a cultural debate, or we're going to have a conflict debate. Then let's start with the facts, and I'll point out some facts tragically to his people, but I guess today is not the topic of conflict, but of calming down, Mr. Judjevich. Your discussion cannot reconcile us, your discussion opens trenches between Serbs and Muslims. Is that your wish? Tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37833	Time. National MP Velimir Ilic, as president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37834	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for months to open a debate on the declaration, and the parties have submitted an extremely good proposal for a declaration, which would be peaceful and would satisfy everything in the premises of the former Yugoslavia and would bring down the ball and give one political stability, reconcile the peoples and simply put an end to something that was in the past, to turn to the future, economy, production, employment and what are the burning problems today. However, this violence of the ruling majority, which is trying to push its declaration through and dig up the war axes again, has shown the discussion of Mr. Djudjevic, and to return everything that once happened, to initiate conflicts, problems again, does not lead to good. Someone pressures you, someone who doesn't want Serbia well, exerts extreme pressure to adopt a special declaration about Srebrenica, not mentioning other crimes that were on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, with some silent promise that some other declaration will eventually be adopted that will cover all this other. Why is the crime separate? New Serbia condemns crimes in Srebrenica, I think that every normal Serb condemns crimes in Srebrenica, but no less were crimes in other parts. Let's not say that in Bratunc, Sarajevo, across Serbia, in "The Storm", in "The Flash", these crimes were milder, perhaps numerically smaller, etc., but the crime is a crime and the perpetrator of the crime must be punished. The criminals have to identify and run certain actions, but we can't get one Srebrenica out and discuss it, adopt it, and put everything else on the other hand, and sometimes debate it. Whether this debate will come up or not is a question, because you will never get a chance to talk to this ruling majority of yours. Therefore, Madam President, you have humiliated this parliament because you have forced one agenda, which most Serbian citizens do not want to discuss this way. I repeat, every normal man condemns a crime. You're always giving us something. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, in 2001, I think you signed an agreement with the Republika Srpska on parallel ties, i.e. then Serbia-Montenegro, after several years it was renewed with the Republika Srpska and Serbia. However, the agreement reads that a bigger one is being established which makes up the president of Serbia and the president of Republika Srpska, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska. As for the two parliaments, the president of the Serbian Parliament and the president of Republika Srpska's parliament, who must discuss important and large issues, both of which are of interest to one and another country, to discuss, agree and bring common solutions. Now I ask the question -- is this bigger, which was founded, led by Serbian President Boris Tadic and Republika Srpska President Kuzmanovic, where two prime ministers, Dodik and Cvetkovic, have discussed this declaration, have they agreed? Have you, as speaker of parliament, discussed this declaration with the President of the Republika Srpska Parliament, agreed your opinions and views and did the working bodies, as it says in this agreement, the Republika Srpska and the working bodies of our parliament, agree their views on these issues? That's what it says in the Agreement that's signed and still in force. Did you, by putting on the agenda of this declaration, without these previous alignment actions, reject Dayton, flush the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement? How could you agree with the opinion of two parliaments, two councils? Is that what the media was talking about? We have not heard or read anywhere that the president of Serbia and the president of Republika Srpska have discussed this, that the two governments have agreed. You have completely put this agreement, which was signed, out of force and brought here by a group of your supporters who support that government, into an adventure to adopt a special agreement, or declaration of Srebrenica, and everything else about it. Why is the less important crime that took place in Storm? Is there a greater genocide than to banish the entire people from one country and even when he was leaving that country to bomb a column, kill a non-monetary, kill children, tear down the planes of that column, and just put it all in an ad act and say, well, maybe we'll discuss it sometime? Is that famous "Glass" for you completely minor? The victim is a victim, no matter who did it, the criminal is a criminal. You put us here, I listened very carefully to a minority MP who spoke about the young man. His countryman has been the main man for 10 years to catch Mladic. You, gentlemen of the ruling majority, have been in power for two years now, saying that some of the previous governments did not want to, but that you would deal with it immediately. That's what you said at all the meetings you had. Why don't you solve it? Why don't you ask your friends why they can't bring Bin Laden to justice? It's very important to us because some of his men were involved in all of this, in genocide. Why do you now attribute Mladic to us, why is the people of Serbia responsible for something that happened in Republika Srpska's territory? Why doesn't your most powerful friendly states solve the question of one of the biggest terrorists in the world, but everyone's quiet? Arrest Mladic. You said you wanted to do it right away. Who's bothering you? Do you mind if the opposition settle this issue? You don't mind anyone. What you now want to push through a small door undermines one hatred in Serbia, fuels one climate, irritates families whose victims were killed in many crimes that were on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. I can't understand that you support it? What was wrong with being a joint declaration, to be named, to be said – and Srebrenica is there, and all other criminals must be held accountable as those for Srebrenica, and they must be brought to justice in The Hague? Why the double arches, why the double politics, why do you want generations coming to Serbia to place a stamp that may never be freed? Who makes you do that? To justify the bombing, to justify the poored uranium, to justify the fact that now Albanians die massively from cancer, leukemia and many diseases that plague Serbia. Who ordered it, and is that a crime, to throw cluster bombs at an innocent population? Is it a crime or not? That's what we need to discuss. You want to do it today in a flash debate to sit and discuss and to agree, to fulfill the form, to telephone and call – here, we adopted it, we fulfilled a commitment. Who gave you this obligation, who gave you this text? Where does this text come from, and why didn't it come early to MPs and positions and opposition? Why couldn't it have been discussed in a different way, to find some solutions? I repeat, it does not occur to us to defend any criminal and any crime committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, but for all crimes it is necessary to answer. Do you remember when someone drowned an 18-19-year-old soldier in that tank, unarmed? Did he answer? Where is this man today? Did a mother, a father, lose their son and not mention today that it was a crime? Was that a crime on Voluntary Street when he was let out of the army convoy peacefully, unarmed and left Sarajevo? Was all that supposed to be killed, blown up, and that's why you didn't answer? Many today hide it, cover it, bail it out, raise money, etc. Wasn't it an important crime for mothers or fathers who lost their children there compared to Srebrenica? It's the same important thing, and that's how. I repeat, we condemn both of us, and we don't separate each other, and we don't want to separate the perpetrators from each other. Both must come to The Hague and answer for what they have done and done. Just act like one. You'll get us into a very awkward situation. Don't think, right now, one group full of mouth attacks on Serbian people about crimes, genocide, everything, talk and talk, and they do it every day, especially on certain territories of some countries. We must all stand together in the fight against it if we want peace, security, not to have some accident, such as in Srebrenica, Sarajevo, Bratunac and in many other places. That Kosovo can never repeat itself, that it can be discussed and discussed peacefully, that no one can be violently taken away from a part of the territory and that we are discussing it very seriously in parliament, not like this. We'll discuss it quickly, we'll adopt as we adopt, we have the quorum, we don't have the quorum, one there, one here. This must be a unanimous position of the Serbian parliament and a declaration must be made that will be adopted unanimously and will stand behind each citizen of Serbia if we are to protect these premises. This way, when we do individual work and do certain jobs in this way and fulfill the orders of some commanders, we don't solve the problem, we just heat it up, we irritate it, and we'll come to a worse and worse situation every day. In Republika Srpska, BiH, things have already begun to lie down. People found themselves. Reason wins slowly, but someone wants to reheat it and bring it back, and through this declaration only of Srebrenica to bring this back into play. We're going to have discussions like Mr. Judjevic started, where we're going to spit on each other again, and there's no reason for that. We no longer have the right to play with the future of this country, with a young man who wants to live in it normally and peacefully, who wants to be part of Europe and the world, who doesn't want to fight, who doesn't want to kill, who wants to cooperate, etc. But many don't want that peace. Many are heating up this state, and instead of dealing with what life is for this country, the economy, to work together on other plans, to simply turn young people away from violence, from all that led to crimes, we are returning to the game an old story which, in my opinion, should have long been told and the point put in place. All the time, when we put an end to it, someone shows up and heats up, and promises someone we'll bring it to, and who on behalf of us here could make that promise to whom? I repeat, we are now making a difference between Serbia and Republika Srpska. When Srebrenica itself condemned the crime at its meeting of the Assembly, 18% of Bosniaks and 10% of Serbs, the power ratio was 18-10 in favour of Bosniaks and condemned it, but did not say it was genocide, it already condemned the crimes as an individual crime of the individual who should be responsible. The people can't stop and translate this into some kind of command responsibility and collective responsibility, as you want to show it, and someone wants to show it. This is not collective responsibility, this is the individual's responsibility, as I hope, gentlemen, that what was on Voluntary Street was not the attitude of BiH and its summit, but of some individuals who should respond. I'm glad if that's the case. Then there's hope for this country, there's hope for this youth, there's hope for all of us to get out of this mud that we've fallen into and start the way of development and get over the problems. But someone wants problems in these areas all the time. Who's the one who wants all the trouble? We solve problems all the time, and new ones come forward. The new ones are picking up. I cannot believe that you who have promised miracles, that certain ministers who are now leading the army, military security, have promised that these problems with the Hague indictees will be immediately resolved, that they are on the threshold, that the investigation is on the heels of the five perpetrators. Why don't they solve it? What's the problem? To whom did they promise, and where did they promise? Why is all this promised and done outside parliament? Why don't we ever have a discussion here about these important issues? It's all happening out of parliament. As possible, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that a series of problems have arisen, here goes your governor, leaving a sinking ship and letting him go without reporting here in parliament about his work. For ten years, we haven't known what happened to Serbia, what is the situation, where are foreign reserves, where banks and how have they been spent? Therefore, everything is a problem for you, gentlemen, and you no longer have the ruling majority. Today, you've seen well that you're a minority that's been ragging off a stake and a rope that's been dealing for hours, making breaks, to convince some to vote. You're ashamed to go out and look the truth in the eye and say what you think and what you have to say. What this country deserves to be said is that we are for peace, that we are to defend the dignity of this people, that we are to not stick to Serbia some labels that it does not deserve and that the responsibility of individuals is not passed on to the whole people, and you are to bear and seek the responsibility of those individuals. You're the government and you're on the move. Therefore, withdraw this shameful declaration and do not allow you to share Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37835	Time, Mr. Ilich. Gentlemen, since it would be Mr. Jovanovic's turn now, but let's agree to take a 60-minute break now and let you know that we will be working today after 1800 hours, in accordance with Article 85, until the end of the agenda. We'll have the transfer by 8:00, direct, and after basketball, we'll have an extended transmission. [[After break – 15/05]] The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37837	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's clear that today we speak much more about ourselves than about others. I guess that's why it's so hard to admit the truth that can only be one. Fifteen years after Srebrenica, we still have so many personal problems as the people and society, not only in accepting what happened in Srebrenica, but also in everything that Srebrenica has preceded and that results from these events. That's why this debate is so difficult. That's why everything we've done in the past 15 years has been so much reminded of the mistakes of this society in the past, and I'd like to make a mistake when I say that today we're showing so many flaws and weaknesses that are threatening our future, pointing to the mistakes that we're going to continue to make. When we talk about the role of our people, then we are destined to fail in advance if we do so only as politicians. She can't talk about Srebrenica. She can't talk about the church. She can't talk about Srebrenica. It is not possible for the International Court of Justice to speak of this declaration, and to be silent, say, our university or our academy. Serbia cannot take off its responsibility when Serbia has never taken that responsibility. The president of this country went to Srebrenica five years ago and I guess that's just as symbolic for us as going to William Brant in Warsaw and the Warsaw ghetto. The effects aren't the same. What is it, then, that we can still do to achieve those goals that may not be controversial and that are acceptable to us in the form in which the initiative's representative here in the Assembly announced? We wanted a different resolution about Srebrenica, completely, but it's obviously not possible. Not because our people oppose it, but because there are no internal forces in our society that would make that truth, which we all know well, public. This is why today's resolution is the gesture of the ruling majority, above its maximum, both internal and external. Clearly, the ruling majority is not made on that kind of consensus but on someone else. But when you take the first step, there's nothing left to stop. We will also talk for a long time about what Srebrenica has preceded, and about Srebrenica itself and everything Serbia has to do in order not to put an end to Srebrenica, but to change itself, and thus to make the future of its citizens and everyone in the environment different from that tragic past. We've been killing each other for centuries, and that's why we've been asking so much for reason in this debate. I hope he'll be there by the end of the session. We will never get anywhere if we, as Parliament, show this desire to find someone else for each eye, but we must as people who are responsible for ourselves first, and then for this society that is the hostage of our incompetence and inability, have the courage to offer this society the truth. If we don't do it today, who will? The amendments we have proposed have not been proposed with the ambition given to the majority that has been drawn up around the text of the resolution we accuse of hypocrisy, and it is true that in this situation apparently our position is more comfortable, you are the authority, and we are the opposition. We have proposed these amendments with a desire to define in this way the basics on which we will have to work further. We can't quote the verdict, we can't mention the International Court of Justice's verdict, and we can't mention it as a whole. If we want justice before that court in the process we are conducting, seeking a solution for Kosovo, then there is no reason to remain silent about what that court said. No one in the world has accused the Serb people of genocide and no one in the world has said that Serbia is responsible for genocide. The international court of justice was inexorably clear. In his ruling, according to BiH, the International Court of Justice ruled with 13:2 that Serbia is not responsible for the genocide committed on the territory of the Srebrenica municipality, and that our responsibility stems from the fact that we did not fully respect the Convention for the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide because we have long done nothing to ensure that those who committed genocide were responsible. The second responsibility found stems from the fact that we did not respect the court's provisional measures of April and September 93rd. That's why we shouldn't keep our mouths shut about that verdict. We should make it very clear that the International Court of Justice has determined the responsibility of Serbia, which and if we want to escape, we will not be able to escape. We're wanted for immediate measures, which was back in 2007. Three years after that, we start talking about Srebrenica and we'll talk about it for a long time, because one gesture can't change anything. In these conversations, we must take care of those whom we insult with our relationship with Srebrenica. I guess our people can understand that. We are a people who are a historical victim and all those bones that come back to us from generation to generation commit us to say that Srebrenica stands apart from all other monstrous crimes from the wars of the 1990s. It's isolated by the number of victims. It's isolated from the victim's death. The International Court of Justice and the UN tribunal have found that genocide has been carried out in the Srebrenica area and we do not need to keep quiet about it. In his judgment to General Krstic, the court is inexorably clear. All facts are laid down, circumstances and sanctions. In none of these cases, it is not mentioned our people as responsible or our country, which of course does not mean that we have the right to be hypocritical, which was thus expressed in the previous 15 years through Serbia's relationship with both the Serbian people and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This country pushed them into war, and then when she decided to do what she always did so well, to escape from her own responsibility, that people sacrificed. That is why in the amendments, we have asked to mention Republika Srpska and show our readiness not only to respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity and integrity, but also to be prepared to preserve the Dayton Bosnia, as long as the people of Bosnia want to live in these frameworks and on these grounds. We've been keeping too quiet about Ratko Mladić. We've been hiding him for years, then looking for him unsuccessfully for years, and today we don't have the strength to say why he's being charged. Who are we protecting with that? I mean no one. That concession and the silence we make each other is a big mistake. The truth should be told that the man, as commander of the Republika Srpska Army, took over from the forces of the United Nations the Srebrenica Enclave, protected by previous agreements and by the UN Security Council's decision. He guaranteed respect for the Geneva Convention and peace, and then he separated men from women for seven days and systematically killed men, boys, buried them in primary tombs, and then we found out that next to the primary tomb there was a secondary tomb, dug, tied, mixed bones, and did it all in such a way that we didn't owe him anything today, that we couldn't pay back our debts to the families of the murdered and that we owe so much to our people. We need to make a clear distinction between us and him. Why is it so hard for us in this business? Because he wasn't alone in it. Serbia cannot ratify the burden by the generals going to leave for the UN tribunal's final redundancy. Someone took these generals to war, someone blessed them, someone justified what they did. They're all a hindrance on our way to normal life today. If we were running for EU membership, then we must have committed ourselves to respecting some new values. These values are seen in the text of this resolution, but they are not clear enough. I think it's rare that people at this point can respect and love life as ours, because we've suffered so much. But how can we love our lives and be indifferent to someone else? Then we're being dishonest. That's why we have to respect July 11th. This country formed 10 years ago, by the will of its president, the Commission for Truth and Reconciliation, who did nothing. Last week we stopped for a moment marking the 99th anniversary of the bombing. We don't even know today how many of our citizens died in that war. We don't remember our victims. We don't learn at our own loss. We don't draw smart conclusions from mistakes, and that's why everything we're talking about today should be a turning point. Is she convincing enough? It's not. Does it cause any damage? I hope we minimized it. It would not be good for us to share Serbia again on these topics. We need to understand our citizens of Bosniaks, they're particularly sensitive today, those people who have lived in their own country. The North, the Strpts, all that they listened to for years and what they were exposed to is a disgrace to us as most of Serbia. That is why you should expect a different relationship with them than the one that marked even the work on this resolution. We as parliament cannot be successful in this alone. For all I know, Jesus was crucified because of the truth. Why are our bishops silent about Srebrenica? Why don't they say something about it? History is very complicated, but it's the worst when politicians interpret it. It's a theme for, say, our Academy. She's not gonna be remembered just by the Memorial, is she? Whatever they were trying to do to him, they caused damage. When we're so alone in this business, then we're doomed to failure. That's the experience of the President of the Republic. He went to Srebrenica, and Serbia hasn't changed. He arrested with Karadzic Socialists, Serbia hasn't changed. Today we will also adopt a resolution, and it will have a minimal impact on life in Serbia. All the questions we inherited will remain open. It is therefore necessary to establish a different relationship. This is step one. It would be good if he were braver and more concrete, but it's not real and it won't be realistic until our people hear the full truth. That truth is our duty. If the other one's quiet, we can't. That's why it needs to be very clear. The International Court of Justice's ruling obliges us not only to accept it completely but also to apply it. To announce it first to the citizens of Serbia and then to tell what our obligations are. We owe Bosnia and Herzegovina a lot. This debt is not only returned by the finding of what is left of us, but also by some perspective that we need to create, by opening up the possibility of a normal life. I'm afraid this isn't a good way to do something like that. The fact that they are silent today because Turkey has closed their mouths because our interests have coincided with our interests, and so do we, too, do not respond to genocide, to them over Armenians, and to us in Srebrenica, does not mean that the issue is forever resolved. The mouth will open up in front of us some time. When we talk about Srebrenica and the resolution, we primarily think about our European future. Half a billion Europeans said what they had to say about the events in Srebrenica. How do we think we can come to their understanding if we have some interpretation in this case? How are we supposed to be a part of the EU, which in its calendar will cross over on July 11th or are we going to waste it, as we have done on other occasions so far? It's our common curse. In 2001, we thought in March that individuals could take responsibility on behalf of the entire nation. After 2000, we believed that it was possible to leave some difficult questions where they were and put in the past behind us, so they returned very quickly to our faces. Today, when we look at children who exclaim - knife, wire, Srebrenica - we need to realize that they are the product of our incompetence, of our powerlessness, of our absence of courage. They were born after the war, they were never in Bosnia, but they know what it is they need to say to prove they are real Serbs. Belgrade was torn down two years ago because someone thought that this could prove their love for Kosovo. It's not them who are responsible. It's us who didn't raise them properly. We have proposed amendments, but it is clear that these amendments do not require a majority. I'd like to do it again, not for the media, but for the people who must be listening to us. We must respect the International Court of Justice's verdict, and it is clear, through the conclusion that the genocide has been committed in Srebrenica, because 8,000 people have been systematically killed there, and through the emphasis of our willingness to accept the European Parliament resolution, which on July 11th defined as the day of remembrance of Srebrenica, we show genuine remorse for what our people have done. Is that insulting to Serbian victims? It's the most reckless manipulation and lie. I cannot defend Serbian victims by equating myself with Serbian executioners. We have suggested that in the text of the resolution must express respect and sincere regret for all victims in the wars in the former Yugoslavia's space. I think that was necessary anyway. In the resolution we're going to discuss on Thursday, we're just going to repeat the mistakes of today. We can spend a lot of time in these discussions. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. I am glad that this topic is still open and that we will make sure that we are the guardians of values that we will certainly share in time before us, at least with a part of today’s majority, which does not have enough strength for this moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37838	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic. Irregularity in the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37839	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency (President: Bell), ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us of course a declaration that unnecessarily caused a series of controversy in the public. I consider this content of the text of this declaration to be right in relation to all the sentiments of those who might find themselves offended. When I talk about it, I'm talking about all those who have suffered major family accidents in the time of the wars in former SFRY space. I believe that these declarations are equidistant, exudes everything that is our obligation as politically responsible people, exuding that perhaps today is the moment for this to be a waterhouse. and most of the citizens who bear the sovereignty of this country may not try for the first time or for the first time we have the possibility to have that majority that will not deal with the negation of crime. [[elevator in the O.R.]] The crimes that occurred in Srebrenica, but also in the former SFRY area, are the crimes that took place. When we talk and bid on the number of victims, I think we're wrong. Every victim is a great loss. Every human right is universal, as is a crime universal. Those who try to present this declaration -- that it is nihilistic, that Serbia has not changed, I also think they are wrong. Serbia has changed a lot because of raising awareness of what was happening in the former SFRY premises, which, of course, we are also responsible, but all those who were then involved in this in our former common state. I also believe that those who speak of the International Court of Justice's verdict, in addition to being, of course, the highest legal institution of the UN, that is, an institution before which we expect an advisory opinion on the anti-cancer self-provement of KIM independence, so, in addition to what they say, of course, and that fact, we must bear in mind that the International Court of Justice has also reached one verdict. The International Court of Justice is, in fact, a measuring and reference institution that can rule and determine the level of crime that took place in a given space. I believe that is why it is very important and the request of the SPS Group – JS that we do not deal with the legal definitions of the level of crime, but that we get the strength to reach a broader consensus in the comprehensive political condemnation of the crime that took place in Srebrenica, and of course against the members of the Serb people at the premises of the former SFRY, which, of course, will follow, as announced here today, practically be initiated at the College on Thursday, and I am sure that it will be adopted very quickly in this home. We can't share the victims, we have to treat the crimes in the same way. It's the only way to show a high level of responsibility to human rights, which, I repeat, is universal. This is how we protect both the dignity and the moral authority of our country and our citizens. The legitimate initiative of the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, of course, has come across controversial views, but I am also sure of the majority support when he launched this initiative. We in the region must and should be leaders and initiators of such activities and of such tendencies, for the simple reason that we are the greatest and I believe that we must try to initiate, in practice, to give birth to others, so to our partners, an identical relationship to the crimes that have been happening. No one wanted to affect this declaration in a negative way in the sentiment of the Serbian people, because our parliamentary group would never vote for such or such content of the declaration. So nobody will forget Kravica or Skelana or Sarajevo or Tuzla or Flash or Storm, but if we keep looking back at the past -- we won't have a brighter future, we won't have a more successful regional co-operation, we won't get to the level of trust and reconciliation that we need across. That's why I think this declaration is a real measure for those who are critics for one extreme attitude, as well as for those who are critics for another extreme attitude. We can't practice some nationalism that we don't need over here. I think it is much more important to call things a real name and condemn what really happened – either in Srebrenica, or in all of these Serb people's strategies that I mentioned. I believe that this is a practically civilizational step for both us as states and our citizens, and what preceded the International Court of Justice ruling, which followed in 2007, 26 February, was the Commission's report on the crimes committed and the number of victims committed in Srebrenica, which was practically then signed by the current incumbent President of Republika Srpska, Mr Cavic. So even the sentiments of our countrymen through the Drina, as someone called them here today, simply can't be compromised by this fact, because this has been a long time ago. It was something that preceded this verdict, based on the findings of the Republika Srpska government, which was then chaired by Mr Mikerevic, if I am not mistaken, adopted on 28 February 2004. Now it is a bit paradoxical that some parties who, during the chairmanship of Mr Cavic, had very correct relations with him and his party at the time, he is now leading the Democratic Party in Republika Srpska, which is the opposition, are now saying something quite the opposite. In any case, I think that one of these acts is a brave act, one hard act, but I think through the necessary act of showing that we are all here together to condemn a crime or we are about to continue to compromise crimes and give them some national prefix. I don't think that's necessary. I believe that this declaration cannot be the result of the pressure of the international community. If that were the case, then we would be politically infancy and politically irresponsible, so that respecting that the international community is the cause of such a declaration is simply not based on facts. Maybe some others were scared or used to being pressured. That, at least from the Socialist Party of Serbia, cannot be respected. What should in any case be the product of this declaration and the adoption of this declaration is one clear message. I believe that those who want to read the contents of the declaration in a kind and well-intentioned way can also see that crimes against the Serb people are also condemned, that an identical treatment by parliaments in the region is expected, but the most important message is the message of reconciliation, but of course all crimes by all actors in the former Yugoslavia are condemned. When we reach that level, and we're practically peopleally pulling a leg, I think there's going to be a possible reconciliation and a beneficial regional co-operation. I think it's very important that we're the ones who pulled the leg, and I think history will show that I was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37840	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I brought here a capital piece. It's the Encyclopaedia of the Serbian people. The publisher is "The Bookhouse." The editor-in-chief is our famous historian and almost academicist Radoš Ljušić, 2008. Open page 1064, come to the definition under the letter "S" and read what is said in the Encyclopedia about Srebrenica. "The town settlement and centre of the municipality, 293km square in Republika Srpska. It is located on the valley side of the Red River, on both sides of the regional road towards Bratunac. It extends in the altitude range from 420m to 480m above sea level. It unites several urban continents – center, city, Red River, Bratovo, Karanfil, Skender, Petrič and others. Since ancient times, it has been known for its developed mining, silver production, which gives it its name, and lead. The first time is mentioned in 1376. By the early 1990s, the population of Srebrenica lived predominantly Muslim (64%) and Serbian (29%), as well as on the territory of the same-named municipality, where 37,211 people lived in 1991. During the 1991 - 1995 war events, the population had a major population shift. It would be said that in those several July days of 1995, 8,000 Bosnian Muslims were moved two metres underground and that the biggest crime in Europe occurred after World War II. Who wanted to know about Srebrenica, he knew back in 1995 what had happened there, and who didn't want to know, he is today defaming and relating this event, not only in the way it was done in the Encyclopaedia of the Serb people, but also through a bunch of pamphlets, some of which we have received today, quasinal works, gatherings, the nationalistic right-wing stands, which prove themselves and show what really happened in Srebrenica. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 15 years after Srebrenica, must bring this declaration and condemn the crime in Srebrenica precisely for itself and for its citizens, and for those who know and those who do not know, especially those who know and deny, and for whom Srebrenica is only a fraud in eastern Bosnia in which the alleged crime took place. Bringing this declaration must be absolutely honest. It should have nothing to do with the EU or the transition or politics at all. She should have something to do with whether we can answer the question if we're human at all. Not only are Serbs and not all Serbs committed war crimes, but those Serbs who did so must be clearly and unequivocally convicted, so that the blame for this would not fall on generations who came after us. Only if we are prepared to catharticly face the proportions and monstrosity of the Srebrenica massacre, can we, as citizens of Serbia and as Serbs, ask other peoples of the former common state to condemn crimes committed against Serbs during the bloody fall of our former Yugoslavia. For those Serbs who are believers, let them read what Bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic says: "Do not be hasty to talk about other people's sin until you remember your own sin." We cannot influence whether and when the Croats and Bosniaks will condemn the killings of Serbs in "Storm", "Bleek", Kravica, Bratunac, Skelani and many other Serb sites, but what we can and must do is apologize in the most sincere and only possible way to families, friends of the killed Bosniaks in Srebrenica, because Srebrenica is the measure of our humanity and our peaceful dream, but also the measure of the relationship between Serbia's official to the symbol of the death in the 1990s wars. Recognizable war and nationalist policy ideologists from the late 1980s and during the 1990s, by making a declaration, they lose the battle with normal, human, tolerance and human Serbia, the one Serbia that has so many times withdrawn from the difficult nationalist artillery fire and the one Serbia who is still silent today when virtually all those who have unhappy us all these past years, not only us, but also our environment, those who have justified their existence by denying Srebrenica. Among them are the father of the nation, the richest leftist and editor of one striking magazine, some self-called Euro-American anti-Globalist intellectuals whose Serbia is an opportunity to come out of anonymity and all those who in our stadiums and in our halls cry out that creepy cry "knife, wire, Srebrenica". Today in front of this family, there is no seduction and no justification for those who killed the Bosniaks from Srebrenica on our behalf and who made the most extreme part of the fatal stage of the nationalist policy of ethnic cleansing, lies and hatred. There is a clear majority in the National Assembly who will vote for this declaration. There is no consensus, but it should not be with those who every March 12th beautifuld Bulevar Dr Zoran Djindjic, the first killed Serbian prime minister, the boulevard of a Srebrenica executioner, and there seems to be no consensus with those who stopped doing it two years ago, but I don't know if they have the courage today to confirm in practice their self-proclaimed Europeanism. By voting for this declaration, we condemn the Srebrenica death factory and we can tell everyone from here never to repeat it to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37842	On the basis of Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I note that the authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group, according to the agenda, will be Mr Dragoljub Micunovic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37843	On behalf of the SNS, I strongly condemn all crimes committed in the civil war on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, both crimes against the Serb people and crimes committed by Serb peoples against other peoples, especially crimes committed against Muslims of Srebrenica in July 1995 and cited in the International Court of Justice verdict. On behalf of the SNS, I express my condolences to the families of the victims in Srebrenica, given that the International Court of Justice found that the then government and the international community could, through better co-operation, make the consequences of this tragedy averted or significantly reduced. At the beginning of this year, we learned from the president of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly will bring a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica. I suppose it's some kind of ultimatum, since we've heard here, when we've already highlighted the EU membership bid, then we have to point out that everything you present here as your ultimatum to Serbia is actually a condition without which we cannot join the EU. We have learned about the text of the declaration, which has been presented to you by the ruling majority who will vote for this, some from Belgrade, some from KIM, some from Republika Srpska, and we have tried to reach an agreement to reach some common text. You'll see that text. We today, when it is established that nothing can be arranged with you anymore, that, apart from accepting that a sentence of the former regime should come out of the text, nothing can be changed, no point, no point, no comma, no motion to the National Assembly of the text of a declaration which we would be willing to accept for it to vote. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly, when he can so spotfully deliver your acts within 15 minutes, to meet the MPs and the text proposed by the SNS. I think it is a text that would not refuse any MP here and voted for by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But you didn't want the text of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you wanted your text, the text that you all received in the near form, the text on whose original was the date of 2009, the text that you should present here as catharsis, as one of the MPs said here, as something that is normal, that we all stand up and condemn a crime. Yeah, we're all standing still, condemning a crime and expressing our condolences. But we're a people too. So you'd like us to declare ourselves the sole culprits for everything that happened and condemn our people as the only people who committed the crime. People don't commit crimes, they're made by individuals. Don't let the people apologize for the crimes of individuals. Then there would be no people on the territory of the former Yugoslavia who were not criminally or criminally, because individuals of all nations committed crimes. You wouldn't have an innocent people in the world, because there are no members of the world's people who didn't commit a crime. Not to mention the state policies of crimes that existed in the world, so I didn't read anywhere that these nations were publicly apologizing for what even their state policy had done. A lot of things bother you in this text of the Declaration, a lot of things that could have been fixed, if you had the courage to list others and your victims, to list your and other crimes. I don't think it takes any courage. A greater courage is needed to list only your victims, and it borders on stupidity to apostrophe only crimes committed by members of your people, because here today children are born in whose name you now say you apologize. Don't apologize on my behalf, don't apologize on behalf of anyone who hasn't committed any crimes. Who are you to apologize on behalf of the innocent? You're not out of your mind to apologize on behalf of the guilty, are you? They blame the court, blame us for punishing and condemning innocents to be left alone, accidentally born in a Serbian cradle, by accident in a Orthodox cradle. We are here today on all sides attacked by being Orthodox, that our priests did not condemn the crime. They don't punish priests, they don't judge priests. We have learned here that we must do this because of some ruling by the International Court of Justice, and the world history is going through a lot of judgments that later on mankind's development has brought down. Don't we now rehabilitate the people the communists have declared war criminals? What about the victims of the Inquisition? Were those innocent people, the ones that were burned? Is there something universal for all time? Where does this take us, waiting for you to propose another declaration to determine that we Serbs have suffered some kind of loss? What are you guys splitting up for? What should we first talk about what happened in Srebrenica, and then you will ask us – let's agree on what Serbian strategy to make? What do we name sites in the first place? Isn't crime itself serious? Wasn't that where the Muslim mothers cried? Aren't they Serbian here, aren't they Croatian? You were unable to convince the parliaments of other states to bring these declarations about their peoples. You haven't been able to raise our victims to that level where other people's victims are. Who in the world did you convince that the European Parliament should bring a single declaration of condemnation to Serbian victims? You'd just like to listen to the European Parliament. Who was there to represent our interests? Who made a complaint? Who made the amendment? Why do you bind yourself in that preamble exclusively to the Civil and Political Rights Pact, the European Convention, etc., that you are attached to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocides if there was no genocide in Srebrenica? Do you know that the Muslim world does not recognise these sources, but rather the 90s Cairo Declaration, under which Sharia law is more important than any other international obligation? Aren't we in Serbia made up of more faith and nations? There are nations who don't recognize what we confess. There are nations who pray for their god in a different way, and you should think of them as their right to mention them here. What could we change for you in what you wrote and be acceptable for all citizens? What if every single one of these places leads exclusively to Serbia as guilty? What if you say that the integrity and sovereignty of all UN member states are guaranteed, and then you add BiH. What kind of precedent is that? It's guaranteed to everyone or maybe one day it'll write -- it's guaranteed to everyone, but it's not guaranteed to Serbia, because when you make an exception in one direction, you can do it in another, and that's where I mean KIM. What makes BiH stand out, since it is already guaranteed? Because someone's gonna set us up with KIM, because it doesn't seem to be guaranteed. If we respect the International Court of Justice's ruling, if it finds that there has been an illegal secession of KIM, will this be a reason for other states that have recognised independence to give up recognition of independence? He won't, I'm telling you now. We are a small country, great nations in this country. They have a great history, although you in this seventh-grade textbook, when you mention textbooks, did you see that your children no longer have the subject of history, it's called – the mosaic of the past. We want to mark some events from the mosaics of the past of the Serbian people, Croatia. That's how you're slowly changing our minds. Do you think we can't see that? You think he has to. Not necessarily, and in this great community of European peoples, not everything has to be accepted, otherwise countries would drown, peoples, languages would drown. Why do you bring a declaration that does not reflect the will of the majority? What do you count to 126? What if some 126 other people cancel this declaration, as you were canceling the Declarations of the National Assembly by 2000, resolutions, laws, court decisions? What if you experience the same fate that the previous regime experienced when you came to power? If we're going to bring something for all time, we're going to get everybody behind it. What arrangement did we have with the president of the National Assembly today: to keep the tone of peace and tolerance? Is that the agreement on the text of the declaration? Are you all okay with this text? No, you got it, you got to raise your hand, they'll count you down. What if you didn't raise your hand? You from PUPS have reached the director of the "Serbishum". Are you fighting for public enterprises or for pensioners' rights? Who's that pensioner who became the director of "Serbishum"? The rest of you are fighting to sell Telecom, G17 600m euros to share with your activists to form a regional party, 600m euros from the sale of Telecom. I'd be ashamed. I'd knock my head off. You, Mr. Ivanji, what did you say I was involved in the sale when Milosevic sold "Post", how are you not ashamed? We were in opposition when it was sold and it sold better than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37844	Please, don't speak to the MPs in such a tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37845	I'm sorry, but the gentleman lied on state television, on which he had no access, that I was involved in the sale when your Milosevic sold "Post". I have to tell him I wasn't involved. I was in opposition. Excuse me, please, for defending what you did as a major Serbian ideology. Let's move on, we're referring to the words of an apology. There's a need to be careful. Bring in whoever committed the crimes before the sentence apologizes. Why should we apologize here? How can I apologize for something I didn't do? To apologize for someone else's sake, that's cynical. Remove the consequences of the crime, not apologize. There's nothing coming from the apology. When are we going to have some reciprocity in relations with other countries and other peoples, when we say, "Let's all make a decision together one day to just remind ourselves of what we did 10, 15 years ago, let's erase from the memory of the crimes we committed to each other and leave a reminder that we don't do it anymore?" When will Slovenia bring this declaration, when will Croatia, when will BiH entities, when will Albania apologize for what it has done to us? As long as we, someone said here, pull the leg. What kind of leg did we pull? Who's in the column behind us now who's going to apologize to us? It is a difficult step to admit that someone committed a crime, admit it - the Serb committed a crime. It's hard for me, I admit Serbs have committed a crime, but it's even harder to step when no one will say it – I committed a crime against Serbs and there is no sanctions. Today you have a crime of genocide in Croatia. No one can go back there today to live on their property, today they'll be expelled, as it was banished to Flash and Storm. Have you ever asked Croatia why it does this, have you ever set any conditions for further co-operation, to at least stop it? You're not. You looked nice in Opatija, both of you. And what hurts most is this job for the Serbian government. I've been a politician for a long time, but she didn't eat me so much that I didn't think like a man. I don't know what happened to you, none of you are older in politics than I am, except Mr. Micunovic. Where did you lose that thread? You have to go out on the street tomorrow. In which state, in Serbia, you will convince that you will defend it, that it will be equal to all. I'm a witness here that various presidents have been covering up behind parliament. Ahtisaari's agreement -- Chernomirdin brought in one parliament, a parliament in which the SPS, SPO, JUL voted. He's not attributed to Milosevic. He didn't sign anything about it at all. This rape is not about Tadic, nor that director of the Privatisation Agency, but about parliament. Who runs Serbia's internal and foreign policy? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Who's controlling her? Parliament. What was the government supposed to do? If it wasn't enough for her what the Council of Ministers did when he sent his condolences and convicted a crime in Srebrenica, and you're not talking about this the second time, then at least the government could make its decision, like this text, and we're here to discuss whether we accept it or not. Because who are we, the legislative authority, that we condemn a crime? Would you like to tell the court authorities to bring in a declaration like this, that High Council of the Judiciary, in which they sit full of your lawyers from the MPs' benches? Why does the President of the Republic not make such a statement before the flags and with his hand in the Constitution of Serbia? No, it's best for the MPs. When I say that we are a congregation of people, you say we are not a people. Today you say - we are doing this as a people of Serbia. We are the people of Serbia. Honored to have 250 of us. Responsible for having us just this much and think on whose behalf you say this today – on behalf of political parties, on behalf of your neighbours, friends, on behalf of your children, on behalf of your neighbors, on behalf of the unknowns who live in this country, whom you say today – until you do this, you cannot enter the EU until you do so, you cannot enter the EU. Why can't we tell you, until the factories start working, we can't go to the EU? Until the peasant starts making profits in his field, can't we go to the EU? Why are you distracting us that this is our condition for the EU? As they steal government officials, while the government spends our money unlimitedly and uncontrollably, we cannot join the EU? While you have people who have four overseas ships smuggling narcotics, you can't go to the EU, because they had protection here, not in this House, but from the people who run your parties, because they sat with them, and they ate and drank.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37846	Time. Bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37847	I'm done. That's how much Chedomir was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37848	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37849	When we say that this declaration condemns crimes and condemns criminals, then there is really no skill to draw the conclusion that we are taking the blame on behalf of the people. But when someone who thinks Serbia is a safe house for Ratko Mladic, at the same time wants to be shown as someone who understands the values of the EU, in which life's integrity is the basic value, in which each individual is the foundation of every policy, not the means of any policy, then of course it is not difficult to understand why it takes so many words to actually try to avoid a responsible relationship with what Serbia expects in the future. If someone says that seeking responsibility for criminals is to take the blame, then they want to say – it will be easier for criminals, if the whole people are to blame. Then someone is actually trying to protect the criminals, planting the entire people as guilty. What we want to do with this declaration is, not because we have any warrant from anyone, but we have a clear need and responsibility to say – a crime has happened. The crime was committed by individuals, by establishing the responsibility of individuals, we actually want to remove any suspicion from the entire nation and any suspicion from the state. If we don't bring this declaration today, then this question will burden our children as well. If we say today - someone committed a crime and we are prepared to bring these criminals to justice, then we will release the future generations of this burden imposed upon them. It's obviously hard with a little words to find space to support the civilization principle and that human life is incomparable, and that it must not be shared by national, religious or any other sign, then it takes a lot of words, obviously, to avoid condemnation of criminals and criminals. Perhaps, first of all, because it is not clear to those who should do so whether they are on the side of the victim or who committed the crime. That is why it may be easier to say – no, we do not want the Serbian people to release the positions in which they are held hostage. We want to share the fate of not the people, but we want the people to share the fate of those who committed the crime. If we want to build Serbia on the values of European society, then we need to know, above all, what the elemental values of this society are. Human life is the elemental value of that system. What is also a elemental value, is that this human life is not divided according to national, religious or any other belonging, that it has no greater or less value depending on what kind of omen it bears. We're accused here of wanting to change our minds, and that's the only place I can agree with. Yes, we want to change the consciousness in which it was normal to attack on behalf of some vague, dark goals on human life. We want to change the consciousness in which someone thought it was justified to deny the crime. We want to change the consciousness in which someone claimed if we convicted a criminal and a criminal, then we took the blame for the whole people. Yes, we want to change that awareness and we want Serbia to be what it is, according to the potential of its own people, and what has changed in the minds of that people is very often the responsibility of irresponsible politicians, who, falsifying the facts, have tried to poison the consciousness of their own people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37850	The word is Mr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37851	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37852	Excuse me, please. I assume the replica of Tomislav Nikolic? Mr. Senic, the replica to Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37853	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, surely today is not for replication, and I have no intention of answering what Mr Nikolic said in the sense of replication. I just want to say, Mr. Nikolic, that we today have a moral obligation to say what we think about the massacre that took place in July 95th in Srebrenica, which the International Court of Justice, the highest body of justice of the UN, has qualified as genocide. Don't enter any party relations in today's debate. Not particularly, Mr. Nikolic, to enter party relations because of your personal problems. I told you a year ago that the trip from the stage, from which you watch the American embassy burn, to the reception of the American embassy, is not so easy and it's not that simple. Today I am telling you that the path from EU denial to EU entry is also not as easy and simple. I understand how hard it is for you today to send a message to the foreign ambassadors that you want to condemn a crime in Srebrenica, but the focus of the group is different. The focus of the group requires you to say exactly what you're saying today, that your party's rating would be higher by two or three percentage points than DS or any other party in the ruling coalition. But, Mr. Nikolic, let's dedicate today to the truth, let today be a chance for all of us to say what we think of that massacre in Srebrenica. Let's pay tribute today to the victims and families of the victims for this massacre, and tomorrow you have a minister from G 17 or any other political party here, so charge them with Telekom and anything that is legitimate political struggle. But don't get all of us, don't drag the citizens of Serbia into your personal problem because you can't, for the first time since you've crossed the European path, be both nationalist and European. The point has come when you have to determine yourself and you have made your choice, leave us alone to do what is on the agenda and to at least regain the dignity of Serbia, primarily taking care of impaired dignity, and you have been one of the main ideologists of such a policy. You have our support for the European path, but that road, Mr. Nikolic, is very difficult, there are major obstacles. It's not enough just to change the name of the party and to speak differently. You must help all of us together to cure all of the diseases that attacked us during the 1990s, which is why we are today (President: Time). Bring the end, please. Where we are, 15 years after the Srebrenica massacre, we can't go forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37854	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37855	You may have become ill from my actions, but I haven't given you the call of a thief. You've earned that somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37856	Please address the MPs with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37857	Dear Mr. Senic, I didn't tell you that call. You've earned that somewhere in your new environment. So it is a difficult road for us all to go forward, but look how slowly we're going and how that progress is evident. I know we're intruding everyone in this room and you're getting together in local self-government all against us, like you do where and when it suits you. But you can't stop this. This is the wish of Serbian citizens. Look at how you're interpreting politics. You say, "We do what my research tells me about what the people want." What would I do that people don't want to do? What would I be, G 17 plus? I want the party to win as the people wish, to rule as the people will. I have no intention of insulting you or helping you, nor do I need you to help me. The election will define everything. It's your support that there's no choice. This is a unique case that part of the opposition does not want elections. Find a normal democratic country in a world where the opposition doesn't want elections and I'm going to retire and not ask for another two years. That's not the point. This was a trap for the SNS, Castle Boris Tadic and you discovered it today. So, like a dark fairy, if you take it, you'll regret it, if you don't take it, you'll regret it. If you show that you accept this declaration, you put yourself next to us who don't think about our people, but they won't vote for you. If you're with your people, you don't fit in with those who want to join the EU, so the EU doesn't want you. We're all going to take it easy. You told me about the American embassy. You know I made it to that American embassy. I didn't come crawling, I didn't come crawling. You were talking about the EU, and that's where I came from. Tell me about the destination where I won't be able to make it as a representative of the SNS. The only destination I'm not going to get to is the one that some of yours are going to, and these are these KP homes and prisons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37858	Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37859	There's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37860	Thank you. You had the right to a replica you didn't use. Thank you for that. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37861	I want, as an authorised representative of the promoter, to say that these scales in which someone thinks something's going on so that we know who we're dealing with really show the problem of not understanding their own position. We are doing this because of the citizens of Serbia, we are doing this for the future, and that you are not ready to take responsibility, as you have shown in the past that you are not ready to take responsibility, talks about you, and not about us, who are ready to take responsibility. And like the President of the Republic, this parliamentary majority takes steps that are not often popular and sometimes we do what citizens are not sure to support, but we know that it is an interest and we know that sometimes some move is painful and difficult, but we take responsibility because we know that it is in the interest of the future of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37862	Mr. Samardzic, please reapply. Mr. Nikolic wants a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37863	I thank Mrs. Kolundji for remembering what else she might say, since I didn't challenge the replica. Mr. Senic could say I've sent him something, but what if he didn't, so could you, Mrs. Kolundzija. The people would be thrilled if you did something for them. Serbian citizens would certainly be pleased if they did not have to lie on the rail to wait for the train to run over, after you gave their factories to criminals, friends of people sitting in these benches, giving away people sitting in these benches or in front of Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. The people would be really pleased if you felt you were doing something for them. What are you doing for the people? What is this branch of the economy where you did something for the people? What are the international relations in which you have done something for the people? Tell me. I would sincerely like to be able to support you in anything good you do, but you've been raped so much that you're counting on anyone's support. You count to 126, and while there's one wing there, you're criticizing when you're giving me criticism, because when you tell me I'm an ideologist, I'm guilty, that's where Mrs. Grubjesic thinks of those sitting right of you who are now sharing that cake from Telecom's sale. Say it freely and openly, tell those socialists what they were like. What do I have to tell them? There's people out there who'll get smart eventually. So far, you're like a compact continent, persecuting yourself, making deals, and eventually they give in. But you can't put up with this for long. These Serbian citizens can't stand it. This and the SNS won't be able to take much longer. I will appear to conflict with my view of changing power, but when something needs to be done for the citizens of Serbia, I can only trample my position, and you just watch what develops from day to day. Just please, those of you who introduced yourselves as the ideologists of this new order in Serbia, walk down the street, talk to the market, go to the village, talk to the villagers, see what people think. I'm kind to you, I protect you, and I protect you. People would tear you apart. Go from town to town, show me how many factories your privatized factory works. Tell me, since some of you know about agriculture, what's going to be worth to a peasant this year to make a profit? What's the name of this product? Let's all do it. So this is a replica, not a theme. I really have too much nerve, I want to help you. It's not easy to run the country at this time, but you're taking her to the ambis. Sell it, put it in debt, spend it. Sell, spend, be in charge. Do you have another word in your economic logic?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37864	Time. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37865	In addition to violating the Rules of Procedure and not sticking to the subject, you show a sad absence of understanding for the importance of the subject. What you're talking about is a future session and you'll get a chance to talk about it then. If you have no arguments to justify your position in front of those who ask you to vote for this declaration, to prove that it is what you tell them in the embassies, then perhaps you should not speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37866	Mr. Samardzic, you'll have to reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37867	Dear People's MPs, today we are discussing a proposal for a declaration that is unilateral, unfair, false and imposed. In one word, it is a declaration that is shameful for this congregation and for this country. This declaration in many ways, both by procedure and by content, imitates the European Parliament's resolution since January 2009, but the European Parliament did not have to look back on what we have to. The European Parliament could have acted on the wishes of a parliamentary group. The initiator of this resolution in the European Parliament was one small hero of a small dirty war that all started in the former Yugoslavia in June 1991. Now he's written a full circle with that declaration and this one of ours that's gonna be brought in, if he doesn't have the sense, just like this little player imagined. You must not forget a few facts that were present in the European Parliament in January 2009. The motion for a resolution has not been passed through any of the European Parliament's committees. The debate lasted half an hour. Only representatives of the group of this small hero of the dirty little war in Slovenia participated in the debate in 91st year. There was some particular interest that was expressed to the European Parliament, and then it was forced by force by our country and our parliament to bring a declaration here, which will be similar to that resolution somewhere, so to God, by the procedure of adoption. Why was this needed by Serbia and the National Assembly of Serbia? Could the National Assembly of Serbia not have brought one declaration condemning all war crimes from Slovenia until Srebrenica in July 1995? Couldn't it have been done that way? Could the National Assembly not establish a commission to determine the facts of this war and especially the facts of Srebrenica? Why not? She could have done that, too, if it was Srebrenica. Besides, Srebrenica has one broad term. It's not just what happened in July 95, Srebrenica is what's been going on since May 92. Dear MPs, we all seem to have received a memo from the municipal organization of the families of the captured and killed fighters and the missing civilians of Srebrenica. I don't know if you've read that. Who was reading, asking him how he felt when he was reading these facts that were highlighted here? It's Srebrenica, too. But to point out Srebrenica as one place of war crimes, in a civil war that lasted almost four years, from Slovenia to Srebrenica, to point out only the victim of a nation in one place, so Bosniaks in Srebrenica, means in fact the relativisation of crimes in the former Yugoslavia. That's the result, that's the effect. You have to take care of that. It is a lack of this special declaration, which has a special interest and this interest is not located in this country, it has been introduced, it has been given as a warrant for Serbia to bring such a declaration and to sign its own plea for guilt. So it's about that. Why did the congregation not do what she could? Why didn't she set up a survey committee or a commission that would work more permanently on it? Because somewhere we've accepted the coroner's justice and because we've accepted the coroner's truth. You know what the coroner's truth looks like? When the coroner brings you in and says: "We know all things, the truth is known, and you should speak, i.e. You have to admit it. So it's a story with Srebrenica in July of '95. Apparently, all the facts are known, and then, for the last ten years, as more serious research started, it was seen that these facts were not real. We can call today as much as we want to on the decisions of certain international tribunals, but this assembly is not a court, it does not have to follow those decisions because this is a political body, a political representation of citizens. Look at how this bench is going. We are adopting a declaration that is almost identical to the European Parliament's resolution. The European Parliament is calling for the International Court of Justice's verdict on genocide, and the International Court of Justice is calling for the UN tribunal's verdict on General Krstic's guilt about Srebrenica. If you look at that first verdict, the verdict of General Krstic, you will see that something is missing. The verdict itself comes from the assumption that in 15 tombs, which are thought to exist, when the dig is discovered, a sufficient number of victims will be able to justify the number with which it was launched, more than 7,000 victims. After 2001, he was still digging, but no evidence was found. The verdict remains. The verdict was prescribed by the International Court of Justice in Bosnia's case against Serbia. The verdict was rewritten by the European Parliament and we are now copying it from the European Parliament. Like that: pull, pull, rip. So that's something that needs to be put on the subject of questioning and we as a parliament can, as a commission, be able to as some institution that will look for facts of civil war from 1991 to 1995. Why do we act so that we must accept something that is truly the result of some political opportunities and political relations of power and power at that time? At that time, the courts had to accept those quasics, and since then and from there everything was in motion. So, we don't have to go to the coroner's truth, we can look for our truth, and that's why we should either bring in a truthful declaration or set up a commission or a committee of inquiry, or we should seriously form an institution that will deal with it as a state. It was our task, not to manipulate things like the European Parliament did. Serbia does not seem to be able to look for facts and the truth of its near past and the close past of the great state in which we lived. Serbia is today able to receive and accept the ultimatums as anyone brings them. Serbia today is exposed to such ultimatums, although subject to such ultimatums, Serbia has one way without alternative and Serbia has lowered the price of self-respect to the lowest possible extent. So Serbia can be asked to give up works of its territory, it can be asked to recognise borders of the illegally declared state of Kosovo, Serbia may be asked to influence Republika Srpska's leadership over constitutional changes, to bring a declaration that does not correspond to interests, which at last does not correspond to facts and truth, that is the most important. It's not important politics, it's important that we determine what happened and that, indeed, as a people who are truthful and who want to open pages of history, we bring in one declaration that will be in agreement with these facts. Serbia is a very exposed state and a very susceptible state and its leadership doesn't really know what it's doing. We can do whatever anyone wants in this run-of-the-mill situation, if we have to bring in a declaration like this. That's quite clear. Today, when it is decided whether a Stabilisation and Association Agreement will be ratified in Brussels, when it is decided whether to give the green light to the commission that is due to adopt that famous questionnaire, Serbia can today also be exposed to various other accounts. In these debt accounts there are also large countries that participated in the war in BiH. That's quite clear. They're actually running the game. If you look at this Uprephore that's been working there since 92, which was supposed to provide so-called. The protected zone and the demilitarization, and if you look at that Dutch battalion, which was supposed to do its job there, you'll see that it wasn't done properly. According to their commanders, who you can read wherever you want today, which you can read in that report from the Dutch Institute, a Muslim army of over 5,000 armed men was formed in Srebrenica at the time of this demilitarisation and the status of the protected zone. Where did that weapon come from? Who brought it? Who put the blindfold over his eyes so he wouldn't notice him? See, that's why you're looking for the truth. During that time, about three and a half thousand Serbs were killed in the area, so from May 92 to spring of 95. After that, a number of Muslims were killed – 2,000, according to forensics, perhaps more. Someone said 8,000 and we're all running for it. I don't bid on numbers. Someone who said 8,000, he started bidding. Why would we fall on our knees in front of that fictional figure? Why aren't we investigating this? Why don't we take a look? Are we going to search for the truth in front of the coroners? It's really amazing and impossible. So, gentlemen, here are the accounts of the great forces and the great countries, including some of the smaller ones who blame what happened, and today the account is being found in Serbia, not only Serbia but also Republika Srpska. If you want, the last weeks and months are actually about that. Republika Srpska does not stand well in the appetites and plans of the great Western forces. Bosnia and Herzegovina is ahead of constitutional changes, it is known to everyone. Our leadership of Serbia, led by the President of the Republic, had to say last fall, when the Constitution was to change, only the following -- we will agree with any agreement that the representatives of the three nations come to. Right? Excuse me, please, there's been an agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the fall of 95. It's a three-nation agreement. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was first created by one agreement of two peoples. It was also made with one agreement by a people of Republika Srpska. They were introduced into that empty shell of internationally recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina 95 in Dayton, and that should not be questioned. That's the deal. Why make up some new agreements now? But what's the problem? The problem is that this creature from Washington in 94 is a stillborn child and that it does not work. It is necessary to transfer everything to the sacrifice of Republika Srpska, declare it a genocide, bring a series of declarations, and then force Serbia to do so. That's what we do today. Therefore, we must take care of the consequences of these acts. Gentlemen, we are therefore discussing a declaration in 2010, a good five or six years since what has happened in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, finally and in Srebrenica itself, is being explored throughout the world. We have a lot of reports today from which we can bring some sort of judgment. What I'm saying is, I'm not saying it's the last word. I'm saying this from the literature that I had a chance to read. So, from the broader literature. I'm just saying we're doing the wrong job here. We actually testify here about the correctness of the coronerial procedure and we should actually say – well, okay, I admit, I'm in such a situation, I'm forced to admit the so-called truth. Do we have to do this? In my firm conviction, we don't have to. There's room for one nation and one state to fight for the truth. There's such a space, we've had it and we can have it if we want it. At the end of the line, what's going on today is something that's going on and it doesn't have to mean it's going to end the way you imagine it is. In the end, I'd say a few more sentences to conclude this exhibit of mine. So, with everything I've said in mind, this declaration is a really embarrassing declaration. The leadership of the Serbian state has led this country to one final limit of self-respect. Together with him, he wants to put the entire Serbian people into the abyss of national devastation as well. We can't let that happen today. It's the last time to talk about this, even though the reason for this conversation is really forced and artificial, but every opportunity should be taken. At the very least, we really can't accept this. It is necessary to say one thing clearly not to wrong and to lie, one not to lie. You have to say no to this declaration in the end. This congregation should not accept it, and that would be the only way for us as a state to continue to deal with these extremely important issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37868	Mrs. Hope Kolundji. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37869	Madam President, Professor Samardzic has injured Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure - dignity of the Assembly. I'm amazed. There is no other word than what I can use to describe what he said as a representative of a parliamentary group in a debate like this. So many brutal lies, Professor Samardzic, I don't remember hearing about my ten years of parliamentary experience. That you, as a professor of Belgrade University, allow yourself such a hypocritical and false counterfeiting of the European Parliament's resolution. In the first sentence of the European Parliament resolution, it is said -- all victims of violence are respected during wars at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, condolences and solidarity with the victims' families, many of whom have not yet received final confirmation of the fate of their relatives. It is acknowledged that this continuing pain is growing because of the failure to take responsibility for what has been done to bring them to justice. How are you not ashamed to say such sentences?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37870	Please don't speak to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37871	We have asked you today at consultations to allow for the basic respect of dignity here in the Assembly. We can differ and differ terribly, but I have three sentences of Tomislav Nikolic, the first three who have spoken, enough compensation for all other disagreements. But a lie like this in the debate, it's a scandal. Our people are also unhappy because they are poisoned by lies. What we're talking about here today is national filth. And it's an honor to kill 8,000 men tied up so you can dig them up with bulldozers? What does that have to do with the Serbian people? Who are we defending here today in such a way? We can present political views in the debate, but we cannot agree to a debate in which absolutely everything is allowed and in which there is no criterion. This parliament obliges the country's constitution, and it is not respected by such discussions. What big-force conspiracy? Well, the world can do without Serbia. Who asked Serbia to bring a declaration like this? It's our personal need. It's the only way we can tell the difference between us and murderers and criminals, those who were the last holes in playing this kind of policy ten years ago, so today we're in the living mud of ten years ago. Don't tolerate it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37872	Time. Mr. Free Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37873	As things stand, we will be forbidden to think and speak freely here. That's exactly the best proof of my speech. I was talking about this investigative truth that we're facing right now. Now some MPs are trying to shut our mouths. They can't argue with arguments and facts, they can debate threats and insults. So lie and hypocrisy -- that's what was said. I've brought a few facts. You know, if someone says there were 8,000 people tied up, then he doesn't know anything about Srebrenica. It's clear exactly what number of dug corpses were tied up. That number exists. I won't tell you, Mr. Jovanovic, because you need to read some of that literature. You're starting from the prejudices and the finished truth that someone wrote, he yelled that number, and now we have to drop down on it, to be free people, to forget to think, to forget to talk, to accuse ourselves. Of course, that European Parliament resolution begins with sentences, but I did not say that it does not begin with that sentence. I only reacted to what was similar to ours. So it's about genocide over one nation and genocide in one place, based on the International Court of Justice's ruling. That's what I was talking about. As long as I could in 15 minutes, I put out some evidence. It's impossible to talk about in 15 minutes. That's why I've advocated what we have the right to be free people in a free country. No one can forbid that. Whoever fills their ears and mouths can't forbid it. Serbia is on a pillar of shame. On the pillar of shame there will be even more after this declaration, and most of all because of some who dogmatically and dogmatically have no elementary conditions to account for the truth, cannot face the truth, fear the truth because they live and work, receive money, function and so on. There's a lot of people like that in this country. It is an interesting group, one co-ordinate in this country that does not allow public opinion on the whole war, the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Srebrenica. This congregation is an opportunity to open the issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37874	Mr. Jovanovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37875	Professor Samardzic is just a tragic consequence of one policy, which we are partly responsible for because we allowed her to come to power, the politics of Vojislav Kostunica, who defended the interests of the Serb people in the same way that his epigon, Professor Samardzic, is doing here today, never asking the question of results and responsibilities that arises. Mr. Samardzic, it's our human need to tell the truth. The truth exists and it is well known to you. And the truth can't be filled with those empty phrases, which you insist on so much. Why are you panicking? Because for ten years you've been in power and still failed to master that truth. Ten years ago, you created a Commission for Truth and Reconciliation, whose only role was to further poison the Serbian people, to share and argue with the world, because only such people could you rule. I'm not going to bring this debate down to the level that she would have to be in order to give you an adequate answer to everything you've left behind. Last week we discussed here the revision of the 2008 budget, and we were able to face facts that describe your patriotism luxuriously, but I am glad that this people are healthier than your policy and yet managed to put things in place and you in the last rows of this Parliament. I remind you once again, I am ashamed of the lies you have spoken. I am ashamed of the fact that you condemned this people to life in isolation because you were unable to bear the truth. The packages your mythic heroes are talking about, Mladić, Krstic, Beara, are people who are bound to be killed, so much killed that their murderers are sick, so they asked for a break. You count Srebrenica, so tell me how many people are there. Those bones are still wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37876	Mr. Velimir Ilic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37877	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, I am very sorry that in this House I can hear such violations of the Rules of Procedure (which you, as Parliament President, tolerate) that someone is prohibiting MPs, the heads of Parliament, the authorised persons, the parliamentary groups to represent their policies, what they are fighting for, what people who are publicly speaking in this House appear here -- we are guilty of bringing someone into power. I don't know who they are that brings to power. This is where the people choose. The people choose and establish power. People can make mistakes. And he was wrong. Last time he made a mistake. But the people will make their mistake right. And before that, he made a mistake, so some people have been removed, so here you are going to need security to get through the people, etc. Therefore, it is very offensive when we cannot express our opinion, our position, the opinion of our constituents, our citizens, our people's opinions, but we must humble ourselves, put our heads in the sand, and listen to everything we are told and act crazy. To work in the interest of who? Who works here in the interest of the people, the citizens feel it well. My lords, you've applauded so much here today. There's no applause here. This is a tough day for Serbia, when you admit something, and it's not right for your victims, who have fallen all over Serbia... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37878	Time. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37879	I was really expecting it, and I was hoping that this debate today would take care not to hurt the living or the dead or ours or, as anyone else likes to say, the others. I believed that today we would talk here about the need for each victim to be even and that every crime would be prosecuted. I don't think it's appropriate to bid on the number of victims by reducing it by at least one. And that one single number insults all victims. Maybe that's how someone reduces the number of our victims by one and insults every victim. There's really a question here which number is scary enough. We didn't mention the numbers in this declaration. We didn't deal with the number of victims. We didn't want to compromise with the victims and the number of victims. What number is scary enough? If it's not 8,000, as you say, is 4,000 scary enough, or 3,000? Imagine just a minute of silence, we pay tribute to every one of those victims. Count how many days we'd have to keep quiet. (Free Samardzic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37880	Mr Samardzic, there is no basis for replication You asked for a replica, but I didn't think it had a basis. [[Free Samardzic, from the post: I asked for a replica right after Cedomir Jovanovic's speech.]] Please, you've made yourself clear. The word is by MP Milos Aligrudic, who advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37881	An injury to Article 104, which was committed by Mr Jovanovic. Since that couldn't be further clarified, I need to clarify what this is all about. Mr. Jovanovic has gone into a senseless controversy with Professor Samardzic, grasping something that has nothing to do with facts. This is about personal impressions. The way the number bid started here, which Mrs. Kolundji completely misunderstood, because this was not at all a reflex on a declaration that was in front of us, but a speech from one of the predecessors sitting on my left. This bid did not start from Professor Samardzic, but came from Cedomir Jovanovic, who takes for granted certain facts and places them on us, which would also be done in a logical sense like this, because only in this plastic way to Mr Jovanovic, or to all of you, can I explain. That seems to be the only way he understands, although I have never resorted to it in this assembly, at least not to Mr Cedomir Jovanovic himself. It would be the same thing as adding that two and two are four, one simple elementary logic. You have a jeep, you have an apartment, you have a rich kitchen, you have a newspaper, all this to check, you have money and property for which you never explained where you came from, and I can, collecting two and two, to come to a very simple conclusion... (President: Please, you cannot address any MP like this. )......................................................................................................... that you are the electric rabbit of these on the right for the adoption of the declaration, which should show that there is something worse than what they will make. And the money you got, I guess, through two and two is four, probably from those of whom they got a warrant to do this today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37882	Mr Ivan Andric or Cedomir Jovanovic. Identify yourself who will speak. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37883	I realized that, to the greatest extent, Ambassador Aligrudic praised me. I don't know what's wrong with all that. As for the way I got what you're describing, part of it's true. I think I gave your frustrated policy adequate answers on the polygraph, too. It would be good if we returned this debate on the subject, and it's so compromising for your party, that you can only use such nonsense to drag us all into the den we've been trying to get out of after 15 years. I'm sorry, Mr. Aligruditch, but we're not the same. I respect the order and the world I live in. There are institutions in this world. I've never negotiated with Ratko Mladic, he's not a hero to me. The Hague tribunal is for me an institution that reminds me of all the disunity of the society I belong to and the obligation to bring him into order. On Trebevic, I did not sit behind a cannon, and in Kosovo with a rifle, so that I would leave all of this behind, forgetting the responsibility that follows. I remind you once again that you were a party that has led this country for eight years and that you have done so little, given your commitment to the country you have led. Here, first of all, I mean the obligation to tell the truth. The fact that you flee from it today compromises you to the same extent as those who have made that truth terrible. For me, there is no difference between those who created Srebrenica and those who defend the false image of it today. It even seems to me that you are worse than those who in 1995 actually didn't know what they were doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37884	Mr. Slobodan Samardzic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37885	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Madam Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. You did not allow me to speak after my colleague, Cedomir Jovanovic, said my name at least seven times in his speech. It's not a question of replica, it's a question of MPs' rights to the word when someone calls him seven times a minute and a half. If you haven't heard that, then you have hurt the dignity of this congregation. I wasn't talking about Cedomir Jovanovic, nor would it ever occur to me. I was talking about the subject of this declaration and the subject of this debate of ours, and he came at me and my personality, mentioning me at least 15 times in two presentations. Namely, it's all due to knowledge and ignorance, better to say ignorance. So today you can read in many books, in many texts, in many statements what I was saying, and only in a series of texts can you read what he was saying. Here, in fact, we're fighting for whether we can speak or not, whether we're going to let someone deprive us of our freedom of speech or not. When it comes to the truth and reconciliation committee, it is precisely proof of what I was talking about. The commission was founded in 2001 in a very colorful composition when it comes to people who made it up. Immediately, people who wanted to talk about the already postulated truth came out of it, who experienced the commission only as a way for Serbia to catharticly get out of the truth and nothing more. (President: Time. Please bring the end. ) She broke up with work in January 2003...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37886	The word is Mr. Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37887	Thank you, Madam President. When you said to choose who would speak, Cedomir or me, I thought you decided to stop this debate. But since there was still talk after that, I have to say what I meant to say earlier. As for jeeps and these things, I must remind the National Assembly that the party sitting next to us in parliament had been in power and had had all the ministries of force for five years and had never found any evidence, even though it worked hard to find it, or any insinuation about that lie they've been repeating through their mafia media since 2002 -- about some jeeps, about Schiller, about everything. As to whether or not someone has the right to speak, the victim is declared to be one of those during whose reigns the LDP premises are burned twice a week. We've destroyed 80 rooms in Serbia, and no perpetrator has been found. These are the "patriots" during whose time the "C market" was privatised, for whose time Luke Belgrade was privatised, whose time Saricici came and got citizenship, while they "expanded patriotism" and anyone who had different thoughts burned or allowed him to be seized without any punishment and persecuted as a beast. Now they feel offended because someone calls their obvious lie what it actually is. Yes, all victims are condemned in the Declaration of the European Parliament. And ours. Yes, it's sympathising to our families as well. It is not a resolution against Serbia, although it is a lie that you wish to present it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37888	Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37889	This is a replica, of course, if you'll allow me. I don't have jeeps, expensive flats, and I'm not being followed by security. I am the head of the parliamentary group of a parliamentary political party that was in power when it was, we are now in opposition. As far as some of these obscenity extravagant things are concerned, you can't find anything for me. When you hear something like that and talk in public about one of us sitting in these benches, about someone who runs a political party, he used to be part of the ruling majority, I didn't say that what I heard was the argument that I made here was a valid argument. That you listened carefully to what I was saying, no matter how hard I talked about it, or take a stenogram, you will see that I wanted to compare that your two and two, which are four in your argument for everything you said in communication with Mr Samardzic, are as valuable as this argument I made for Mr Jovanovic. I don't see what you're into right now. So if you'd listened carefully to what I've told you, you wouldn't have reacted like this. You don't need to defend yourself. As far as I'm concerned, when it comes to what Mr. Jovanovic said, I don't think that some generals who are war heroes are listed here, nor did I negotiate with anyone, nor did I in any way explain here and bid, nor did Mr. Samardzic do, with numbers. Something else is said, but when someone doesn't have a calm conscience, obviously, it's very easy to get caught up in half the sentence he's heard, he interprets it as he wants, so he goes on. I have only said one thing to you and I stand still behind it – that seems to me, it is my political belief based on what I can see in this House, that you are an electric rabbit, that is a clear notion, for those who are obviously pressed to bring one declaration against the interests of Serbia, Republika Srpska and our citizens. As you rhetorically defend it and as much as you want to be convincing, it's your thing and I can't interfere with it, but this is what it seems to me, and when the debate goes on like this, it has that function, nothing else. That's what you're trying to do all the time and someone has to have the right to raise his voice in this House and expose you. Not you, but them, we have no problem with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37890	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37891	Madam President, I will answer to Mr. Aligrudic for the people who are following all this. We have the right to differ, we even have the absolute right to disagree on this point of the agenda, but I don't think we have the right to be so cruel to our people. Serbia has waited 15 years for this debate, and I don't think something like that should be pushed aside and marginalized in the way the DSS did. We have made clear arguments, calling for the institution's views, and we have made it clear that none of these institutions have formulated their views by accusing the Serbian state or the Serbian people. In The Hague, 19 individuals were charged with genocide. No institutions of the Republic of Serbia, not the Serbian people, not the Serbian state. The International Court of Justice has found, and we want to put it in this resolution, that Serbia is not responsible for genocide. She is responsible for failing to respect previous decisions by the 1993 court, which imposed a much more careful attitude towards the war in Bosnia and for failing to arrest those who committed the genocide. It is the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia. It is our duty to tell this people the truth after 15 years. It's our duty, not to throw dust in his eyes again. Everyone has the right to defend their policies in this House, but I don't think we can remain silent against a policy that assumes ourselves to the interests of the entire people, who, for who knows what times today, has been deceived by what the DSS was doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37892	I'd really like to ask you, I think you've made yourself clear. Mr. Aligrudic, today we have one more than a serious topic... [[Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Minute, Replica.]] The replica? And that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37893	If what you say is true, Mr Jovanovic, and if you defend this thesis that the European Parliament's intentions were most fair through their declaration to condemn crimes, etc., and if you draw that conclusion from a sentence at the beginning, ignoring the tone, i.e. The intonation of the entire declaration, the whole direction of movement, the whole current where it leads and what effect it has in the end, which is again a matter of controversy, then I don't see, if you're honest with me (let's believe for a moment that it is), which is why you would mind supporting this morning the proposal to supplement the agenda, which DSS-New Serbia has done, our proposal for a declaration of condemnation of all crimes in the war in the former Yugoslavia that contains all the same - an explicit condemnation of crime in Srebrenica, an explicit condemnation of other crimes that occurred in the former Yugoslavia. I don't see what the problem is then. I don't see what the problem is that you object today in your speech to the ruling majority who didn't go to the end, arguing that one sentence that speaks of the International Court of Justice, starting with that assumption, which is mentioned in their declaration, bothers because the word that should go into the target didn't go to the end, and that is genocide, when mentioning the very verdict of the International Court of Justice in that same declaration means exactly that, calling on the content of that verdict, which actually means genocide. I don't see what your problem is then. I don't see what your problem is right now. Who do you scold, who do you scold, what do you disagree with? What policy is that of the DSS that leads to anything? With your political party at the time in 2000, the DSS policy has made a change in the state. The fact that some of you didn't think that change should take place in a way that recognizes the right, order, respect for the system, but you thought that you could read the legal concepts of how you like it, that you're attacking companies, that you're exorcising people without any legal basis, that your close coalition partners have proposed hangings on the terraces, etc., that's another problem. That you thought you could throw out 46 MPs in parliament without any consequences, considering it a great gesture, and ultimately justifying it by being such a law. Dura lex, sed lex - say Latini. The law is strict, that's what it is, so let's do it for me. It's about what's laughing and what's not allowed in a political and moral sense. And in the end, I'm right here, too, but this isn't the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37894	Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a declaration on the agenda today, to paraphrasise an American author, is another investment in the Serbian collective guilt bank. It is a shame for the ruling coalition to reject the SRS's proposal to include in the agenda the draft declaration of condemnation of genocide against the Armenian people carried out by Ottoman Turkey, and it is particularly a shame that the government refused to include in the assembly procedure a declaration of condemnation of genocide against the Serb, Jewish and Roma people that took place in the so-called ". The independent state of Croatia, when at least half a million Serbs were killed in the period 1941-1945, according to research by Simon Wizental and according to the Museum of Genocide "Jad Yours", was killed. In my presentation, I will call, above all, on Western sources so that no one can object to the SRS that we are allegedly a criminal, fascist, anti-European, anti-civilisation political party in Serbia. Something about the very normative text of this declaration. First, all those who say they will not vote for the proposed declaration because it does not mention the word genocide, do not have to fear. The genocide is mentioned in two places. It is mentioned in the preamble, when the motions for declarations honour the International Court of Justice's verdict, brought to the dispute over the BiH-Montenegro lawsuit on 26 February 2007, because it alleged that genocide was committed in Srebrenica, and in this normative part of the declaration, when it is said -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strongly condemns the crime committed against the Bosniak population in Srebrenica in July 1995 by the International Court of Justice ruling. In fact, this means that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia condemns the genocide allegedly committed in Srebrenica in 1995. Since legal debates have been held today on our obligations to the International Court of Justice, since we must respect its decisions, that we must accept that the genocide has been carried out in Srebrenica because this is the case in the judgment of the International Court of Justice, i.e. in certain judgments of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, that is, the Hague tribunal, I am obliged to try to explain to the representatives of the proposer in a scientific way what a genocide is. I will quote the definition of genocide from the textbook "Crime Law: Special Part", whose authors are Professor Dr. Obrad Peric, unfortunately the deceased, and Professor Zoran Stojanovic. On page 18 of this textbook, the following is said: the crime of genocide consists of taking certain actions in order to completely or partially destroy a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. The genocide action is set out in Article 2. The 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide. Otherwise, this convention was ratified by the FNRJ in 1950. Among other things, it is said this way – it is characteristic of this criminal act that a subjective element, the intention of the perpetrator, is required for its existence to be completely or partially destroyed by a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. In other words, there must be evidence of genocide. If there was a genocide in Srebrenica, then there would have to be not only corpses, as those who will vote for this declaration, men and children, or boys, there had to be women's corpses, children's corpses. Here, I ask you, who will vote for this declaration – if genocide has been committed in Srebrenica, how many female corpses have been dug in the territory of the Srebrenica municipality? How many children's corpses were dug in the territory of the Srebrenica municipality? If I want to destroy a national, religious, racial group, then I kill without distinction whether it's men, women, children, old people, sick, powerless, etc. Then there's no difference. Because I intend to destroy that national, religious or racial group, that it no longer exists. Tell us the numbers, prove how many bodies there are women, children, old men. If there are, how many are there? It is a way to prove whether genocide has been committed in Srebrenica or not, and not to call for a verdict, say the Hague Tribunal against General Radislav Krstic, which is obviously politically colored and where it has not been proven that Radislav Krstic ordered anyone to kill, banish, rape, that anyone's house is on fire, but that man was accountable for the principle of objective responsibility, which all criminals reject. The only one who doesn't reject it is The Hague tribunal. What is unacceptable for the SRS in this declaration, too, I hope that no one will personally be offended by what I'm about to say, but that's the historical truth. This is the formulation – the Bosniak population in Srebrenica. This formulation is problematic for two reasons. First, that term that someone Bosniak was artificially created. The word “Bosnjak ” encourages...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37896	People's MP, I ask you to use caution and respect to qualify terms relating to national, ethnic or religious groups. Please don't throw it away. It is forbidden, of course, and the provisions of our Rules of Procedure... Another time, please don't throw it away. ) It is forbidden to demean or put into the context of ethnic, religious membership of anyone. Please try your argument to perform without negation of a term that a national community, or ethnic group, calls itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37897	I hope, Mrs. Komic, that you will allow me to speak for as long as it was your intervention. The SRS, Mrs. Comic, does not challenge anyone to plead as he wills, but I am obliged to present some facts based on historical facts. So the term "Bosnjak" was first used by the Austrian consul in Sarajevo, Benjamin Kalaj, to try to destroy Serbia's national consciousness in BiH. It was in the second half of the 19th century, when all BiH residents wanted to impose some artificial national consciousness, that they no longer plead as Serbs, but as members of a new, by the Austrian imaginary people, the Bosniak people. The word Bosniak comes from the word Bosnia, there is no other word. By that logic anyone who lives in Bosnia, whether he is Orthodox, whether he is Roman Catholic, whether he is Muslim, whether he is Jewish, must by definition be Bosniak. The term gained the right of citizens during the 1990s. It was introduced by Ali Izetbegovic, a fundamentalist regime in Sarajevo. I do not in any way dispute the right of any Serbian citizen to say to himself that he is Bosniak, but these are historical facts and I had to say this for the sake of historical truth. What else is a problem here? If you say "the Bosniak population," that means you mean the entire Muslim population. It means the population - men, women, children, old people. These are people regardless of years of life, regardless of gender, regardless of social status. I told you, I call you, in that wave of yours with the number of killed - seven, eight, ten, fifteen, who knows how many thousands - state the name and name of a woman or one child who, according to you, was killed in so-called. The genocide carried out by the Republika Srpska Army in Srebrenica. That's not gonna work for you. Furthermore, you say you express your condolences and apologies to the victims' families for not doing everything to prevent this tragedy. So you think that the state of Serbia could have, that it wanted to prevent this tragedy, but it didn't stop it, so now in 2010, we apologize for not stopping it. If the genocide was actually committed in Srebrenica, if the most serious crime on the globe was committed, who could have prevented this crime? Power. Who was in power then? Your coalition partners. Why don't you, as a government in Serbia, apologize to those over whom the genocide has been committed? Why are you transferring this burden to all of us? Your coalition partner, the SPS, was in power at the time. What do we from the SRS have to do with it? Our president was in prison in Gjilan on those July days, as I recall. In no way could it affect anything that was going on in BiH. But no, you would like to deceive all citizens of Serbia now, to say that this SPS has nothing to do with the 1990 SPS, as some would now like to imagine that they had nothing to do with the SRS. Up until two years ago, the National Assembly was a safe house for Ratko Mladic, today agreeing to co-operate with the International Criminal Tribunal. It's some virtual political reality that we live in. Now something about the context of what's happening in Srebrenica, Mrs. Kolundjia. In the spring of 1992, Muslim formations from the vicinity of Srebrenica, Gorazda, Vlasenica began to commit mass crimes against the Serb people living in the territory of eastern Bosnia. A particularly serious crime was committed in January 1993, when the entire Serbian village of Kravica was slaughtered on Christmas. A few days later, the same fate happened to Skelane. Kravica is in the municipality of Bratunac, they are in the municipality of Srebrenica. In April 1993, the UN Security Council declared protected zones of the municipality of Srebrenica, Zepa, Gorazda and Bihac. Two days after the declaration of the Srebrenica municipality protected by the zone, General Ratko Mladic, mentioned in this declaration, agrees that the Muslim army in Srebrenica lay down weapons not to the Republika Srpska army, but to the UN forces. On May 8, 1993, in the presence of French General Filip Morion, Commander Uprenofort in BiH, an agreement was signed at Sarajevo's airport on the complete demilitarisation of the Srebrenica municipality between General Ratko Mladic and then BiH Army Commander General Sefer Halilovic. Now, Mrs. Kolundzija, listen to what Sefer Halilovic tells the criminal Naser Oric: "Naser, hand over only old and corrupt weapons to the United Nations. You can't hand over a single piece of proper weaponry, say you don't have another one. Get out of town. We continue according to our plan, for free BiH." After May 1993, Muslims did not demilitarize, not to throw their weapons into thorns, but to expand their territory under occupation. It can be very clear how to document. So, after 8 May 1993, Naser Oric, whom The Hague tribunal, Mrs Kolundzija, released the blames for the slaughter of Serbian men, women and children in Podrinj, takes up the following Serb villages: Cicicevic, Gostilj, Mala Dalegosti, Međe, Močevići, Osredak, Obadi, Postolje, Podolje, Podravanje, Pusmulići, Radosevici, Ratkovici, Viogor, Radovčići, Sasa. To prevent the killing of the Serb people in Podrinj, the Republika Srpska Army is on the move in the summer of 1995 with the action "Criwaj 95". According to UN commanders on the ground, it was not the goal of taking Srebrenica, but of liberating the Serbian villages of occupation of Naser Oric. That's the conclusion that the Dutch Royal Institute of War Documentation gave. The same opinion was expressed by Jean Rene Ruez, chief UN tribunal investigator for Srebrenica. In an interview for the Sarajevo weekly "Days", on the question of journalists -- do you have elements that would confirm previous plans for these massacres, he replied -- no, there were no previous plans, no enclave capture was planned at all. The plan in this offensive comes from July 5th. The original plan was to reduce the enclave to the town of Srebrenica itself and turn it into a large refugee camp under the open sky, so that the UN could start evacuating the zone. The journalist is still asking - that statement is based on the documents you own? Ruez says yes, completely. What happened before that? Bill Clinton told Ali Izetbegovic -- if you want NATO to intervene in BiH, something must happen in BiH that would give us motive, which would give us reason to intervene. On March 1st 1995, the command of the BiH Army ordered Naser Oric to leave Srebrenica and come to Tuzlo, allegedly to receive instructions. At the time of Srebrenica's conquest, Naser Oric was not in Srebrenica, and the Muslim army almost gave no resistance at all, but under Ali Izetbegovic's command began a breakthrough towards Tuzla. They're historical facts. How many were killed in that breach? Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm going to re-apply to one of the western springs. According to Dean Manning's expertise, 1,883 bodies, no eight thousand, were exhumed in the territory of the Srebrenica municipality. The largest number of people died in a breach towards Tuzla. One more piece of information. On the official NATO site, you can all check, on July 11th 1995, around 1440 hours, NATO aviation intervened in the Srebrenica area. Can you tell that no Muslim has died from NATO bombs? What kind of fraud happens next? Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm going to tell you something about the abuse of the dead in Srebrenica. A man died in 1982. Do you know where he was buried? In the mesar in Potocari. His name is Hamed Halilovic, deceased in 1982. At a cemetery in Potocari, reportedly the victim of Ratko Mladic and the Republika Srpska Army, Osman Halilovic died in 1989. Nuria Memisevic, deceased in 1993. Buried: Salil Halic, deceased in 1992, Mujo Hadzic, deceased in 1993, Ferid Mustafic, deceased in 1993 and Hajrudin Cvrk, died in 1992. All of them, according to you, are victims of Ratko Mladic and the Republika Srpska Army. Here are the names of the people who lost their lives before 11 November 1993, and their names, as the rites of the victims of Ratko Mladic genocide, are carved on that memorial complex in Potocari: Cerimović Mujo, Hasanovic Hamed, Malic Ramiz, Omerović Hamed, Omerović Adam, Hasim Selimović, Ramiz Alic, Jusuf Osmanovic, Ramiz Alic, Munib Alić, Jusuf Omerović, Meso Osmanovic, Sead Salkic, Safet Korkutović and Aziz Omerovic. Here you are, Mrs Kolundžija, the names of Muslims who passed away before 7 March 1994, which you consider the victims of Ratko Mladic: Mujic Ibro, Mehmed Hodzic, Hailula Hafizović, Ismet Huseinović, Mujo Ahmetović, Mežada Hodžić, Saćir Malić, Kadrija Osmanovic, Mehmed Avdić, Nejad Osmanovic, Enver Ibrahimović, Izet Salkić, Djad Suljić, Hasan Beganović, Rego Suljić, Omer Smajlović and many others. Do you really think that because of the washing of the conscience of the criminal American administration, because of the washing of NATO's conscience, some circles within the EU need to be accepted as a historical fact that the Serbian people, that the Republika Srpska Army, that Serbia, that Ratko Mladic is responsible for these mythical eight thousand killed Muslims? Some of your murdered Muslims, Mrs. Kolundzija, are alive and healthy in Sarajevo today, Tuzla, vote in BiH territory, some live in Switzerland, etc. Muslims who died on various battlefields in BiH, Bosnia Krajina, Herzegovina, in Savina after 1995, their corpses were brought to Potocara, cameras of the world's media were brought and then told and resisted by the finger - here are the victims of Ratko Mladic and the Republika Srpska Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37898	Twenty minutes. The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37899	I really don't think there's any need to speak to me personally. I am here only the authorized representative of a group of MPs who have submitted this text to the declaration and there is no need for anyone to call me personally, pointing a finger at me or at me. If we're talking about you being bothered by the Bosniak population, I can tell from that that's how you're bothered by the word "citizens," that you don't mind being Bosniaks. You claim there was no child. At the same time, war crimes prosecutor Vukcevic speaks of many victims, including the student of the generation of Suad, son of Šuhre Malic, who was also killed in Srebrenica. Speaking of washing our consciences, what we want to do with this declaration is remove responsibility from the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people, but we will certainly not follow the conscience of those who have committed such crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37900	The right to replica has Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37901	Mrs. Kolundjia, it's relatively a question of who the child is. For my parents, I'm a child today, and I'm 34 years old. He who is capable of carrying weapons, who is capable of committing such horrors as were committed by members of Muslim formations under the command of Naser Oric, is not a child. I asked you most kindly to tell me if any female bodies were found, any body of a child unable to carry a weapon. No, and I'm responsible for that. Republika Srpska's and Ratko Mladic's armies have ensured that Muslim women, children, old people, wounded and sick buses are transported to Zepa and Tuzla. If someone had intended to destroy these people, that this ethnic religious group no longer existed, do you think he would have provided them with buses? One more question, Mrs. Kolundjia. What is the role of French intelligence in what was happening in Srebrenica? Have you heard of Yugoslavia Petrusic and the group "Pauk"? Do you know who's the only one convicted of directly allegedly killing Muslims in Srebrenica? Not a Serb. Croatian Drazen Erdemovic. Is everything clear here for you? There's nothing controversial about it? What did the man do? He made a deal. Imagine the monstrosity of the UN tribunal. You say I did, I killed 10, 50, 100, 200, 500 people, but I made a deal with the D.A. and I got five years in prison. Mrs. Kolundjia, do you have any consciences? If someone killed 300 people with their own hand, is a fair sentence five years in prison? It is according to the UN tribunal's standards, because you can guess there. It is not a court of justice, it is a world flea market that serves to place the burden and guilt of the former Yugoslavia on the backs of only one people, on the back of the Serbian people and that no one else is responsible for the crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, or Ali Izetbegovic, or Franjo Tudjman, or Milan Kucan, or the United States, or the European Community or NATO. Who's to blame? It's the Serbs. How do we prove that? Well, look at the structure of the UN tribunal indictees. Is there any Serb who performed any more significant political, military or police function without being charged, convicted or killed in The Hague tribunal? Find me such a structure on the part of Croats, Muslims or Albanians. That parallel can't be established. You're wrong to say that the UN tribunal judges individuals. If he's being tried by someone who was president of the state, if he's being tried by someone who was chief of staff, if he's being tried by someone who was a minister, he's being tried by the state and tried by the people. Who is being tried by Muslims? The ones who kept the prisons, the regular soldiers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37902	People's MP, the time at your disposal for replica has been used. Thank you. The word is Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37903	No matter what we think of the International Tribunal in The Hague, no matter what we think of its verdicts, we don't do it here. We condemn a crime here, we express regret, we give regret to the victims and their families. We are here building a valuable relationship with life and a valuable attitude towards a policy that must not take human lives in the name of achieving some dark, unknown, supposedly higher national goals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37904	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37905	I'm sorry that you didn't give me your word right after the violation of the Rules of Procedure was done, because I heard from the predecessors something that I couldn't stand up to as a Serb, not as a father, or as a grandfather, and you were supposed to react. I have an unacceptable thesis spoken in the National Assembly, to which no one reacts, that someone is not a child because he can carry a rifle or because he belongs to a people who have committed crimes and atrocities. So, I'm trying not to make this declaration against all of us because some Serb committed a crime, and at the same time I hear in this room that if a Muslim or some Croat committed a crime, his child didn't deserve to be told he was a child. It is not an ideology that should be spread through Serbia, and that ideology must disappear in Serbia. I'm very sorry that you didn't pay attention to that part of the discussion, because he's actually painting the whole story of those who would charge me with something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37906	Aleksandar Martinovic is looking for a right to replication. Please make this the final circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37907	Mrs. Comic, do I have the right to replicate Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia or the Chetnik Duke?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37908	National MP, you have been given the right to reply because you are registered in the electronic system before MP Tomislav Nikolic rightly objected to a part of the exposure heard in this assembly, you know that. So, you have the right to a replica of the motionary, the People's MP Nadia Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37909	As for the exposure of the man for whom Ratko Mladic until two years ago was a Serbian hero, and the National Assembly of the Safe House...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37910	The People's Messenger, the People's Parliament of Hope of Kolundji, has not given a single piece of his views on Ratko Mladic. Please don't throw it away. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic violates the Rules of Procedure and throws it away, as I try to, by applying Article 27, take care of the order in the Assembly. National MP Aleksandra Martinovic, you have been given the right to a replica of the National MP Nadia Kolundzija. The replica means you answer to her. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, I really had no intention of insulting you personally or calling you names, but you have now come to an impossible situation. You say - we are not interested in the UN tribunal's concrete verdicts, and you are calling in a declaration of these values that are allegedly being promoted by the UN tribunal. You'd like to have some abstract discussion about The Hague tribunal, about crimes, but don't accidentally mention any particular name, figures, data, etc. I said at the beginning of my debate, unfortunately 20 minutes is too little to say anything about the subject of Srebrenica. I'll give you a statement from a man from the West again. It is the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights HenriVilan, who told London's Daily Telegraph on July 27th 1995 -- we found no one who saw the crimes with his own eyes. The man interviewed more than 20,000 Muslims from Srebrenica who found themselves in a refugee camp in Tuzla and none of the 20,000 Muslims said – I saw with my eyes soldiers Ratko Mladic killing Muslim civilians or Muslim prisoners in Srebrenica. Mrs. Kolundjia, I understand that you would like to banalize this debate, to make it as simple as possible, to look at Srebrenica with black and white eyes, but I have to remind you of a brilliant sentence by British historian and political philosopher Robert George Collingwood – one fact separated from all other facts is something monstrous, nothing real. You get one event out of his historical context, you just condemn him, and everything that happened before that, during and after that, you don't care. But this is not a historic approach to the problem, it is a daily political approach to the problem, which, unfortunately, if adopted, will burden many and many generations of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37912	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37913	Unlike you looking at the eyes you've seen in the '90s, I don't look with black and white eyes. Unfortunately, I'm looking at sad eyes, because we're talking about lost lives here today, because we're talking about innocent people who have paid for the policy you've been leading with their lives. Unfortunately, we are listening to the same policy today, but fortunately, you will never again be able to pay for that policy with anyone's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37914	National MP Bajram Omeragic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37915	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, we recently heard from a young lawyer, but an intern in a political sense, a candidate for a future party president who is now struggling with censorship all over Serbia because of this policy he is leading, today we thought we were having a debate about where Serbia is going after everything that has been going on and why we are gathered here today to talk a little bit about a tragic fact. We're talking today about the Bosniak people being something Callaisan. (Reclaims in the O.R.: which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) I have also applied for the violation of the Constitution, not the Rules of Procedure. If I were to begin to quote all the conventions that are here, in this discussion, in violation of this man, this discussion would really go a long way. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I don't want to go there. I'm only talking about one fact. The constitution of this country, the UN Declaration of Human Rights, not to quote all other international documents, guarantee the freedom that one of my professors, from my former college, told us today, is that we are free to express our will and even to define ourselves nationalally. I remind you, according to the population list in this country, millions of people do not belong to the majority people. They freely expressed themselves on the list as belonging to another ethnic community or people. Today, we have experienced a serious insult here – that one country's highest legislative body denies belonging to a community.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37916	People's MP, I ask you to state in the last five seconds which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37917	A member of the Rules of Procedure on the violation of this House's dignity has been violated here. I just want to say one more thing. Please don't bring the future into this debate. The denial of a nation is the future, and do not fear with your rhetoric the Bosniak people in Sandzak and all Bosniaks in Serbia, because there is no reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37918	Thank you, two minutes. People's MP, do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because you have no right to reply? I beg you not to throw away and not to communicate with me, as chairman, with rude gestures. ) National MP Bajram Omeragic, you pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure that was observed during the presentation. Afterwards, the MP had completely taken the matter down with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so it is possible that you gave in to my intervention and what MP Aleksandar Martinovic later corrected in the historical argument he mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37919	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. He was injured, unfortunately, by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Omeragic, I really had no intention of having you as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia or members of a national or religious community to whom you belong dispute, in any way, the right to plead as you wish. If you think of yourself as a Bosniak, I respect it, and the SRS respects it, but I am obliged, because of historical truth, to tell you who first invented the term "Bosnjak" - that it was the Austro-Hungarian Consulate in Sarajevo Benjamin Kalaj and that it was in the second half of the 19th century. I am obliged to remind you of the historical fact that in 1971 Ali Izetbegovic declared himself not as Bosniak, but as a Serb Muslim religion. The Muslims really don't bother me. We have in our ranks a National MP of the Muslim religion of Suleiman Spah. If I were to give you any ugly word for being a Muslim, I would insult my friend, my party colleague Suleiman Spah. So you have no problem with the SRS at all when it comes to your right to plead as you wish. However, for daily political reasons, I cannot hide historical facts. Today, many here have spoken of the need for truth. Then let's not hide that truth. You know, I have the impression that the government would only want the truth to be what they're comfortable with, and when something is said that doesn't suit them, then we call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I respect your right to be Bosniak, but respect my right, not only as a Serb, as some intellectual you probably don't take seriously, because, as you say, I am an intern, but who, by circumstances, knows something about the history of both your people and my people. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37920	You don't have the right to a replica, and I'm asking you to... I warned you twice. I can repeat the names which of the MPs of the SRS group has been warned twice not to throw it, not to disturb the order of the Assembly and not to compromise the reputation of this institution. Don't leave me anything but the rules of the Rules of Procedure that mean a lot more to me than you do. You have no right to a replica. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37921	Madam Chairman, I've been listening very carefully to this debate and I intend to talk about all this from another angle, but I'm gonna make a little joke for starters. Recently, right away, I heard that around Srebrenica nothing happened and that Ratko Mladic was not guilty. Then the question comes to me, it makes the situation much easier -- I don't see why Mr. Ratko Mladic wouldn't turn himself in, since he's completely innocent. So that's one way we can talk. But what I wanted to say was something else. We had a debate here today, and I think it's a good thing we had it. For the simple reason that many people have certain values during life and create an emotional crust that makes arguments hard to deal with. I remember an essay written by philosopher Ljubomir Tadic at the end of the 1980s, entitled "Is Nationalism Our Fate". I thought he was exaggerating in that pessimistic conclusion, and I had long believed that we wouldn't slip back into barbarism after World War II, when people, former neighbors, murdered children, etc. for religious, political and any other reason. Of course, humanity is soaked with crimes. Someone here said, and I think he's right, that there's no nation that didn't commit crimes. And everywhere you can find people who are criminals. But mankind wouldn't have progressed at all if it hadn't been for other people, who said the crime was inadmissible, beginning with old cattle, who said that man was a sacred thing –" So it was important to stop killing. We can find a lot of evidence to talk about. One of the most beautiful lyrics, quoted in the titles of some novels, a song by John Don, which says, "When you hear the bells ringing, don't ask who the bells are, you're part of humanity." No matter what we're talking about, I'd say one thing that can work and banally, but it's terrible for us if we don't all remind ourselves that we're like people, brothers. Whether we believe that God created us, so we are descendants of Adam, whether we are of some primate, and in any case we cannot deny that we have a common ancestor. So humanism is the other side of beastism, with which human aggression appears in various forms. She doesn't show up wild. Over time, she was institutionalized. There are different forms of identity. There's, of course, a family identity sometimes, so a little wider, there's a national identity, so there's a religious identity, a racial identity. In the name of that identity, in which a man drowns in that abstraction that there is no such thing as all the crimes that have been recorded so far are committed. The liberal thought says otherwise, that man, and it teaches him and enlightenment, is responsible for his actions, that he has his identity and all modern constitutions say that national sovereignty is only there when a citizen owns him as a citizen, as an individual. He must have that identity and only then gain responsibility. As long as he hides behind the nation, the church, the race, etc., he cowardly hides his identity and actually has an alibi for his crimes. Of course, I was troubled by the question of how we slipped into this barbarism, how this nationalism that it was. There's a lot of learned people here, we've heard a lot of lessons about the origin of a nation, etc. We had in these areas in the 19th century a debate on how to form nations or nations. Vuk Karadzic wanted it done the way it was in Europe, as Helder suggested, based on language, so all people who speak the same language are one people. But then, under the influence of Austro-Hungarian, who wanted to be a representative of the Holy Roman Empire and under Catholic influence, it was said no, but those who speak, which are of the Roman law, are Croats, Catholics, and those who are Greek law are Orthodox, Serbs. The wolf reminded them there was a third faith. She showed up later. There we should be careful that we are very innocent as children, as nations, allowed to be in religious rather than on a language principle forming nations. The Srebrenica people who were killed are our brothers in an even more literal sense. We have the same origin, we speak the same language, we were citizens of the same country. It's not like that, but if anyone hides himself in a national identity, so he starts to feel, whining his nation's superiors, then no one's your brother, but instead you can treat him like rabbits, so they treated them, beating them in the mountains where they ran off. It doesn't make sense here that after 15 years, we've been playing experts and analyzing what happened at Srebrenica. That's what the courts did. Of course we're different. We also differed in 1991 and 2001, and we are different today, because the very armor, the prejudices we are facing, are difficult to get into so easily. However, we must respect some things. It's nice to think about yourself as well as your nation. The problem with our nationalism is that he is mythologically, uncritically, and everything that has been done in Serbia, everything has been magnificent, everything has been great. The great nations speak very critically of themselves and that is what gives them strength and what makes them strong. We have a crime problem here and whether we can, if we have the strength as humans to influence society, to start thinking a little bit that we should live together, that terrible things have been done and that we are looking for ways to overcome it, and that we can normally live with the rest of the world, without the paranoia that everyone hates us, without being the best, the greatest, etc. Of course, there is no doubt that in this war everyone was nationalists in all these conflicts that took place. It's certain that many people don't want to admit their guilt and want it to be someone else's fault. I know, we tried, now I'm talking about the DS in 1991 to prevent a war in Bosnia. We held two conferences in Sarajevo and Ilija, where all representatives of all parliaments were present, all parliamentary groups. We tried and, worst of all, we had even the results, but then the owners of the former Yugoslavia, the powerful presidents didn't want it, they were more powerful and they pushed us into war. I witnessed in The Hague court on the charges BiH has filed against Serbia, or the SR of Yugoslavia, for genocide. At the time, I testified that there is no document of discrimination in the Serbian and Yugoslav parliament that would discuss the intentions of the Serb people or parliament, or the government to commit genocide in BiH. I also talked about what the whole situation looked like, what relationships were and who could be responsible for all this. The verdict of that court is clear to you. She speaks only of the following: that Serbia has not organised, has not committed genocide and is not guilty of genocide. That was one good victory we won. Not everyone was happy with it, not those who sued, not many others. Maybe someone's still trying to relativize that verdict, but that doesn't matter, that's not what we should be dealing with. What's important is then said, and that's whether we've done enough to prevent that massacre, that genocide, as they later qualified it. Obviously, we don't forget the close relationships that were. No one hid that we helped armed forces in BiH or Republika Srpska. What's important to us now, are we going to turn to the future, to live, to work, to school together, to compete with the nations around us, with whom we have slaughtered in several wars, to the wonder of one part of the world why do we keep repeating it, or do we not? There is one strategy or tactics of every nationalism, not just ours, the Serbian, but everyone. It starts by saying no, that's not true. That crime, the enemy made it up for us, it's a complete fake, it wasn't. But when they show up after some evidence and some bodies, then they say, well, but there wasn't so much, there was ten times less. So when they press events again, etc., arguments, then they say well, yes, we killed, but they killed us too. That's the most dangerous point. So crime is something completely normal, no one's ashamed of it, it's one common thing, why make it a problem. We don't need to re-supply in certain divisions now, in a way that exposes guilt, etc. The court said what he said. She'll be a historian who'll investigate it thoroughly and tell us what they have to say. What's ugly and what we don't have to accept, what we don't have to get into, is politicizing this problem. My pledge is to take it completely apart, to see it as one tragedy human, and those killed, and those who did it, and those who could see it, or to find out later, to treat it like human beings. That's the problem, if we want to move forward, we have to move forward as human beings, not just as representatives of certain nations, certain religions, certain states, etc. It's certain that there's a problem with the word genocide here, and that only shows the role of certain symbols. Genocide has one symbolic function. You've seen that the Turks won't admit the genocide that was committed over a million people a hundred years ago, because it's being politicized, and then it's supposed to hit our whole identity, all of us are going to get hit. But that's not the point. No one should fear that we will agree that there was a crime there, that we apologize in that sense as human beings, who are witnesses of that time when crimes were happening, with one purpose – that it never happens again. If we can get the strength to approach the whole problem, all of our current or permanent, however you will, the division, used for our various party purposes, does not correspond to the purpose of this declaration and the whole of today's debate. But generations will come, I assure you, who will be burdened, who will not seek their identity exclusively in an institution and who will try to approach this in a human and normal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37922	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic points out the right to replication. You have no right to a replica. Nothing in presenting MP Dragoljub Micunovic would constitute a basis for replication. Since all the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have used their right to turn in this part of the session, and within the time available to them, 10 minutes now, 10 minutes after the debate ends in principle, I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a single search of the application for a word, in writing, with the order of the MPs, submitted all MPs, except the PUPS, so that representatives participated in the debate on the application of the word... He's right, MP Momo Colakovic. Without any intention, since I am reading the order of parliamentary groups, I apologize to the members of the PUPS parliamentary group, there is no business or any need to read who is not, but who is. My personal apology just because I read the list, there's no intention. So, representatives of the parliamentary group of minorities, representatives of the New Serbia parliamentary group, representatives of the LDP parliamentary group, representatives of the SPS-JS group, representatives of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, representatives of the DSS parliamentary group, representatives of the G 17 Plus group, representatives of the SRS parliamentary group and representatives of the ZES parliamentary group. Another apology to members of the PUPS parliamentary group. The first to be declared by the word, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in a single search, is MP Balint Pastor, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37923	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the great 17th-century thinker John Locke dealt with, in addition to political philosophy, language issues, and he wrote in one place that almost all the problems stem from what words do not always wake up those ideas in the speaker's mind. He said we use the same words for different terms, and one term is marked with more words. So the language is imperfect. The meaning of the concept of genocide can all be found in Article 370. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. It reads: "Who, in order to completely or partially destroy a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such, orders to commit murders or serious injuries to the body, or a serious violation of the physical or mental health of members of the group, or to put the group in such living conditions that lead to full or partial extermination of the group, will be punished" etc. The International Court of Justice's ruling of 26 February 2007 shows that a territorially limited genocide occurred in Srebrenica. The European Parliament resolution of 15 January 2009 also mentions the term genocide. Today in the National Assembly we have on the agenda a proposal for a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica. This text of the proposal can be interpreted in several ways, because it contains one formulation according to which "The National Assembly strongly condemns the crime committed against the Bosniak population in Srebrenica in July 1995, in a manner established by the International Court of Justice verdict". Whoever wants to see in this text, in this proposal, the term "genocide", they will see the term genocide. Whoever wants to see the term "crime" in this proposal will see the term "crime" with full right. We do not agree, as MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, with all the formulations set out in this proposal for a declaration. We would like this text to be more specific, but we have no right not to support this proposal and therefore we will vote in favour of this proposal for a declaration, as we will vote in a few days and for another proposal for a declaration of condemnation against the Serbian people in the 1990s in the civil war in the field of the SFRY. We appreciate the intention and endeavor to close this chapter of the past and to adopt this declaration, which is on the agenda today, we see as a way of facing the past and as a civilization issue. This is not a Hungarian-Serbian issue at all, this is a civilization issue and we will support this proposal. Such texts, such declarations should have been brought against other crimes, to use the term set out in this proposal, "from the past" of this country. As you know, in 1944 and 1945 crimes took place in the territory of the entire state. I would not bid on numbers, but we know that, without any court rulings, a very large number of Hungarian people, the German people, as well as members of the Serb-Croatian and other peoples who were characterized by the regime then as fellow fascist authorities. Only in Churug, Frog and Mošorina were expelled from all Hungarians, most of them ended up in a concentration camp in Bačka Jark, where it was killed, according to data from the books of the dead, 6,429 persons, of which 955 children. In the Hungarian community there is a vivid memory of innocent victims of that time. In almost every village, crimes took place, and we, members of the Hungarian nation, on the Day of the Dead, mark the memory of them, among other things, in Curug, where each year the cross falls, unfortunately. The innocent victims, of course, were both in 1941 and 1942. I'm thinking primarily of a raid in Novi Sad and no one wants to deny the existence of this tragic crime. But the Hungarian side made significant gestures of guilt during World War II. Fifteen main culprits from the ranks of Hungarian military and gendarme forces were sentenced in 1943 to death sentences, and partly to prison sentences, and by Hungarian Prime Minister Miklos Kalai further in 1942, the newly-sadic raid was characterised by war crimes. In 2003, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina adopted a resolution on non-recognition of collective guilt, which advocates a full rehabilitation of all the exiled, innocently accused and innocently injured during and immediately after World War II, without prejudice to individually determined responsibility. The National Council of the Hungarian National Minority brought the Declaration in 2004, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia remain silent. An agreement was reached in 2009 between the president of Serbia and Hungary on the establishment of a mixed commission of historians at the Academy of Sciences, which is scheduled to investigate the 1944 and 1945 events. We expect the commission to start working, and after determining the fact that a resolution is also taken on these tragic developments and that reconciliation between the Serbian and Hungarian people finally takes place, in this sense that there is mutual recognition of guilt and the signing of joint statements on historic reconciliation. That's what we're expecting, and today we're voting for the proposed declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37924	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word is Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37925	It is not necessary for a man to deal with analytical topics, logic or numberology in order to conclude what 80% of Serbian citizens have already understood. The Samafor coalition chooses dates with such symbolic significance that only NATO, which bombed by the red letter, may be able to mate. NATO's aggression against our country began on 24 March 1999. I'm not surprised that the yellow and green light on this political traffic light doesn't turn on the term NATO aggression anymore, and they even avoid using the NATO bombing term. I'm surprised by the red ones, who carried the badges with the targets, and now they're mercifully letting them get their hands on and carry the yellow-green wave. So, for the start of his Beneficent Angel, NATO has chosen the day when the penitent Canon of St. Andrija Kritski is read, when even the ungodly look with respect to church members, who are on their knees, conscious of their passions, bad thoughts and deeds, are ready to repent. If NATO's intention to push Serbia into repentance is excluded, it is obvious that it is an almost blasphemous and demonically cynical enterprise that should have thrown Serbia on its knees. You'll say - that's the past. That's right. The present is that a person as president of Serbia, just on 24 March 2010, is lucky with the Croatian president, promising him the condemnation of all crimes and criminals, except, of course, crimes against Serbs. Is it possible for the European magazine "World of Europe", on the occasion of the world's day of memory of the victims of the Holocaust, to announce that the Ustasha camp Jasenovac in the Nazi, puppet independent state of Croatia was the third largest, probably the most viral, Serb extermination camp in World War II, without being mentioned by the president of the Serbian state? Is it possible, at least, that's how the human plays the muscle on his face when he talks about the person of all crimes without thinking about the columns of tractors driven by children, running away from the heirs of the same genocide anti-Serb policy? If he had at least taken a picture of Milica Rakic or some of the Serb militias that disappeared in the action "Storm", in Bratunc, in Milic, Skelani, in Kosovo and Metohija, if he had at least honored that after the expression of condolences in Srebrenica he would have gone to Bratunac, we might have thought that the date of the meeting of Josip's political successor and Josipovic had been chosen by chance. But here every coincidence is very intentional. And with previous Croatian Mesic president, the person in the role of Serbian president made gaffs. Mesic, a cynical gesture, pardoned the murderer of the 12-year-old Serbian girl from Zagreb, Aleksandra Zec, so that Tadic, in his post as a promotion of his Srebrenica resolution, could say – only by such a policy can we defend the victims of the Zagreb Zec family. The policy of respecting other people's suffering and showing respect to other people's victims will enable us to effectively represent our own. After all the humiliations that we have experienced as a people and as a state in the last 20 years, today in the midst of the devastating week of the same honorable and great fast, when all Orthodox Christians are decently preparing for the resurrection, Serbs are prepared for the final and most terrible humiliation, self-indulgence. It is true that the goal of fasting is, and not only fasting, repentance, which implies consciousness of sins, the intention to correct life and genuine repentance for all that has brought pain, suffering, and even the slightest tears of another God's creation. A Christian sacrifice is the basis of every virtue, especially love, but it certainly needs to be distinguished from a masochistic, instrumentalized sacrifice, which for the sake of achieving hidden political interests on a pillar of shame crucifies everyone who arrives. This position of achieving individual interests of survival in power does not mean simply kneeling before Beyden, Kacin, and all in the expectation of Faith. It also requires much more, and this is to make its own people a executioner. After all, who is he and what are his motives, the interests of his employers, to place on the whole of one nation a mark of responsibility, apostropheing that it was the Serbs who committed such a terrible crime on behalf of him? The issue of adopting a declaration of condemnation in Srebrenica is more than just a game of scrawny politicians who consider morale a transitor category. It is an immoral and inhumane policy that paves the way for Europe through the separation of the dead and the demeaning of innocent Serbian victims. For God's sake, if we as people are different colors of skin, nation, religious, political, social, intellectual, and sexual orientations are the same in just one, in front of one fact, before the fact of death, which is equally infectious to all God's creatures, is there a need to make differences, is it just because our victims of Serbia are less important? Every crime has an perpetrator with a name and a last name, who must be brought to justice, as well as any innocent victim has his own name and last name that must not be forgotten. In order not to repeat themselves, no crime shall be done either to justify or to conceal or to leave unpunished. The perpetrators of war crimes are individuals and as individuals must be responsible for the crimes committed. Crime is a common accident, and individual responsibility. This is in the declaration of condemnation of all war crimes in the area of former Yugoslavia, which was filed by the DSS and New Serbia on February 1st of this year, although the basic text of the declaration dates back to 2005. What has prevented you gentlemen from adopting a single declaration, which would condemn any crime without discrimination, by not making a difference in the scene of the crime based on the religion and nationality of innocent victims. Such a unique declaration would express our unambiguous condemnation of a crime committed in Srebrenica, but also of mass war crimes committed in "Bleak", "Storms", Sarajevo, Tuzli, KIM? Not to mention how the National Assembly of Serbia would have to discover yet-undiscovered mass graves of World War II at the sites of the former Yugoslavia. Only detecting all crimes and facing the overall past can lead us to a final healing that is a prerequisite for any progress. Serbia has a special life and historical interest in lighting and condemning all war crimes committed in the recent history of Yugoslavia, in which the Serbian people were the greatest victim. First in victims, Serbia must be first in condemning all crimes, according to the DSS and New Serbia declaration. Which part is vague and unacceptable to you, about the equality of the victims, about the search for truth? Is there anything other than the truth and only the truth about all the crimes and all the victims can be the assumption of real reconciliation and lasting peace in the region? Who could have written such a hypocritical declaration to the College of Parliament on the verge of muslims, as well as Serbian victims, without a soul count? Do you really need dead voters? In whichever one of you, I think of you gentlemen from the light coalition, especially these red ones, there is at least a grain of humanity and personal courage that overcomes party discipline, let him now be bold to think with his own head and with his pure heart. Say no, I can't accept a text like this, for my own sake, for my ancestors' sake, for my children's sake. The Serbian Orthodox Church condemns every crime and reminds that no crime can be justified by the accidents others are inflicting on us. The crimes committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in other areas of the former Yugoslavia, are the work of those irresponsible people who have foolishly taken into their own hands the right to judge others. These are not works that the whole peoples, the religions, stand behind. It is therefore also the obligation of the people on behalf of whom crimes are committed to clearly and unequivocally distance themselves from criminals and to show human solidarity with the victims of war, regardless of their ethnic or religious background. We all have to feel at least for a moment, all that pain of parting, all the indescribable sadness, all the things behind the tears of the family, the tears of the children, behind the moaning and the neglect. Each of us must feel, by his own will, in the name of mankind and mankind, both grief and pain, and remorse and compassion and sleep, but above all and above all, a request addressed to the people and a prayer sent to the Savior, never to repeat it again and again. Prayer and prayer so that these two people's sorrows no longer be separated in the future, not in two different days, not on two different sides. So as not to separate so scarred death and the suffering of one side and the other. This is the text of a statement on memorials dedicated to the victims of the war conflict in the Srebrenica area, from 1992 to 1995, which, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the tragedy on behalf of the SPC, has now sent now a blissfully rested Patriarch, Serbian Mr. Paule. I don't believe that the church's views on such essential issues go out of date, as the fact that Christ was born, crucified, and resurrected will never go out of date. It is clear that after five years of this statement and from the first declaration both the DSS and New Serbia, only one declaration of condemnation of all crimes on the territory of the former Yugoslavia should be adopted today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37926	Time. Please bring the end. National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37927	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that I risk whatever I say to be small and poor about the Srebrenica genocide, but as time goes by, so in our society, there will be a convergence of views on this terrible crime and, after years and decades, there will be only one measure left, and that measure, compared to that crime, on the genocide of Srebrenica, will be a measure of humanity. That is why today, we MPs of the Serbian Parliament, should demonstrate our own humanity. That is why the Liberal Democratic Party has tabled amendments to the proposal for the text of the Srebrenica Declaration, not to spite it, but to help, because we think that some have not had the courage to tell this society the truth. So we will insist that these amendments be adopted, so that this declaration is acceptable not only to us in the Serbian Parliament, but also to our society, and to the society in which we live today, and to the society in which we live, because LDP says that the fair text of the declaration and the fair relationship to the crime in Srebrenica binds us not only to the present, but also to the future. As a Bosniak and citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I expect and expect my assembly, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt such a text of declaration to tell society the truth, such a text of the declaration to be a declaration of reconciliation, not a declaration of creating new divisions, and a division among its own citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, between Serbs and Bosniaks. Therefore, much more important than the inter-party agreement on the text of this declaration, it was necessary to make an international agreement, first, with you in the ruling coalition, then here in the Serbian Parliament, and also in the society in which we live. This declaration, as I said, should be a declaration of reconciliation of the two peoples, but also a declaration of condemnation and a denunciation of that policy that allowed evil, that policy that created, supported, rules, justified, denied Srebrenica, that policy that was not defeated in 2000, though defeated, by that policy that found a new performer in 2000, when she gave up one performer, that policy that still tries to stop Serbia on its way to the EU. In order for the Serbian Parliament to clearly distance itself from genocide, to individualise the genocide, it is necessary to publicly indicate who is convicted of Srebrenica – General Krstic, Pandurovic. Who's on trial? Radovana Karadzic. Who's wanted for Srebrenica? Ratko Mladić. Those who fear mentioning the real name of crime in Srebrenica and the names of criminals try to impose collective responsibility on both their people and other peoples. We must therefore say that Krstic, Pandurovic, Karadzic, Mladic and others are neither tried, nor convicted, nor are they on the run because they are Serbs, but because they are criminals. Finally, I must express my satisfaction, if possible today, in this debate, to have a sense of satisfaction, that I belong to a foreigner and a parliamentary group that does not calculate and address neither Serbs nor Bosniaks as voters, but as people – 220,000 citizens voted for us, for our party, because they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because they have sought and requested that the state, the Republic of Serbia, respect them. I'm sorry if today LDP is the only party that will protect that principle and that value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37928	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Just, please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37929	Today I will be the only SNS MP to talk about this subject, not because others could not or could not, but because of the seriousness of this topic we want to take responsibility for both of us, those who accuse me of being away from Europe, and others who accuse me of having to do everything we've done in the last year and a half because of our success. I would point to several aspects of this declaration that you have suggested. First, a political aspect. As I see it, the aim is to attack Republika Srpska's integrity. I don't think you should have been involved in this without at least consulting the Republika Srpska, because it seems to me that this is a kind of condemnation of the citizens of Republika Srpska and that we question very much the state they created, struggling to stay alive, because it could be said that the state, recognised from Belgrade, was created by genocide, was ruled in the International Court of Justice. I think that the last goal -- to bind Serbia's hands, as a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, is to further undermine the status of Republika Srpska, but also to make it difficult for Serbia to see international courts, as well as the question of KIM's status. Here MPs who belong to other nations, not to Serbian, remind of the crimes some Serbs have committed against them. I prayed we wouldn't get into it when one of us hurt someone, he insulted us, because it would separate us forever. If you forgive anyone, don't remind him of anything you've forgiven. If you've forgotten him, why do you remind him? Who reminded you of what you forgot? If the Serb people are brave enough to forget the crime against them, they must forget the crimes they committed. To stand in his mind as a warning, to know in advance a man who could do it again, so that man would not get a chance. But you know that our packed atrocities and crimes whenever we were to be punished and that the Markales were the reason for the attack on the Serbian position in BiH, that Racak was causus white for aggression against the SRJ. Later, it turns out Walker was lying. Has anyone apologized to Serbian citizens who, in the most part, suffered the bombing? Or did we experience that they call all our children collateral damage? That's why I'm fighting today so nobody insults other people's children. I know how it was for the parents of Milica Rakic, and today they don't understand why one child, in one bathroom, in a tut, or wearing, as anyone says from our citizens, got a bomb drop in a settlement where there is no industrial and not military facility within three kilometers. So these declarations are an opportunity for all of us and it would be nice to hold meetings today in all parliaments in the countries of the former Yugoslavia with similar texts, not to mention, with the same. How many dozen Serbian victims fell from the hands of Naser Oric? Did anyone apologize? Has anyone expressed their condolences? Didn't Serbian President Boris Tadic do a great gesture on behalf of Serbia when he apologized for all the crimes committed on behalf of Serbs? What was the reaction? Have you read somewhere that his colleague from one of the former Yugoslav republics apologized to the Serbs? Why are we careful when we, unilaterally, bring such declarations? Because that action has never experienced a reaction. Never came back from that spring, so someone could say something positive about our people as well. That's why we insisted. So we ask you to think a little bit, to withdraw this for the other day, to bring it in freely, to have condolences for Serbian sacrifices, to have a conviction for those who have committed crimes against the Serbian people. We're not asking any more of us. We at SNS are not asking you to remain silent about the crime in Srebrenica. We are not ashamed that someone committed a crime there, but I warn you that you might be ashamed not to mention Serbian victims, that there is something suspicious and strange, that just so much drowning in other people's suffering and other people's pain can't be too honest if you don't feel your suffering and your pain. We haven't washed ourselves clean by just other people's victims and other people's pain to admit it, or maybe your neighbors haven't had anything bad in the last 20 years, especially during the first five years of the war, especially during the bombing? It's not like you haven't met any Serbian citizens who haven't been bombed, who hasn't been killed? You didn't happen to see any cities, no bridges, no railway compositions, no buses that shot and bombed, did you?- I'm sorry. You're not in pain with the suffering of your kin, are you?- I'm sorry. You must be in pain. May it hurt us all that others suffer for some Serb, but it must hurt when the Serbs suffer. We have to be equal to everyone. You're not showing me that you're better people by not mentioning your people. It just shows that you're meeting something, otherwise you'd have the courage to say -- let's clear it all up at once, and our criminals, and others, and our pain, and other people's pain. But in that moral aspect of which I would say something else, I don't believe at all, because you say -- we will benefit from expressing our condolences and apology. Who else expresses their condolences and apologizes for any benefit? I guess you're doing it out of your own inner need, to show how you feel, and what could you do to remove it, and not – we'll be easier in the EU if we come forward about Srebrenica? Then we'll sleep easier if we carry that burden on our souls. Do not let me doubt that there is even morale in submitting the proposal of this declaration, but only benefits. Don't let the families of the Srebrenica victims suspect it, that you're not being honest at all, but that you're expecting some benefit, I hit that word of yours, some benefit. It's not easy for us to talk about today. Unserious politicians accuse us of being traitors. We are excluded from one political party because we said the party could be in the EU, but only with KIM in its composition. Today, that's what these same politicians say, I guess, pressed against the results of our policy. The other, transformed politicians, say we are fighting for nothing and we will never bring Serbia into the EU, since there are already real Europeans who know how Serbia should enter. What are you guys up to? Until two years ago, you didn't even know where Europe was. You have, like, some EU authority on democracy, so you both resent what we're going to say. It would be good for you to listen carefully to our words and think carefully about what we are saying. Of course, the reason we got kicked out of that party was not because we were for the EU, but today we would have left it ourselves, since the party said Ratko Mladic was a hero, and that Borislav Pelevic is not a hero, only because Borislav Pelevic lives a Serbian hero and is available to the authorities. Today, your Serbian fighters filed a criminal report to the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, the extended arm of the UN tribunal. Today, this team of patriots is working with The Hague tribunal. They say there is no fair trial, and they want to send Borislav Pelevic. What is it with which Borislav Pelevic resented a political party who knows very well what it is to fight The Hague tribunal? By belonging to the SNS. This is how you would deal with people from other parties, and with people from another people, because you did not go any further. You're standing and waiting. You're waiting for the time to return in which you'll be able to accuse other people's children of not being children because they belong to a people who have committed crimes. I know that the communist government wronged the Serbs first, and then also the Hungarians, and the Muslims, Albanians and all, 1944, 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948. Where are the cemetery dogs in Kragujevac? There are no Hungarians who were killed by the communists. Where are they in Chačka? They killed the Serbs. It's one regime that killed at the time. To apologize now to the people who killed the communists, come on, and that's nice, but then you make us remember when other people killed Serbs, reminding each other, until we start shooting at each other, because there are both fathers and grandfathers. It would have been better if we had waited calmly for this session and for the peaceful and reconciled from this session to come out, not divided. Do you see that we are at 50%, for and against, that is, for the rest of us? What kind of state is it divided into 50%? How long until the conflict? You only know that you have 126 votes, applaud when it's 126. I would love to represent some ruling coalition that is supported by half of it, plus one MP. What are you buying that has 126, these serious and normal people who know this is a disaster, that is nearing the end of this rule? I see, pensioners fled into the woods, they're used to it, illegals. "Serbishum" is a good shelter for PUPS, excellent. Well done, you've shown, pensioners, that they vote for you to be in public enterprises. Pensions die as high as they are, but it's for you. It's a moral threshold. Also, you sitting underneath them, all charges on your account. Your president is dead, he can't defend himself. Sit with them, right next to you, all at your expense. Come on, these 'yellows', they have their own politics, they don't care that you're playing cards with each other. They reconcile you on Thursday, after six hours of debate, you'll fight again, because now you're holding on, you're not allowed to vote, nor are you strong, nor are you in the nation at all. There's only you in Parliament. Look at how many parties there are in Parliament, and they are not in the people. They say they're strong. Where are the strong? When they stop in front of the mirror? A kid standing across from them, they shouldn't say they're strong, but when he's standing across from himself, he's strong. This would be a good opportunity for reconciliation, and you'll fight us even more, a good opportunity to condemn the crimes, to mention our people, to think of the people in Republika Srpska. What are we doing to him? He wants to fight it. Look at our beautiful and beautiful Sarajevo. How many percent of Croats and Serbs still live in Sarajevo? It's down to enclaves. No one's gonna talk about it. Whatever someone else does, we're ashamed, we're ashamed, whatever they do to us. So please think again, if there is any way to convince you that we should work together on this, and those who will vote against, and those who will be abstention, surely there is some text that we would find ourselves in. No one denied the crime in Srebrenica today. Wasn't that the basis for making a good declaration? They'd give in to those who would say "genocide," they'd give in to those who wouldn't write anything, we'd find some satisfying text. Whoever wrote this text meant only Western forces. I heard your president's statement the other day, again, that Europe has no alternative. Think of the people as well. You will be punished for this more seriously than the EU can. If you can still think about how you do evil to yourself, not others. As far as we're concerned, our conscience is completely calm. I was in prison when it happened. Watch out for a man with a calm conscience who's been in prison. How is it going to be for someone who's going to be in jail, I can only assume. We did not participate in crimes, we do not justify them, we do not support them, we condemn them, but we are not soulless and we are not hypocritical. I can't say I understand other people's pain without understanding mine. I don't want any part of it. Give us a chance to feel both someone else's and our pain, to condemn both someone else's and our crime, and we'll vote for the declaration. If you don't give us that chance, you haven't given our children a chance to live normal. One day we will be punished for Serbia's decision to accept a crime it did not participate in. Whoever committed the crime should answer for him. Anyone who isn't can go quietly and proudly with his head up. Is the government or the opposition, what does it matter? With all the shame that the ministers who spend your reckless state budget bring you, you want to load this on yourself. I'd call that Prime Minister, so I'd say, come on, you suggest here, what does 114 suggest? You can't get away with it, and the term of office, for God's sake, was half of it. Look how fast it goes, how fast it runs. Whatever you do from today to the election, you can't stop the power of the SNS. You have nothing left to lift yourself up. To sell Gerdap, to sell Telekom, what else do you have to sell? Let's do it in two years, then what? Any more time, anything later? Is there anything left for the kids? They went to the hands of bandits, criminals, citizens from other countries, who bought you a factory and 10,000 acres of land with it. The factories went into the wind, no more glass. What's left in Serbia? To wash and apologize like this, counting on charity. There's only free cheese in the mouse. If we don't earn this, if our behaviour doesn't deserve to join the EU, if this isn't a regulated country, if security, justice and justice are not more important than anything else, we can write a declaration after the declaration. Declarations do not enter the EU, but work, torture, effort, denial, honesty and honesty. We may break down in the EU, but we cannot break down before we enter there. Let's remember, then we came in honest, and some of them broke down there. That's why I appeal to your conscience. You're familiar with neighbors, people, friends, they'll ask you. You are familiar with the people who have evicted and fled. Among you are their descendants. They will ask you, "What have you forgotten our sacrifices?" No one will condemn you for mentioning Srebrenica, but they will condemn you for only mentioning her. Anyone who doesn't appreciate himself won't appreciate him. You had a previous government that didn't appreciate itself and you saw what it looked like. Must be appreciated, must go through life upright. Insult, humiliation, blow, and move on. You've got someone to look up to, maybe even get better. As far as we're concerned, we're not for this declaration and we're not against a conviction of crime, and we're going to take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37930	Replica, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must refer to Mr Nikolic's exposure. To avoid any confusion, the text of a declaration submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic is essentially no different from the text of the DS declaration. I am really surprised that Mr Nikolic is so troubled by The Hague tribunal, and look at what is in the preamble of the text of the declaration he filed: "In view of the International Court of Justice's ruling, the UN chief judicial body, brought in a dispute over BiH's lawsuit against Serbia-Montenegro, on 26 February 2007, Serbia is obliged to take effective steps to ensure full respect for its international obligations, including full co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia". Article 1 of that declaration states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, strongly condemns the crime, namely condemning the crime committed against the Bosniak population of Srebrenica in July 1995 and cited in the International Court of Justice's ruling." So, Mr. Nikolic, you don't have to vote for the DS declaration, your declaration is the same as theirs, there's no fundamental difference, except in writing style. It's really funny, then, that you tell someone that the extended arm of the UN tribunal is. What did the SRS want? If at least there is a suspicion that someone was involved in the killings of civilians in BiH, let a criminal act be against him, against Pelevic, against me, against anyone, but let us not blame the back of the Serb people. That guilt is loaded with its declaration and DS and Mr Tomislav Nikolic. There is no fundamental difference between these two parties. Take in front of you the text of a declaration proposed by Mrs Nada Kolundžija, take the text of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's declaration and find me one essential difference between these two texts. There's no such thing as a difference. So, both want to blame each other for what happened in BiH burdens Serbia and the Serbian people, and the SRS wants the exact opposite, so if they are guilty, let them respond, and if they are not guilty, let them live as free citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37932	Mr. Momo Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37933	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, above all, I would like to express my regrets and condolences to all families of the victims who were killed in Srebrenica on behalf of the PUPS Group. I also express my condolences and regret on behalf of the pensioners and the MP's group for all victims at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, especially the Serb victims. We asked for a resolution, or declaration to be considered in Parliament, and we gave our consent. We have searched and we are asking for another declaration to be found on Parliament's agenda, and it will soon be found. We'll vote for one and another declaration. What I want to say to the previous speaker is that for the second time today, he has abused a pay phone to talk about pensioners, to talk about something that we have nothing to do with. I want to say that the marketing used by that speaker in Parliament will not, I'm sure of it, waver the pensioners to vote on those parties that protect the material and social position and rights acquired. The company that was here has nothing to do with us, nor do we have any representative or director in that company. At this moment, at such a serious moment, when Parliament discusses such a sensitive matter, it has nothing to do with it and it is neither correct nor fair. For this reason, I ask that we discuss this matter seriously, not to slap, by the way, certain parliamentary groups and some MPs, but to return to the topic. I'm asking the gentleman who talked about it to leave us alone to do our job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37934	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37935	I just want to say that if we say this declaration that the crimes were committed by individuals and that we are looking and we are giving full support to the state authorities that they are being processed, then, at the very least, it is not fair to its own citizens, citizens of Serbia, to deceive them by claiming that this is how the Serbian people become guilty. On the contrary, whoever wants to hide behind the Serb people the perpetrators of these crimes, in fact, directly burdens the Serbian people with responsibility for what happened. We can understand why some people do it. Because that's how they justify their policies that they've been leading and that's responsible for what's been going on these years. So, if the Serbian people were to blame, if we left Ratko Mladic out, then neither were those who led the politics and who caused the conflicts, sowed hatred and intolerance among the peoples in the former Yugoslavia. I think that if there is no other argument, the argument that insistence is that the crime is individual and that the people are not guilty cannot be an argument against this declaration. (President: Bell. ) At the same time, I really understand that there is a terrible amount of words, in which there are all sorts of topics, to avoid answering a simple question. Do you understand the meaning of European values in which human life is incomparable and where there are no questions whether it is less or more valuable, depending on which national or religious omen it carries? So it is not enough to put on a European Badge and claim that you understand what Europe is and recommend that you lead Serbia, which you deceive, because you do not understand what the essence of those values you must stand for, in order to really build a society that is European. You have found a thousand excuses, among other things, accusing us all of having no compassion for the victims of our own people. Except it's incorrect, except it's extremely hypocritical, I think it's extremely rude. You speak here to people whose families also had victims in these wars, who know what was going on in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, who have lost in their families and in no way do they want those victims to be forgotten. On the contrary, just by showing willingness to condemn the victims of others, I'm asking for the right for those perpetrators to respond to us, too. From all that has been said in this last discussion, a single calculation is quite clear. They're accusing us of taking steps. We know that this step is not popular and that it may bear the risk of popularity among citizens, but it is hypocritical to say that we do it out of benefit, and those who only do it by counting potential votes, for God's sake, do it out of love for their own people. What is dangerous and inadmissible is the planting of the thesis to adopt this declaration, in fact, to attack the Republika Srpska. The spread of this kind of fear and uncertainty shows only extreme irresponsibility. Only a strong Serbia, internationally recognised, Serbia that enjoys reputation, Serbia that has credibility as a truly democratic country, which has built European values within its own society, can defend the interests of Serbs wherever they live and can defend the interests of Republika Srpska. Humiliated Serbia, a disfigured Serbia, Serbia hiding or ready to plant a cowardly egg of foreign crime on the side of the Serb people, cannot defend neither its interests nor the interests of Republika Srpska nor the citizens of Serbia. [[Applause to DS MP]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37936	Tomislav Nikolic, replica. Excuse me, Rules of Procedure before you. Mr. Zoran Nikolic is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37937	I would really appeal to you, I call on Article 104 not to allow the MPs, especially someone who is an authorised representative, to deceive in the face, that, looking at the face of his fellow MPs, deceives them and the general public of Serbia. On many occasions, and you have now reiterated that this declaration should be adopted so that the people collectively would not be responsible and that responsibility lies in the individuals who committed these crimes. Where does that say in your declaration? Where does that say? I call upon you to read it and see if you deceive the MPs and the public or not. You may have mixed up the declarations – it says in a declaration proposed by the DSS, which says that war crimes perpetrators are individuals and that as individuals they must be responsible for crimes committed, that crime is a common accident and individual responsibility. Explain what you have been deluding this assembly, this parliament and the Serbian public all day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37938	Do not speak to the MP and do not raise your voice. Mr. Nikolic, you must reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37939	I think I may express my satisfaction that you are already beginning to interpret what we are doing in the congregation. I am sorry that this is not an adequate and competent interpretation, because it is tendingly wrong, but it will be very easy for the Serbian public to make sure that you do not falsely charge, that the proposal for a declaration submitted by the SNS can only look like the proposal for a declaration discussed today. We tried, using the same skeleton, to see what we wanted to change, to submit to you a new text of the declaration. It is that our declaration condemns all crimes committed in the civil war on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, both crimes against the Serb people and crimes committed by Serb peoples against other peoples, and especially crimes committed against the Bosniak population in Srebrenica in July 1995, cited in the International Court of Justice ruling. It is the court we have addressed to defend Kosovo and Metohija. If you say there is a suspicion against Mr Pelevic, my dear patriots, so report him to The Hague tribunal, and it turns out that it is a false application and that man is completely honest, innocent and very honest and, unlike you, he lost his shoulder in the war, then why not report Ratko Mladic, and there is a suspicion that he has committed a war crime? Why don't you report everyone you've heard there's a suspicion? Why did you turn to Borislav Pelevic? How do you single out a man suspected of committing a war crime? Doubt, whose suspicion? Your client's suspicion? The suspect in Serbia that Borislav Pelevic committed war crimes? A suspect in Croatia, in BiH? What did the special prosecutor tell you, does he have any grounds for that suspicion? There isn't. You're just embarrassing yourself. Reported, ratted out a Serb that he committed a war crime, because you don't feel like it. Pelevic is a hero. You have to accept that. Borislav Pelevic is a hero. Mrs. Kolundjia, for the European Badge, tell it to the Socialists. Why are you telling me this? The Socialists wear a European badge, so first tell them to fake you, to lie to you, that they're the same ones that organized Srebrenica, so tell them, and then just tell me that for these two years I've put on a European badge. I didn't put on a European badge, I've got the same badge, I've worn to this day. I have the same story I've been telling for six years, that Serbia should be in the EU, but with KIM, and that Serbia should be a two-door house. I taught you all that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37940	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37941	It is true that you mentioned the EU and claimed that Serbia should be a hole in the golden European carpet. That's right. I really don't want this to be any kind of personal discussion. This isn't about me having sex with anyone in person. I don't think it's a proper way for you, as an authorised representative, to attack me in an argument that's obviously weak, which is why you attack me in a way that's inappropriate. What no one can understand is that, if you admit that a crime has happened and you say, we are sorry for the victims of that crime, if you say – this crime has been committed by some individuals and we will provide all the support to the state authorities that will prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes, then it is clear that you are thus showing unequivocally that it has nothing to do with the state, that responsibility has nothing to do with the state, and at least with the whole people. Only if we hide criminals behind the entire people, then we're turning the blame from individual criminals to the entire nation. What we don't want to happen is that the entire people and future generations of this people carry this heavy burden of potential guilt over what some individuals have done. We can differ whether we should apologize or not. There are people who think the word "excuse" doesn't exist. There are people who don't feel the suffering of another. There are those who are not willing to admit that they are sorry for what happened to something terrible. People like that exist. We can't talk to them, but the people, the citizens of this Serbia, are not like that. So, the people of this country have always shown that they are ready to say "I'm sorry" that they are willing to apologize, that they are ready to give their hand to even the enemy and to support it, and that is why the question of the responsibility of the representatives of that people is that they will not step aside by denying that this people is such, regardless of what some years have been trying to deceive him, to distort his image of reality, to hide what happened, by claiming that it didn't happen, or, if it happened, that something else had happened before. So if you represent yourself here, and I don't believe it, those citizens who are insensitive to other people's suffering, you have the right to represent that attitude. If you represent those who think that one crime should not be condemned, regardless of the victims of some other people, it is your right, we cannot even delude about it, but you cannot accuse those who believe that the responsibility of individuals is to remove responsibility from the entire people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37942	Mr. Martinovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37943	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I answered on the basis of the replica, so if you'd be kind enough to give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37944	There's a basis for replication, but then you'll wait. Mr. Zeljko Tomic, he's advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37945	I'm advertising Article 104. Madam President, you had to react to Mrs Kolundzija's exposure, because she openly tried, in front of the entire public of Serbia, saying in the third person of the one – you, you, you, to frame someone to think ill. Whether it's us from the DSS or from another party, she's obliged to say. I need Mrs. Kolundjia and the entire ruling majority of something... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37946	You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37947	This is what you have to do. Why did you let this happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37948	Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37949	Article 104. Dignity is threatened by the exposure of Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37950	You can only point out that I didn't take care of dignity, you can't address an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37951	All right, I'm talking to you. Which means, "I don't think I'm apologizing to anyone for the crimes others committed. Besides, what's an apology? I'm interested in determining personal criminal responsibility, but that must be two-way. What about the Sundays committed by Muslims, Albanians and Croats? '"How about this? This is not what Vojislav Seselj said, neither did Tomislav Nikolic, nor Cedomir Jovanovic, said Zoran Djindjic on 11 May 2002. You can easily check. Where is the end of your shame, your shame and your immorality, that's all I'm asking? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37952	Mr. Zoran Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37953	I'm referring to Article 104. Mrs Nada Kolundzija has been deluding the people's MPs and the Serbian public all day long. I'm giving you a yellow flomaster, so pull the...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37954	You can't talk twice about the same injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37955	Article 27. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37956	You don't have a word. Don't let me impose a sanction. You don't have a word, there have already been these remarks from your MP group. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37957	Just to warn that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, because Mrs Kolundzija has deceived the citizens of Serbia and has knowingly misrepresented us, one of my statements about the EU, on the orders of a team that prepares such lies and insinuations. Namely, on the television show, you can check it out, I said that Europe will not allow Serbia to be a hole in the golden carpet and will do everything in its power to patch that hole up, and Mrs Tadic and Mrs Kolundžija have turned it into "we will be a hole in the golden carpet". Now imagine someone saying, "I want to be a hole."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37958	Proposer's representative, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37959	Then you'll have to complain to all the TVs, which apparently threw a part of what you were saying, so everyone could see that you said what I said. I would just like to read point 2) of the National Assembly declaration, which says, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provides full support for the work of the state authorities responsible for the processing of war crimes and for the successful completion of co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, in which the discovery and arrest of Ratko Mladic is particularly important, for the trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. "If it's not an individualization of crime, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37960	By 20:45 tonight we'll be in direct transmission, trying to make it longer, but the delayed transmission will, of course, be. He has a word, a replica, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37961	Thank you, Madam President. I have to answer the question why we didn't file criminal charges against General Ratko Mladic. Because the SRS believes today, as it believed two years ago, and five years ago, that Ratko Mladic is the hero of the Serb people. We have filed a criminal complaint against Borislav Pelevic because certain witnesses, who were brought to testify against Vojislav Seselj, had not heard or seen any members of the SRS participate in any crimes against civilians, but we heard and saw that some members of the Serbian Voluntary Guard participated in it. Otherwise, this great Serb Pelevic tied the same Serbs in Erdu to the bandits, forced them to bark like dogs, smuggled oil from Djeletovci...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37962	Please, you can't talk about a fellow MP like that. Mr. Martinovic, you can't. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37963	It is now finally revealed that the government has long been in Serbia. Who's the traitor? The one the SRS says about? Who's the hero? The one the SRS says about. Who's honest? The one the SRS says about. Telling Borislav Pelevic that he was smuggling, it's like telling you about Vojislav Seselj, and talking about him smuggling oil. To say that Ratko Mladic was a hero, but only some witnesses were against him. Well, you just said that everyone for whom there is an application should undergo trial before the war crimes tribunal, or before the UN tribunal. Everyone. Except, you say, Ratko Mladic, since he is a hero to you – he is not a traitor. There's no one here, by you, by me, by anyone. You have a principle or you don't have one. Anyone who's been told he's a criminal, by what you said about Pelevic, he's a criminal. Anyone said to be a war criminal is a war criminal to you, if that suits you. It's also said that Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal. Are you saying he's a war criminal? It's said Radovan Karadzic is a war criminal. Are you saying he's a war criminal? It's all of them, or it's nobody. Say: there is none, not even those who condemn it. You've decided who's going to be a war criminal in Serbia. You, a handful of misery.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37964	You cannot treat an MP with that tone and content.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37965	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37966	Mr. Martinovic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, Mr Tomislav Nikolic says that for us, Ratko Mladic is a hero. Until two years ago, as I recall, he was both for him and for Mr. Alexander Vukic. I didn't pick up a board behind the National Assembly's pay phone saying "Bulevar Ratko Mladic", but a deputy gentleman...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37968	Please, you advertised the Rules of Procedure and you're saying I broke it somewhere. Try to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37969	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm just trying to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of. So, Mr Tomislav Nikolic said he's been in politics for 20 years, and he says, "I've been saying the same thing for the last six years." Mr. Nikolic, what have you been saying for the past 14 years? When you've been telling the truth, in those first 14 years, or in the last six years? Say, for the first 14 years, I've been telling the truth, I've lied, I've cheated, I haven't believed in the ideology of Serbian nationalism; for the last six years I've been telling the truth, I'm honest, I have honorable political beliefs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37970	The Ambassador's injury is advertised by Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37971	The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured here, because you think I have no right to replication when I'm offended or injured. Now let me explain it to you. For fourteen years, like you today, I've listened to Vojislav Seselj, and for six years I've run politics the way I think it should be run. That's the difference. If you'd listened to me, it'd be a big party now. Like this, you just keep listening and waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37972	MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37973	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today, when we are discussing a declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against Bosniaks in Srebrenica, we must be aware of the fact that the declarations and resolutions, however they may be, will not overnight solve all the problems we have in relations between Serbia and BiH, but that today we are also at the opportunity for Serbia to show a clear signal and determination that it is aware of the crimes committed in Srebrenica and that it is more determined than before to start facing the past, and that we should not miss that opportunity. It is, in fact, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the process of reconciliation. We of the SDP had a proposal that could meet our society's need to face what was happening in Srebrenica. However, we felt it was not appropriate to wave this proposal to raise media dust, or to pick up cheap political points. We think it's a very sensitive problem. That is why we have made an effort to prepare a text that we consider much better, both in political and professional terms, than that which is before us today. We thought that in the talks, without the politicization that's been following this topic for almost two months, we could come up with the most optimistic text at this point. Unfortunately for us, many people on this subject wanted to play patriotism, which is immoral, because this is too sensitive a question to be the subject of any manipulation. There have been, even, attempts and complete denial and relativisation not only of crime but also of declaration itself, as well as attempt to create an atmosphere of impunity and oblivion to this terrible crime. All this is both moral and political, ladies and gentlemen, inadmissible. That is why we support the intention to adopt such an apology act in the Serbian Parliament. This will be very important for Serbia, as it will also give it moral credibility to have the same principled attitude when it comes to crimes committed against Serbs. We'd like to participate in both making and writing and those declarations. This will strengthen the position of the Serbian state, not only in the region, but also in the EU. Most importantly, it will be taken away from everything that has happened in the past. On the other hand, we estimate we haven't fully taken this chance. We're kind of halfway there. Unfortunately, this will further open unnecessary controversy, and on two levels, the internal plan will challenge this declaration on both sides, for one it will be too mild, and for the other it will be too harsh. The international plan, especially in BiH, will be welcomed with some half effect. I'll say something about the very wording of the declaration that's in front of us today. I don't think it's appropriate that in the preamble no single word mentions a crime in Srebrenica, so whoever first reads this text doesn't know what it is until it comes to the name of the declaration itself. That is why I proposed a change in the preamble, in the last indent, that the new text read, quote the amendment that I submitted: " Starting with the fact that serious crimes against Bosniaks in Srebrenica in BiH were committed in July 1995, which included the mass killings of men, the persecution of women, children and the elderly, and which, according to the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, were qualified as a crime of genocide." Of course the Serbian Parliament is not a court. What happened in Srebrenica was a verdict, it was done by the UN's highest judicial authority, which we recognise as a state. We don't make judgments, we don't give any legal qualifications. By formulating in preamble, the declaration would, in my opinion, gain weight, and thus challenge any criticism which, otherwise, I am sure, will be. Secondly, why are the preamblers calling for the Constitution, the International Criminal Court? There's no need. Is it clear to everyone why this declaration is being made? General formulations in preamble, which are contained in the indents where they are said: "Explaining commitment to the spirit and standards of the universal declaration, handling the objectives of permanent peace and stability, trying to remember the harsh armed conflicts etc.", you get the impression as if the goal was just to make some text, not why one such declaration is brought. Proposers, as the people would say, circle like rain around the Kragujevac, run away from the problem, from the topic. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs who are proposing this declaration seem to have missed your courage. With all due respect to political reality, it had to be made clear what this declaration is about. This is a declaration for one terrible crime. The last indent in the preamble is particularly interesting. I quote: "Being in mind that the International Court of Justice said that Serbia is obliged to take effective steps to ensure full respect for its international obligations". I suppose, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we bring this declaration for our sake, for our citizens, for facing a terrible crime, for the truth, for the future. The relationship to the crime in Srebrenica will show how much we as a state and society are prepared to move away from the policy that led to this crime. This declaration is our obligation, not only because of international obligations, but because of so far's silence on it. We need to get rid of that burden because of ourselves. The general preamble formulations were, unfortunately, retained in the text of the declaration itself. The use of euphemisms is, for example, 'because everything has not been done to prevent tragedy', as if it were a flood or an elemental accident, not a major and unique crime that occurred on Europe's territory after World War II. Despite everything, we are aware of the sensitivity of this issue. Whatever text of the declaration to finally adopt, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reality is that, at this point, it seems, as the National Assembly, as a society, as a state, we can no longer. It's the fact that we're all facing today. Let us therefore look to the truth in the eyes; they shall relativize one another, and the other shall pour oil upon the fire. It's both wrong. The proposing's intentions are sincere, noble, useful to the state of Serbia. We are also aware of the proposing restrictions to reach as many MPs as possible who should support this declaration, because this is a very important issue and deserves our full support. No matter what, we respect the fact that, and in this form, this declaration represents a small step towards changing our relationship to this crime. The declaration should also be an important assumption in establishing trust between the nations and the former Yugoslavia. It is very important that this declaration still contains respect for the International Court of Justice verdict, which has qualified the crime in Srebrenica as a crime of genocide. The declaration also includes the condemnation of the crime, it also contains the willingness to arrest and bring the UN tribunal to justice, if in Serbia, the most responsible for the crime, Ratko Mladic. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that there is still room for some of our objections to be incorporated into the proposed text of the declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37974	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37975	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the ruling majority missed the opportunity today, when adopting the agenda of the Second Session, to put into the agenda a proposal for a declaration condemning all the crimes in the former Yugoslavia committed during the war, in which there would be an explicit condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica, but it would be cited by some other strategists and other crimes which, by their own size and manner of execution, do not lag behind, but, even, perhaps, run forward, which have been committed against the Serb people, in order not to establish a balance, but to do so, this assembly would declare the victims, full of compassion for them in the right sense of that word, that it would not feel like someone standing here and blowing behind their necks, making them do what they look like in some kind of historical compromises, but in fact, that they would not be able to be able to compromise with the facts, that they would be, in fact, in fact, that they would be, in fact, in fact, that they would be, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, that they would be, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, that they would be, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do. It's, literally, a shame. Thousands of people were killed in Kragujevac, in the Kingdom, also in 1941, hundreds of thousands of people were killed in Jasenovac. In Kragujevac and the King it is clear that they were Serbs, in Jasenovac it is known that they were mostly Serbs. Those strategies were never, of any international institution, any court after the war, especially in the former SFRY, declared genocide against the Serb people, ever. There's no formal act on that. Today we have the opportunity to see in your declaration an appeal to the International Court of Justice and it is right to Ceda Jovanovic when she tells you – you are afraid to draw a line to the end, to withdraw it and to say, in addition to the International Court of Justice, what that international court of justice says about a concrete event that you are particularly discussing today with this declaration, and there it is nice to say that they qualify it as genocide. The same International Court of Justice releases the responsibility of the state of Serbia for the event, and you apologize in the same declaration. On whose behalf and why? If something is qualified there as genocide, it is done in one international verdict and it is subject to discussion because we are politicians, and this is Parliament, and we are playing by other rules of the game. We are not even a lower court case that needs to listen to the demands more and implement its decisions, we are the parliament of a single state. What's so controversial about that qualification? In this qualification, it is controversial that never in the world, in any court or judicial system, or in international courts, the crime of genocide has been qualified in this way, starting with the facts that exist on the ground, as partial, as localised. It's all the opposite of the fundamental concept of genocide in international law. Since you can say that the judge is not denied, then we can also say, if the form is more important than the content for all of you, that some earlier judgments that history knows are also valid, and from the aspect of their consequences, and from the aspect of those who are convicted. Then, according to you, Gjordano Bruno is a criminal, because one relevant court, very legal at the time, the court of the Inquisition, sentenced him to death, burning him at the stake, because he claimed the country was round. So much for respecting decisions made by international courts, whether they are part of the UN system when it comes to qualifications. Why is it an important story about qualifications? Because of the far-reaching consequences that are being introduced here. If we say that's what it says there, we do that word to the end, as the LDP here is looking for, or not, as you think you are, we're going to go to the next thing. You bring this declaration as a special declaration of the conviction of a crime on the territory of the former Yugoslavia to which you want to say what you're asking. That's what you're confirming now, that this crime is a symbol of all crimes in the former Yugoslavia's space. Whether you want it or not, whatever verbal devilry you're doing here to prove that you wanted something else, as a representative of Hope Kolundji's proposing does all day, you can't do it, because the act that you bring here today, in the periods to come, will deny you. Whatever declaration we bring on Thursday or Friday to condemn a crime against the Serb people, it will all be a little less important than what has been done today. It all doesn't matter anymore. All that remains our internal affairs. What is brought today is what is brought by order. It's not just our thing, it's the thing that's going to go to historical readings, on which you're going to form the consciousness of Serbian citizens about all of this, without talking about other countries that don't come to mind, despite your wonderful invitation to do what you ask of them, to confess and condemn crimes against the Serbian people; they'll never do it. You can dream of that. Because while Vuk Jeremic, your foreign minister, is trying to talk about resolving refugee issues with representatives of other countries in the region, President Boris Tadic is leaving to see Ivo Josipovic and is agreeing to withdraw the lawsuits and countersuits. Imagine, it is a special curiosity, you have countered Jasenovac and 700,000 people killed in Jasenovac, so that Boris Tadic could at this time cooperate with those victims and negotiate in Opatija with Ivo Josipovic about withdrawing the countersuit for Jasenovac, and any lawyer knows that by withdrawing the lawsuit is somewhat acknowledged that whoever filed the suit is wrong, and the other party that withdraws the suit admits that he is wrong, and that he is definitely putting the point on that story and that it is saying that Jasenovac was not even there. Look what you're doing. That's what you do with this declaration. All the time, that's the point. When she is adopted as special in the National Assembly, whether you want to or not, to bring a declaration or not to condemn a crime against the Serb people, she will remain guilty of Serbia, not even called by the International Court of Justice in The Hague, because according to various historical readers and textbooks, children will have to read that the Serbian people are genocide, and it is genocide because someone in the name of the Serb people has committed a genocide in the name of the Serbian people, without having committed genocide on behalf of the Serbian people, as you believe, we would not apologize. On my behalf, there's no need to apologize. I've never committed any crime. The political party I belong to has never advocated any crime. Most citizens of Serbia at the time of this crime, if you had investigated them, which you know very well, would never have stood up to the execution of such a crime, nor would you have agreed to it, nor would you applaud it. That same majority of the people changed Milosevic in 2000, that party that Nada Kolundzija confused, so she calls out some others, and forgets to sit with them as a coalition partner in the government, who actually carried this story of advocating some war options, hatred, and I don't know what. That's what we're talking about here today. You have liquidated this opportunity for Serbia to stand on its feet as a normal state. You threw her on her knees, and on the Serbian people you threw her away, the kind she was thrown at Nazi Germany, with the right, after World War II, and where is this comparison here? What ever happened here, in this whole story, that we would have to wear that seal and that cross on ourselves? Yeah, we'll confess to the crimes that happened. Yeah, we'll talk about the victims who have a name and a last name, because I sincerely feel sorry for them. Yes, and all crimes should be convicted, including this one, so be it in the first place, but not specifically. What you have done here and whatever you do on Thursday or Friday will end with this country from beginning to end and with every hope of this people in good faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37976	Mr. Sasa Milenić. Did you advertise the Rules of Procedure, Sasha?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37977	It seemed to me that, because of the mention of the town of Kragujevac and the crime in Kragujevac in a context that is relevant to such an important topic, certain experiences that are important should also be conveyed to the public. The international public is familiar with the crime in the Forests of the Fascist occupation, primarily thanks to the huge efforts of friends of the town of Kragujevac from the Federal Republic of Germany, who financed research and publishing projects that dealt with the topic. At "The Great School Hour" in the Forests, a number of emotions have been triggered among many present, sometimes even explicit political messages have caused dissatisfaction, but never with representatives of the German people and the Republic of Germany. The friendship of the town of Kragujevac with local self-government in Germany has always surprised the city's official representatives, a communication that always begins with a personal apology by official representatives of the city. The relativeization of the number of victims in Kragujevac, which our historical science has reached, has never been mentioned by Germany, the German people and their culture. Finally, it has never been mentioned what our researchers are coming to, that the most significant managing staff responsible for the crime in the Forests is not at all German nationality.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37978	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37979	The size of the people is measured, among other things, by his relationship with others. The size of one nation is measured by its relationship to the sacrifices that others have. The size of the Serbian people, regardless of what a small nation is, has never been challenged because of such a relationship with others. So I'm sure that the adoption of this declaration, actually the ones who will vote for it, just confirms that the size of the people we belong to, and we just don't let down what's his essential feature that makes him so great.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37980	National MP Vlajko Senic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37981	President-in-Office, respected members of the presidency, respected MPs, I will be extremely honest, I am deeply convinced that we are having this debate at a time when public opinion in Serbia understands Milos Aligrudic's arguments better than it understands the arguments that we are making here today, proposing this declaration. I think that is why it is important that we conduct one of these open and courageous discussions, 15 years after the massacre that took place in Srebrenica, which the International Court of Justice, Mr Aligrudic, has qualified as genocide, which is the highest legal body of the UN and our last haven that Kosovo will no longer look at the weather forecast, but perhaps there is some international right that we can call upon. So that's the situation in Serbia today. Likely, most citizens believe that this declaration should not be brought, and they do not have a number of citizens, such as you, believe that it is fundamental against our national and state interests. On the contrary, and I am pleased to hope that most MPs in the Assembly will conclude the opposite, that the adoption of the declaration, where we implicitly and explicitly acknowledge the International Court of Justice's ruling on Srebrenica, is the largest and best possible defence of Serbian national interests, because what happened in Srebrenica, Mr Aligrudic, is the triumph and represents the most shameful event that is linked to the Serbian people in its history and it is high time for the Serbian Assembly to be fenced against that evil and shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37982	Just don't talk to Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37983	I have to challenge him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37984	I'd ask you not to address him, though. You'll have to do it again, come on. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37985	Today, we have a obligation, therefore, of a moral obligation, and here it has been said that as people, we fence ourselves from it and say that it was done by individuals who did it on their own behalf, and falsely concealing ourselves behind patriotism. You, Mr. Aligrudic, know it well, and you were a party that also fought Milosevic. So, while individuals were dying and losing their lives and families were left without their children, individuals on this side and on the other side of Drina were trading normally, getting rich, dealing with tobacco, cocaine, and who knows what not. Of this and such policy, false patriotism, we are today in the Serbian Parliament building and building on the fact that ever in the future, political and social opportunities are such that such a policy is repeated. We today express our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and realize that this pain and victims are inexplicable and irreparable, but we are doing what we can at this point, to say that we understand their pain and to understand that, as a state, then, regardless of who was in power, we did not do everything we could to prevent this event. So today, 15 years after the July massacre in Srebrenica, here you are today, opening a CNN site, an hour ago, not this debate, some other thing about Srebrenica is the topic of the world media. Type in, any of our citizens, on Google, or web browser, or search images, so you'll see what pictures appear. We do not allow these to be images of Serbia, the Serbian people, because history never remembers that they were images of Serbia or of the Serbian people, because we were a people who fought through history justly, for their national goals, and not only for their national goals, but also for the national goals of some of our country's countrymen, and we were always on the right side, we were always on the side of the principles of justice and freedom, and precisely because those who individually committed crimes in Srebrenica wanted to hide behind the history and tradition of the Serbian people, we say today – no, gentlemen, these are individuals, they committed a crime in their own name. We regret that Serbia did not then make the greatest effort to prevent this crime, but they have nothing to do with Serbia's past or the present of Serbia, and at least have the right to threaten the future of this country and children who are born and who will only be born in Serbia. I think it's true patriotism, and we all know that such patriots, both before and after 2000, and before and after Srebrenica, did not hesitate to kill, both in Serbia and outside Serbia, members of the Serb people, if they were some brave and reasonable people, who wanted and had the strength and willingness to raise their voice against such a policy. Regardless of what I said, for perhaps a painful debate today and the terrible things that have been heard, we have to ask ourselves – was it normal for something like this to happen today, in 2010, here in the Serbian Parliament, to count whether there were so many victims or so, whether the child was roasted or not, whether there were women or there were no women? Is that the policy we need to stand behind? Is it because some individuals, using the war and the worst things the war carries with them, have committed a crime that is qualified in that verdict as genocide, because some individuals are accused, some of them are on the list that war criminals, we, because of some false solidarity with them, just because they belong to the Serbian people to whom we belong, should be silent, we should bow down, and that for 15 years and 15 years this country suffers because of such individuals? I don't think so. I am convinced that your intentions are similar, not yours as DSS, but all other parties that may not support this declaration today, but we must be aware that of all the crimes that occurred during the wars in the former Yugoslavia, the crime in Srebrenica is set aside and that this declaration, this debate, is necessary for our country and for this assembly. I can say it's a good thing this is being discussed in the congregation. For the first time in a long time, we are talking about some of the things that are important to this country, we are not just talking about certain individual laws, and in this way we are sending citizens of Serbia in some way the message which was the reason this country suffered until 2000 and why today, under the burden of such crimes, we cannot normally and quickly develop, as it would have been, or that we had the courage to bring a declaration like this or a similar to that already in 2001, 2002 or 2003. I have to tell you that today I am proud that the Assembly will bring this declaration, that probably most of us who vote for this, and our parties, will come up with some lower percentage of support for the citizens of Serbia than it was before this assembly, but we will come out with heads up, because for the first time, which is important, even though the government has changed ten years ago, pulled the historic parallel between war criminals, criminals, war profiters, who were minorities at the time of the war, and the vast majority of Serbian citizens, who have always been, are and will be great people and they belong to a great people, first of all, thanks to our willingness to face in this way the things that were happening back then, which someone did calling for them to act on our behalf. In my name, he didn't act, he didn't act on behalf of Serbia's majority. And then it was terrible, it's scary right now, and that's why support for this declaration, gentlemen, is defending Serbian national interests and patriotism of the first kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37986	Mr. Aligrudic, you've left the MP's group. Replica, is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37987	I don't know what I left behind, and I don't know what you're talking about. I have the right to a replica. You didn't understand, obviously, what I said when I mentioned the International Court of Justice's verdict in The Hague. She's a fact. What I said was that we do not have to, nor does it say anywhere in that verdict, to draw a noose of responsibility and guilt on ourselves for something that neither this verdict burdens us nor in that judgment there is any obligation to make any declaration in the Serbian Parliament in particular on the crime in Srebrenica. On the side, even, the qualifications on genocide and the qualifications on genocide that the verdict has raised is the issue of the verdict and the judges who have made it. It may not be disputed only from the point of view of the UN judiciary and some political correctness to which we will look at it and respect it. If that does not suit us, and essentially, as a people, does not suit us, despite the existence of that judgment, it can be politically and morally challenged. That was the essence of my speech. But what I was talking about, which you obviously didn't understand, because you said you were going to vote, that you're happy about it, you won't be able to ask God for as long as you understand, is that when you adopt a special declaration of one crime, whatever it is you're qualified for, and all the other crimes, you're probably not going to be any less scary, if not more scary, no matter what the number of victims in one day on the site, as is the case with cousin villages, where the children and women are clans, where the fairies are pierced and nailed in the door, whatever the pictures are, if it's nothing scary anymore, and this is the most scary, no matter what the number of victims I'm talking about, they're not relevant to what I'm talking about, if it's not a terrible situation where you have tens and hundreds of people who can't go back to their homes, where they have to escape in front of fire and a plane. It's a terrible thing, but because someone wants to wash their consciences in the international community, it starts with the Dutch battalion, which that American, the former general, claimed to have a problem because they represent a gay lobby, so there's a whole lot of noise, starts with them, and to others who have the right and need to wash their consciences because of the crimes they may have, in the first place, had to prevent, so they didn't stop it, which is why we have to suffer and listen, like by command, what comes to someone's mind. No country in the region would do that. It would not be done by Croatia, it would not be done by Bosnia and Herzegovina, no one lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37988	It's been three minutes, Mr. Aligrudic. The word has a People's Messenger, Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37989	Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a huge historical responsibility in front of the Serbian Parliament. The Parliament's decision today depends on whether a free tradition of the Serb people will be preserved or if the Serbs will suffer inexplicable historical damage. We Serbian radicals will try and try to convince you to reject this proposal with disgust, because it has no basis in fact or international law. I remind you that, in the sense of Article 2. The Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide, genocide considers the murder of members of the group, a serious violation of the physical or mental integrity of the members of the group, a deliberate submission of the group to living conditions that should lead to its complete or partial destruction, measures aimed at preventing birth within the group, the forced transfer of children from one group to another, if these works are done in the intention of total or partial destruction of one national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such. The crime that took place in Srebrenica, which is still unknown to the true truth, is in no way possible under this definition. If Serbia had been represented by any average lawyer with expressed patriotic feelings before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, it would have been very easy to prove that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Unfortunately, the interests of the Serbian people were represented by Radoslav Stojanovic, who, during his long career, persistently proved that he cared less about the interests of Serbia and the Serb people. He simply accepted the verdict. Today, we heard a witness boasting that he was also welcomed by the regime in Serbia as a hero who allegedly saved Serbia from a direct charge of genocide in Srebrenica. He doesn't care what happens in Republika Srpska. Already then, the Western forces' intentions were clear to give up Kosovo and Metohija based on such a decision and to create conditions for the destruction of Republika Srpska. Today, it is clear that the regime in Serbia has succumbed to the pressures of Muslim propaganda and that you intend to mark your own people with this declaration. You never wanted the truth about Srebrenica to be established, although many serious people, who investigated it, presented unquestionable facts about the abuse of so-called “abuse. ” The Srebrenica case, and today you've called these serious people here even some quasi-scientists. You disrespected all the serious research, so it's no wonder we're now laughing at the faces of those who created this case. I remind you, I don't know if you read in a daily newspaper a statement from the Director of the Memorial Centre in Potocari, Mersad Smailovic a decade ago. He said that about 50 people who did not die in July 1995 were buried in Potocari, explaining that it was done for sentimental reasons and that relatives of the silver victims were buried there. The same text states that the Memorial centre confirmed that not only the silver victims of July 1995 were buried in Potocari, but also Muslims who had previously been killed in the war. So that's a statement from the Potocari Memorial center. The real truth is that not only the people of Srebrenica are buried there. There are a lot of information on the names of people who were allegedly buried in Potocari, and later appeared on the electoral lists and went to the polls and voted healthy. In addition, Srebrenica is the reason why the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet been maintained. It's also a public secret. Today, if you adopt this declaration, you are, in fact, closing the Srebrenica story. Anyone who would like to continue, possibly, to investigate the truth about these crimes, and there are people who will do so, will come across the wall set by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting this declaration, which will be the greatest historical mistake of this regime, and the responsibility of all of you individually who will vote for this shameful act. A few days ago, Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu said Serbia would soon apologize for the Srebrenica crime, in which thousands of Bosnian Muslims were reportedly killed. I ask you, how did he know that before the MPs got the text of this declaration? Maybe it's a better question -- who promised him that, or why didn't he ask him when he would apologize for two and a half million killed Armenians by Ottoman Turkey? We can also ask how in a private visit to Josipovic, Tadic promises to withdraw the countersuit against Croatia, and he does not wonder when Josipovic will apologize to Serbs for millions of killed Serbs, Roma and Jews in NDH, then for "Blash", "Storm", "Medac pocket"? Who will apologize to the Serbs for the 10,000 killed in Sarajevo, for the Voluntary, for the Tuzlan column? We could count by tomorrow. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are you demeaning the victims of your own people? Why are you making fun of those victims? Why are you marking future generations? You allow the victims to be turned into criminals. Why are you doing this to yourself? Isn't it time to stop courting the enemies of the Serbian people, in fact, you who do this to the SRS are saying that every crime is lit up and that every individual is being prosecuted and punished by law. That is why we, the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, have handed down concrete evidence of crimes against a group of Muslims in Zvornik, and today we also call on them to shed light on the crime and to initiate proceedings against the actual perpetrators of the crime. So we advocate that every crime be punished and that those who have committed a crime, and citizens are the Republic of Serbia, are tried in Serbia's courts. In addition, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, has expressed its position on war crimes by adopting the Criminal Code, which provides for all these crimes and penalties for perpetrators. No one in their right mind would object to criminal law being applied to any particular individual who has committed such an act, but individual criminals must not be your alibi for condemning the entire people. What you're doing today is a crime against your own people. You see, as part of the regime, you also blindly execute the orders of the Western forces. It is no accident that you are making this declaration just these days, when in The Hague the verdict is being prepared for the military and police officers of Republika Srpska. These days we hear, and today we're talking, that you're looking for an alibi for this, and in the alleged condemnation of a crime in Srebrenica by the government of Republika Srpska, in June 2004, but that, gentlemen, is not true. It is true that Mikerevic's government adopted the Commission's report on the events in and around Srebrenica from 10 July to 19 July 1995 and that report speaks of thousands of additional victims, as well as those who, accompanied by representatives of the High Commissioner for Refugees, flew to Belgium, Switzerland, the Netherlands and live there today. So there's a lot of examples of ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, a little time since you haven't given us double the time. I urge you, like us Serbian radicals, not to agree to this confusion and not to vote in favour of the proposal for this declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37990	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37991	If we didn't know it was 2010 today, I'd think we were in the '90s, and I'd still suffer some new wars and some new conflicts, new hatreds and new victims. Fortunately, this is 2010 and what you are talking about, as the only result, is that you sow fear with the citizens of Serbia. In fear, crimes were born. First the fear came that he was the other enemy, and then the crime took place. Now that you've exhausted all enemies on the side, now you're left with enemies in the country, you're trying to turn the citizens of Serbia against those who believe that crime is something that must be punished, that the criminal has to answer, that the victim deserves respect and drink. The only encouraging thing is that there are fewer and fewer citizens who believe what you're talking about. [[Applause to MP DS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37992	Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Radeta, you signed up, and one of you can have a word. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know, Mrs. Kolundjia, why do you need to put something in our mouths that we didn't say? Who among us today sowed fear, panic, hatred, impatience, or anything like that? You are mistaken, Mrs. Kolundzija, if you think that true reconciliation between the countries and the peoples of the former Yugoslavia can be achieved by bringing some kind of declaration based on counterfeits, on falses, on falsification of historical facts. You said, "There were several thousand Muslims killed." I gave you a pathological report from an Italian pathologist. So, he's not a member of the SRS, and he says that in the entire territory of the Srebrenica municipality, 1800 and some corpses were found. I asked you -- can you people who have a deed to the EU, to human rights, answer me -- how do you know how many of them died by withdrawing from Srebrenica to Tuzla, how many of them suffered in each other's Muslim accounts, how many of them suffered from NATO bombs, since NATO's pact was effective that day, July 11th, on the territory of the Srebrenica municipality? You don't know how to answer these questions, but you do know that we, who don't think like you, stick to the worst possible epithets. Mr. Micunovic today called for humanism, for the general brotherhood of all peoples, for some universal human values, and I welcome it, but you would like these universal human values to be reserved for you alone. You are reportedly very sorry for the Muslims from Srebrenica, and you share with your colleagues sitting with you in this House the worst possible epithets. How do we know you're being honest? Apparently, you have a tremendous need to apologize to someone, to be complicit in someone's pain, and then, when you hear something that doesn't suit your democratic ear, you say we're anti-European-oriented, that we're panic-sitters, fear, etc. I didn't, on purpose today, say something that you and I both know from our piety to a man who's no longer alive. Well, your party leader made an ox with Radovan Karadzic in 1993. This was not the work of Vojislav Seselj, nor I, nor the Prophet of Radeth. Whose name was Ljubisa Savic Mauser? Was he a member of the SRS? So the question arises – where do you get the right to put everything that happened at the premises of the former Yugoslavia on your back "so guilty Serbian Radical Party". (President: Time. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37994	First, Professor Micunovic wants to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37995	Mr. Micunović has a replica of this exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37996	So in my first presentation, I heard that Mladic wouldn't hurt an ant, and when we add it all together, he's absolutely not guilty, and now I hear the details of how it happened, the Muslims killed each other, some of them, whether or not they bombed their allies, and so it happened, something got killed, so they couldn't break through from those forces. We don't need a story like that. Those poor, poor, tied up by these heroes were killed. It remains a shame and it is not related to the Serbian people or to the Serbian state, but to the fact that they are people who have both women and children, they are human beings. We don't need to remember Dostoyevsky talking about how one child who cries is more important than any major historical battle. So, I was talking about this humanism, and I said that this is being reduced and relativized -- so it wasn't, so it's not. It's completely inhumane. That's one problem. The second question is what you're talking about. That was, as far as I know, one demonstration of support in the threat of bombing there. From this, no further link can be made that could bind the DS in any way to Karadzic's policy or anyone. That's another question now. You mentioned him, which is why I wanted to tell you. I say once again, let's try it, it's called compassion, it's theories of moral compassion or value, let's imagine these people, because they were refugees in Srebrenica, besides those from Srebrenica. Try to do it now in any way or relativize it or reduce it, it's really not human. That's all I wanted to talk about. [[Applause DS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37997	Mr. Martinovic, this was just the answer to your replica. (Alexander Martinovic raider from the scene: It is not true. No, Mrs. Radeta asked before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37998	I wanted to replicate to Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia, because I really didn't understand this kind of reaction, given that, Mrs. Kolundjia, I was making arguments here, speaking the language of fact, and today is really a difficult topic, especially for those of you who intend to vote for this declaration, because it is certain that you will have a problem making up for yourself in the history of one day when the truth about Srebrenica, in the right way, really finds out. You mind if I mention a statement from the Potočar Memorial center. For God's sake, don't give some pathetic stories about it - victim this, victim she. Of course, every sacrifice is terrible, no matter what nation it belongs to. Every criminal should be responsible for the crime he committed. No one from the SRS had anything to do with it. This is about, ladies and gentlemen, that you, because the enemies of the Serbian people put you up to it, because you succumbed to Muslim propaganda, hastened this decision without knowing the real facts. Here, in a resolution mentioned by one of you, which was brought to the European Parliament on Srebrenica, in January 2009, paragraph E states that despite the enormous efforts, investigations so far do not allow for a complete reconstruction of the events in and around Srebrenica. So, if that's what this resolution of the European Parliament is about, which bothers you to run to accept the humiliation of the Serbian people, to announce the Serbian people to a criminal people? This story of yours that it applies only to certain perpetrators of crime, etc. simply isn't true. Well, we know what it says here. If you want each individual to answer, so do we, then here you go, the judicial authorities, the name and last name, the perpetrator, the crime, the determination, the circumstances, that someone answers, gets the proper punishment. No one in their right mind would ever mind you doing something like that, but I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, you're making a historic mistake, and you're certainly going to have a problem justifying yourself in front of history, because I'm convinced that the truth about Srebrenica will, however, be found out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u37999	Mr. Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38000	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I'll be very brief. Mr. Micunovic, the difference between you from the Democratic Party and us from the SRS is that you speak the language of the Srebrenica phrase, and we speak the language of fact. Now you're making fun of me as if, for God's sake, Muslims were killing themselves. This, Mr. Micunovic, is the book of the son of Sefer Halilovic, Semir Halilovic, "The State Secret – Top secret". So I didn't write it. On page 289 of these books are the following sentences: "The military security, as well as the State Security Service, launched several operational actions aimed at showing that Naser Oric and his group of twenty people within the enclave did terrible things to their people, such as the killings of Salihovic Hamed and Rizvanovic Nurif, and the attempted murder, as with Hakija Meoljic, Ibran Mustafa, Hamed Mustafa and other persons. In addition, the National Security Service and the Military Security claimed that Naser Oric, whose code name was Vesir, co-operated with Chetniks, smuggled goods, sold groceries for gold and money to his own people, took girls and women, and committed terror within the possessed enclave. So, in order to prove what actually happened in Srebrenica, the actions "Guber", "Hercule", "True" and "910" were launched, these are the codes of those actions, ''which were led by some combined with Military Security, and some were done on their own, within the State Security Service. '"Mr. Micunovic, these are the facts, if you have something against them, team up for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38001	The word is made by the MP Marina Ragush, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38002	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, if you allow me in this democratic parliament, I appeal to Article 104(2). We are really trying to show respect to one another. If you, Mrs. Kolundjia, have the impression that we are bringing you back to the 1990s with our own exposure and sowing fear, I think it offends the dignity of the entire parliamentary group. On the other hand, it would be just like if we reminded you of all the affairs you haven't solved since 2000, and you were part of the government. It would be just as if we reminded you of the real bosses in Serbia, for example, Miskovic, Beka, and it would be the same when we remind you of the crimes they committed in the framework of organised crime, Saric, let's see how far you go in that case. And these are crimes against this robbed people. And while we're talking about protecting the dignity of this parliamentary group, I'm going to deny you first -- we're not counting the victims here, we're trying to speak the language of fact. Let's talk logically. Why two resolutions? Why not one resolution that will condemn all crimes? We condemn every single crime. In order not to be burdened by this people, the president of this party has voluntarily gone to The Hague. Another fact, based on our operational knowledge, through the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj, has been documented, Professor Micunovic, we have filed a motion here to investigate the crime of 20 innocent Muslim victims in Zvornik. Here's a chance for that. We're now taking away your argument for what you just said. We're just trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38003	Time. Thank you. Mr. Micunović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38004	Obviously, we don't understand each other. I'm talking about one mass crime, and you're telling me that there were some who were killed and Muslims killed each other. This does not challenge the existence of crime in any way. The arguments you state, I closely follow the trial of Mr. Seselj, but Mr. Seselj himself very often admits almost all the crimes he has committed, by saying that they were committed by or representatives of the Voluntary Guard of Arkanova, or by not knowing who they are, or by those who were volunteers within the Yugoslav Army, etc. You can no longer speculate on a crime like that, yes or no. You find bodies, you know, people are alive and you see it all and you know it. What our mission here is not to try in any way to falsify history, but to ask ourselves morally, and this makes sense just so that crime doesn't happen again. In Dahau there is a great aphid who says: "Those who wish to forget will be ready to repeat." That's the thought of the great philosopher Santana. This debate exists so that we don't forget to never repeat the crime, even if it's much smaller than how it qualify. I appeal that we have compassion to talk about it, not to draw conclusions about what it will be for history. Here I hear it all the time, here we are, just in front of the wall of history, so history will... History won't look back on it. This illusion that people will stand before history, it will measure their prices, and it will ignore some, it's all mythological history. These are the facts that some historian will pick up and say – that was it, and that is the end of it. Our task is not to build the dignity of history, but to determine some facts and to repel crime, to run from crime, never to repeat ourselves. That's the point of this debate. Everything else takes us to the old debates we've had here for 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38005	The word is Mrs. Ragush. Please, let's finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38006	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, thank you for the opportunity. Professor Micunovic, I don't know what's controversial. Who is normal, and turned to humanistic principles, is not in a position to be disgusted by every crime? I really need to remind everyone, it's not your country of grandfather, so you're doing it every time someone who's loud enough to end a political scene asks you to. This nation is not your grandfather; neither is it yours nor mine. We have a responsibility to now build the future of our history and the present of the children who are coming. How? By drawing upon the generations, you give them an inheritance that this is a genocide nation and that the Serbs have committed genocide. We have a fax from Srebrenica, Mr. Micunovic, and I will use it in my time and the story of Srebrenica, and then you will see complete nonsense for the Serbian parliament to talk about what happened in Srebrenica. Yeah, we want to talk. In Srebrenica, yes, there was a crime, but let's see who committed it and in the name of who. It is now an opportunity. Then we'll come up with very unpleasant details, which directly refer to foreign intelligence. For us, not just for us, you well know, for the intellectual western public Srebrenica is the same thing as Markale, the same thing as Racak. There are criminals here against peace, who have brought us all into this situation, not the Serbian Radical Party. That's the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38007	Mr. Petar Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38008	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I could have at least one twenty minutes, and half an hour, to talk about both the victims and some other things, but what I have to say at the beginning - we can talk about the victims on any side; unfortunately, their families, we will not bring any of them back alive. For the JS MPs and the SPS-JS Parliament Club, this declaration that we have before us today is acceptable for two reasons. First, because there is no word "genocide" in the declaration. We claim and remain on the earlier claims that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, but a crime against the innocent population. Another reason why this declaration is acceptable to us is that we expect the consultations of parliamentary groups to begin on Thursday to produce another declaration, condemning all the crimes committed against the Serb people and other ethnic groups and minorities in the former SFRY's space since 1991 and beyond. But what I have to say and I can't keep quiet is that today we're talking about the consequences that happened in Srebrenica. Today we can't talk about the causes, and there's more cause. There was no crime in Srebrenica, which we are condemning today. We need to seriously, thoroughly consider what led to what happened at Srebrenica. At the same time, we must not forget the Skelanas, or the Kravica, or the Bratunac, nor forget Sarajevo, or Mostar and other towns where many Serbs lived, and today there are none. At the same time, we must not forget and go beyond what the international community has done, because in many things for the events that have happened, for the crime that took place in Srebrenica, the responsibility lies with the international community and the forces that provided Srebrenica. Where's their responsibility? Does anyone mention the Dutch troops that were supposed to provide Srebrenica and the Srebrenica people? Why doesn't anyone mention them? Many here have called for the International Court of Justice's rulings in The Hague and other verdicts. I have failed in any verdict to see that we as a Serb people have been blamed for having committed genocide. Many here quoted the definition of genocide. Anyone who is a lawyer can read from various conventions and criminal laws what genocide is, which is the definition of genocide and make sure even a freshman at law school, anyone in this country, that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. We at the SPS-JS Parliament Club will never accept that there was a genocide in Srebrenica. There's been a crime and we're judging him. It's a fact and it stands. At the same time we are looking and we will certainly vote for other crimes to be convicted. What I must also say, when it comes to the International Court in The Hague and other courts, is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, that 80% of Serbs are tried in these courts and only 20% of Croats and Muslims? Is it possible that in the civil war fought on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, only Serbs respond with 80 per cent and no blame among others? So we have to ask that question as a country when we condemn these crimes, to seek to condemn other crimes, which were committed by members of other peoples and ethnic groups. We from the JS have always judged, we will condemn and condemn every crime, no matter who it came from or who it came from, because nothing smaller is a mother crying for a son or a child for a father, whether it's a Muslim, a Serb, a Croat or someone else. At the same time, pain and pain are painful when a family member is lost. Therefore, God forbid that what happened 15-20 years ago never happens at the premises of the former Yugoslavia again. I'm a little surprised, believe me, I've been in politics for a long time, but from those past times, I'm not ashamed of my past, unlike many who want to forget that they were members of the Communists' Union and various movements, SSRN, etc., I'm not ashamed of that, but since the 1990s I've been in politics, some of the parties of the 1990s have been calling for reckonings with other people, national minorities and ethnic groups, and today they're trying, because they've changed their uniform or changed their ideology, to forget it. We who are a little over the years have long remembered it, and we cannot forget it. To conclude, unless there is a change in this declaration, it is acceptable for us to, on one condition, that in a few days or a few days, another, to which other crimes will be condemned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38009	MP Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38010	Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable fellow Members of the People, I have a first and basic question to which I expect to receive an answer either from Mr Micunovic as an authorised representative or from Mrs Nada Kolundzhija as a proposing of this declaration: is there any idea who is the creator and writer of this declaration? If it's known, and I think it's the basic order and it's supposed to be known, then name and last name. What we have in front of us on this table is 114 signatories of this declaration. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you 114, what did you sign? Are you, in fact, the victims of the moral genocide of an idea-maker of this declaration? Yes, it is. In fact, after this discussion, it will turn out that you who support this declaration are actually the greatest victims of the great delusion we have lived in over the years. What's this about? The point is that you had several proposals for declarations, it is that the SPS-JS colleagues supported a declaration proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia in 2005, condemning all crimes, regardless of religious and national membership. That is the essence of the problem of what you want to impose on the citizens of Serbia. The bottom line is we can't and we can't share sacrifices by nation and religion, and that's what you do with a declaration like this. If your conscience is clear, vote for a declaration like this. There is no parliament and there are no MPs in the parliament of a state who would vote for such a declaration that they rightly condemn the crime in Srebrenica, but remain silent at the same time and in the same declaration of their own sacrifice, the victims of their own people. If it serves you honor and your conscience is still, you 114 or 127 or 128, no matter, vote for such a declaration. What are the key words when we talk about events in the former Yugoslavia? Bol, it is common to all, regardless of whether it is a Muslim mother or a Serbian. What the declaration should bring is reconciliation. Is this how we settle in the region? We do not rest, only you allow yourselves the right to humiliate your own citizens, your own state and your own people in the name of the people. It should serve you honor, will be written in large letters of what Serbian MPs are able to do and what kind of political elite is reportedly speaking here on behalf of the Serbian people. We've been listening all day to Mrs. Hope Kolundji, who tells us that responsibility is individual, not collective, and that this declaration wants you to clear the people. In doing so, I have proved to you that you have no line on this in your own declaration, but you have in the declaration submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia back in 2005 and again in February 2010. Let me ask you another question – what is the issue in this declaration? Gentlemen of the Socialists, what is the issue in this declaration that you were prepared to support in 2005, but now you're not? You know what's controversial? The dispute is that this declaration is also a victim of the idea of unifying the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party on the other hand. You gave up Slobodan Milosevic, every piece of his policy he had during the 1990s, and you gave up Zoran Djindjic, whom I will now quote. He said the following, when he was asked a question about the victims, that he “did not think to apologize to anyone for the crimes others committed. Besides, what's an apology? I'm interested in determining personal criminal responsibility, but that must be two-way. What about the Sundays committed by Muslims, Albanians and Croats? “ We can’t even add to this statement by Zoran Djindjic, we can’t take anything away from him with what he said, but you took everything away from him with such a proposal for a declaration and let it serve you honorably. The Democratic Party of Serbia declaration makes no difference in victims between Muslims and Serbs. That document we proposed was a good foundation and a good foundation for the people in these areas to be at peace. Look at the wonders, Mr. Micunovic, you may not have known, one such resolution, similar content, has already been adopted. Do you know where? In Srebrenica, 27 MPs, of which 17 Muslims, 10 Serbs, adopted a resolution on 29 June 2005 saying: "The Srebrenica municipality is urging its citizens to condemn all crimes from 1992 to 1995 and to insist in their request that all crimes be sanctioned so that the current and future generations of the Srebrenica end will build conditions together for their better future, with a clear message that the silver tragedy will never happen again. “ Is it possible for the committees, that the Srebrenica Assembly has more brains, morals and humanity than most in this Serbian parliament? And let it, gentlemen of the Parliament, serve you honor. With a declaration like this, you take the future of this country. Don't calm down, but you are sending a clear message to the public that you are able to do everything in your power to humiliate the dignity of your own people, and let it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38011	The Kolundji hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38012	I must admit that this discussion sounds terrifying because it calls for hatred, for impatience, points to those who think differently. I'm an authorised representative of the motionor here, and I've already asked you once, I'm not someone who should be the subject of your impatience, the object of your hatred or the object of your intolerance. Here I am trying to justify the reasons why I deeply believe, as well as 114 MPs, or more, those who will vote for this declaration, that it is the interest of Serbian citizens to adopt this declaration, that the citizens of Serbia are getting it, because forever this dark veil that fell on the people of Serbia because some, hiding behind his name, have burdened him with the crimes they themselves committed. If, from the very beginning, the idea was to bring in two declarations, and immediately after this declaration, to bring about the condemnation of crimes committed against the members of the Serb people, then I don't see where this place where you can accuse us of being indifferent to our victims, that we have no sense for our own people and that what we are doing is insensitive to the sacrifices that our people have suffered. What are we different about here? We differ in a few essential things. First, what I really believe is, if you show compassion for other people's victims, you rise up and you get better. If you condemn the victims that someone has committed to another, or condemn criminals who have committed a crime against someone else, you show that you have a higher level of consciousness and understanding for what is human, but also for what is a civilization value. Here I am talking about those people who deeply believe that by pointing their finger at those responsible for this crime, Serbia has removed suspicion from the Serbian people and from all citizens of Serbia. Why do some among Serbian citizens still not see those who have distanced themselves from crime? They do not see them because there are those who deny this crime, there are those who relativize it, there are those who justify it and say it – but it is a reaction to what has been done to us. That is why we deeply believe that it is necessary by this act to remove each, and last, pinnacle of guilt from the Serb people. We really believe that, and we think that the citizens of Serbia will be freed from a heavy burden that has fallen on them, which they are not guilty of. We truly believe that the Republic of Serbia will gain credibility not only among its own citizens, but among citizens in the region and around the world, that this credibility will help and allow Serbia to fight for its interests and interests. You may disagree with me, but what you have no right to do is accuse those who believe in this. I think time will best show that we were right, not you. You can't have those who believe in this and who are willing to take this step... which is certainly not popular, it is much simpler to make popular moves. It is much simpler to count those citizens who would like to hear each other's truth and do what they would like to hear, but we are confident that it is of crucial interest for Serbia to make a move, which may not be popular, but that will benefit not only the state of Serbia in the long term, but also the citizens of Serbia. So once again, I'm asking you, I didn't want to say one word here about how many victims, how they came into existence, whether they were the result of an explanation that was heard here or not. We are here saying that there has been a terrible crime, we say - Serbian citizens are not responsible for this crime. Serbian citizens show this in the best way their representatives in parliament will say – individuals are responsible for this crime and we will condemn anyone who has committed this crime. When we talk about victims, I truly deeply believe that human pain is equal and that, indeed, national, religious, or any other sign cannot ease that suffering. That suffering that people have experienced in the past wars, we don't separate in any way. So, in no way do we diminish or insult any single victim. That's why we're not going to measure and measure the number. We're not looking for excuses. So we're not gonna tell if anything happened after something else that happened. We just want to say - every sacrifice deserves to be respected. Every member of the family deserves to be instructed by words of condolences. If we can't do this to the victims of others, no one will believe that our victims are the same. We believe that if we show that kind of compassion for the victims of others, we will gain the full moral right to ask for that same attitude toward the victims committed by our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38013	We'll be on the wire all the time. Mr. Zoran Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38014	Most of the things you just said here... Mrs. President gave me her word and Mrs. President decided on it. You can complain. For most of the things you've said here, I also think it's right with you, too, the values you've given me. But once again, I point out inconsistencies in what you say and what you publicly declare to the Serbian public with what the declaration says. Let me tell you, if you may have recognized intolerance or hate speech in my speech, as you said, I apologize. If you recognized this intolerance and hate speech in the quote by Zoran Djindjic, then you have no problem with me, and I am here claiming that you have just given up this declaration by Zoran Djindjic. If this is a national matter or a document of national importance, what are smart peoples doing, and I suppose these people's representatives are representatives of that people? They agree and make a national consensus. You've said one thing here, that you'll prove to us that time will prove that you're right and that we're wrong. Mrs. Kolundjia, don't get all worked up about the general state, the most significant, one of the most significant state and national issues. It doesn't matter if in ten years you'll be right or not, but, and to end with that, you don't respect the victims of your own people by this declaration. That's the moral divide you're in. There are no ladders, there are no fingernails that can be ripped out of that gap, from that moral fissure, you can, with any rhetoric or any story, rip yourself out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38015	Professor Micunović. And for those who may have not been informed or not been there at the beginning of the session, we are also doing the text of another declaration, condemning crimes against Serbs in the territory of the previous Yugoslavia. That in a different way we think you should condemn all crimes, Mr. Nikolic, doesn't give you the right to insult anyone. Professor Micunović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38016	There's one part about probably misunderstandings, but in one part there's bad intentions, so I'd like to explain both things here. First, for you history is a terrible judgment we stand before. For me, history is a teacher of life, an effort to learn something from it. There's some, I'd say, metaphysical difference in understanding what we're talking about. No one has given you the right and the mandate to interpret future history and to teach moral lessons, to make a moral difference, to rise up, to listen to it for twenty years. No one gives you the right to do that. For twenty years, that's what I've been talking about here, that you don't have to fight, that you should stay away from it, that the victims should be rejected, etc. I went to testify that Serbia did not commit any, or prepare, genocide. We got that verdict, that kind. Now you keep saying that exactly we want to show that there was allegedly genocide on the Serbian side, although it's not being said here. It's a prank, basically, with which you're going. This is about the next one. Do not earn (or believe that you earn) certain points. In this resolution, the declaration is only talked about the following – that there was a terrible crime in Srebrenica, that we apologized for it. But that doesn't mean, and it doesn't appear anywhere that we think there are other crimes because we said there's a crime in Srebrenica. Srebrenica is mentioned here for two reasons: because it is an international problem, which is branded as such in the European Parliament. Secondly, it's one of the biggest crimes that's ever happened. In order not to have a problem with that, morally, we need to define ourselves. Also, no one should doubt it and draw the conclusion that we value our victims less because we will talk about them on Thursday, but for the simple reason, that we know what we're talking about. Leave this moral sermon and appeal to the court of history. We know perfectly what we are doing, we are very responsible and we have defended the dignity of this country. Many who have called on history, do we know what they have led us to and what that has just meant. History is one result, which is why we here are representatives of the people, to be in the best relationship with other peoples, to make progress for this society, to come out of these difficulties in which we are in the best relationship with our neighbours and other peoples. For you there is only history, there are only people for me. There's a central difference, so we don't argue for nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38017	Time. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38018	You know, I think it's very ugly to call on Zoran Djindjic and accuse us of giving up Zoran Djindjic, because it's hard to imagine how Zoran Djindjic would talk about this today, but we're sure he would lead us in this move. What Zoran Djindjic was doing at the time was that without any backup, with your huge resistance, he extradited all those suspected of war crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38019	MP Bajram Omeragic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38020	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, on behalf of the Bosniak List, I call on all MPs of all parliamentary groups to support this declaration together, in a large number. As a citizen of this country, I believe that we should support it in as many as possible, in order to bring a new declaration Thursday, where we will be as many as possible, to condemn the crimes committed against the Serb people. History is not studied because of the past. She's being studied for the future. This declaration is important for the Bosniak people in Sandzak, that it be a message that this crime will never happen again over the Bosniaks. This declaration should be a message of reconciliation in the region between Bosniaks and Serbs, because in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, gentlemen, I did not want to talk about numbers, 95% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population are Bosniaks and Serbs. Bosniaks and Serbs should live both after Srebrenica and after the crimes they have committed, should all live in Bosnia and Herzegovina together, to continue one European path. Therefore, the Bosniak List calls on us to support this declaration as much as possible, to bring reconciliation between all and simply open a better future for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38021	National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38022	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the saddest day in Serbia since the occupation of the Republic of Serbia and the bombing of the NATO Pact, the 19 most powerful countries of the world that have collapsed into a small Serbia. Gentlemen Democrats, you will be guilty not only of history but also of God. You are referring to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, you are calling for a ruling by the International Court of Justice, and I must show you that the International Court of Justice in The Hague has reached a verdict on the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina against Serbia-Montenegro, which has no obligation to rule. As a lawyer and a lawyer I've been right for over 30 years, I've been doing this profession, and among you there are good and respected lawyers who can interpret that verdict to which you call. Serbia's obligation is not to make one of these, your pre-election pamphlets. What did this International Court of Justice in The Hague bring, and what did he say in his judgment? That Serbia is not responsible for genocide in terms of provisions of the relevant international convention. Secondly, Serbia was not involved in the project to carry out genocide, nor was it incentivising its execution. Furthermore, Serbia did not assist in the execution of genocide. What are you talking about, Mr. Democrats? You say we met today to determine the facts. Is the Serbian Parliament authorized to assume the role of a judicial authority or a court to determine the facts? Gentlemen Democrats, who at all costs want to humiliate the entire Serbian people, you must bear in mind the following: we Serbs, and the Serbian state, would be the first people in the world to spit in their faces. False witnesses, false evidence of genocide, as in The Hague tribunal in the process against Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj through false witnesses and falsified documents. But as you know, you've had a chance to see, I see some Democrats closely monitor the trial of Vojislav Seselj and can only conclude that the indictment was false, constructed for political reasons only. For the Serbian people, ladies and gentlemen, there is a presummation of innocence. How do you accuse the Serbian people of committing genocide? This crime is turning into genocide, because it relies on this verdict that you are referring to. The verdict for Serbia has no obligation. In Serbia, media manipulation is being conducted by some means of information, which is competing to announce a number of alleged victims. Ladies and gentlemen, the murder list has not been completed until today. No one is asking a question and is proposing a resolution on the killing of about 10,000 Serbs in Sarajevo alone. Serbian victims are portrayed as being soldiers, and Muslim victims are portrayed as women, children and civilians, which is absolutely not true. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the Democratic Party, there are a number of previous issues that must be identified and enlightened in order to judge the Serb people. You 114 MPs, who have been sent by the people as their representatives and personality to this House, cannot be misused by this Parliament and used to produce certain pamphlets or any pre-election brochures. This is inappropriate. So, Serbian citizens, look at the Democratic Party, where it takes you. The Srebrenica declaration is aimed at the destruction of Republika Srpska, which you must consider. In Podrinj, the axe cut Serbian heads, not trees and balvanas. Bringing the mortgage to genocide over one nation, primarily Serbian, the media in Serbia must not mention genocide against the Serb people, as if they had been ordered by the Central Committee not to speak of Srebrenica and the genocide of Serbs in the Republic of Serbia. Why is the pocket around the case? In Serbia, NGOs prevent the issue of genocide against Serbs across Bosnia, especially around Srebrenica. Ladies and gentlemen, our children should... What you, gentlemen of the Democrats, are invited to, to history. It is the history of a life teacher, but this is the most negative thing to be recorded in Serbian history. We must not let us spit on eternal Serbian history and our people must know what this means and what it leads to. By adopting a declaration of Srebrenica, Serbs would admit guilt at the highest state, official level, without any evidence and without any established facts. What did you write in this declaration? Where's your evidence? You have no proof, you are simply referring to a UN tribunal verdict, and that verdict did not oblige the Republic of Serbia to pass any laws, resolutions, any declarations, or anyone to apologize. In this is a big hoax to the Serbian people. Serbian children are entangled with bandits. You forgot that. They raped children and raped wives in the presence of children and their wives. That's what you forget. You don't have that in mind, and you won't understand at all. There was a reward in Srebrenica – whoever kills a Serb will receive 20kg of flour. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of time and also for other colleagues who are to speak, Democrats and others who have joined this wicked, shameful business in this distinguished parliament, the highest home of the Republic of Serbia, who are proposing a declaration about Srebrenica, how will you look into the eyes of Serbs and hero Ratko Mladic tomorrow, since Srebrenica will be the same as Racak? That's what you ladies and gentlemen are going around, and this is where you talk about morality. You're talking about some things here, how dignity should be confessed to someone else. And what if no republic from the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia...? You say: We expect them to apologize, too. He also apologized in Bosnia, Srebrenica and Zagreb, the president of the Republic of Serbia, and why not apologize to those in Zagreb and those in Sarajevo? You won't live to see that. You use this to rub the coward's egg on Serbs and thus deceive Serbia and the Serb people. Let the Serbian people know that the Serbian Radical Party stands behind its people and will defend the interests of Serbia and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what you think of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38023	The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. It's a bright step.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38024	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, this is certainly a difficult debate because it is difficult and the subject we are discussing – it is the murder of a large number of people, a terrible crime, and an attempt by this parliament to vote on a single resolution that will be a political stance, and not just a political one, in relation to this crime. Here, various arguments have been used, but what I regret, which is seen in a large number of exhibitions, is that there is no movement from those positions that last more than a decade in Serbia. One would expect, in 2010, that there was some evolution. Here they sit, finally, and some other people, who were not then in parliaments that supported this policy, whose crime is also one, at least indirect (in my opinion, and direct), consequence. Here, political, state, national and religious arguments are highlighted. For me personally, this is a moral question. Now I'm just talking about myself. My conscience asks me to vote for a resolution that will not only have a political character, we live in a real world, but it will be one honest confession that a terrible crime has been committed, that you condemn it and that you regret it and apologize to those directly affected by this crime. Here are the most diverse arguments and very often complete pseudoarguments. I have to admit, I have almost not attended a debate where some facts have been abused, and very arbitraryly, in connection with such a difficult subject. I'm going to say only three types of arguments that are presented that this is not called genocide and that the Assembly does not bring such a resolution, a declaration. First of all, we often hear here that the victims here are separated on a national basis and the question is – why is it done? Don't be angry, I'll say it out loud, it's hypocritical to claim something like this, because those victims are in the grave, and those victims are victims precisely because they have a nation or religious mark. To say that we separate is pointless, because they are already separated in death and, in this particular case, they were killed because they belonged to one nation, one religion, as well as in other examples that were cited, in other crimes, and also to the Serb people; it was also a element that made these people end up as terrible as they ended up. The second argument here is that one declaration should be brought condemning all crimes. That's, of course, possible. I'd just say there's probably no parliament in the world that can't bring a resolution like this every day or at any time. What normal man wouldn't be convicted of a crime? Is that what parliament has to say about committing crimes? This principle of moral universalism has one problem. You have the right to do so if you are talking about all the specific crimes that you committed before that. It seems very strange to me that such a declaration is being advocated by those who have never talked about concrete crimes here in this House or somewhere in their political public functioning. In other words, what rights did they acquire to condemn all crimes if they had not previously condemned those crimes, especially those committed in the name of our people? Finally, it is often said here that such an act of parliament is something that will condemn the Serbian people, which will bear the whole generation as a burden; here are arguments that courts are changing opinions; here we have heard the story of Jordan Brune, etc. To be clear, what's gonna happen one day, we don't know today. There is another possibility – that those who will one day sit like this in parliament will be much sharper than we are in condemning this crime and this genocide. But what matters is we're bringing it in for this time. It's clear to me that this is a declaration, I'm in favour of a sharper and much clearer declaration, approximately the maximum this coalition could hold in power today as a consensus. But for me, the following questions are asked, and I'll be much more specific. It is clear that I cannot join it and vote for it by those who have said it here many times quite clearly and openly that Ratko Mladic is a hero to them. As you know, cameras have recorded, hundreds of millions of people have seen Ratko Mladic in that same Srebrenica after she was taken, he calls it release, and his speech in front of cameras where he says he took the city from the Turks and brought it back to the Serb people. It was Ratko Mladic who said he did it on behalf of an entire nation and you have it documented. I've seen that on foreign television. It's been repeated many times. The next fact remains. This crime is very grave, it is court-qualified as genocide and it has become, whether or not someone likes it or not, I can understand people who are against it, but the fact is that it has become a symbol of war in the former Yugoslavia's space. We can't run away from that truth that Srebrenica, that crime in Srebrenica... In that resolution, the European Parliament is required that the countries do so as the day of the institution as a day of memory of the crime, which we do not otherwise have in this motion for a resolution. That's one of the reasons why I won't vote for her. I'd just say next. If what was done in Srebrenica was a heroic act, which is why the bulldozers at night carry these corpses from these primary tombs to so-called. Secondary, then tertiary? If that's something someone's proud of, why don't they just pop out, stand in front of the camera and say – that was justified? Why do these corpses hide in bulldozers, why are they transported from cancer to cancer, if anyone thinks so? I'm not talking about people who are in this House, I'm talking about those who took part in it and did it. If the main actor of it, Ratko Mladic, is proud of what he did, why is he hiding? Finally, we'll have to clear something up. What's a heroic act? To go to The Hague voluntarily, so there, as those who support Vojislav Seselj's politics say, believe it was politically brave, that he defends himself and, they say, the Serbian people? Or is it a heroic act to hide incessantly from that same court? You can't think of each other. What's heroic? Hiding or going to The Hague and fighting for some justice and truth, how do you believe in it? In other words, there is a lot of contradiction with those who attack this and say that one day we will suffer for this. Let me just say this one last time. This is where Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina are used as an argument that this is an attack, etc. There was already one exhibit here calling for a commission formed by the Republika Srpska government. I'll tell you right away that commission was formed in 2004 on July 11th. I've got something here that's amazing, I've got an objection from a fighting organization in that region, which is proposing to the District Attorney's Office in Banja Luka to press charges against those who formed the commission. It is then the political leadership of Republika Srpska. They say in this statement: "When it comes to untrue data in the report, we suggest that the Commission is selective," that commission of the Republika Srpska government "used data from the Krstic case" etc. Here are paragraphs from the lawsuit of a fighting organisation: "However, in the report of the Republika Srpska Commission, around 8,000 are operated, which is almost double what it found... “ etc. So in a report by the Republika Srpska government's commission, the figure is being handled and said (or else the report was adopted) about what happened in Srebrenica. So when you quote something that's said in Srebrenica itself, when it's quoted that you're going to have consequences, then it's good to quote the whole truth. So it is not true that there was no commission of the Republika Srpska government and it is not true that the commission did not make it very clear what had happened. For those who say it's quoted, it's not true that the number of victims is irrelevant. I'm sorry, it's against common sense. The report lists a figure of 8,000, a figure that also prompts the fighting organisation to report to the Banja Luka prosecutor's office, thinking those who wrote the report would be convicted. Once again, a very serious crime is at stake and he is qualified as a crime of genocide. It is not true that it was mentioned only in the verdict of General Krstic for the Drinski Corps. The International Court of Justice in The Hague (please, although I am not a lawyer, I read carefully) very clearly explains why he thinks it's genocide. You have a single judge's opinion that Serbia is responsible for genocide; it is not accepted, but it gives its reasoned opinion. It is very clear that it is marked as genocide and it is very clear that it is necessary to do everything possible for those who are responsible for it to, above all, be faced with justice. It is very clear there that Serbia must do much more to accept this truth in some way. I end up with this: this is one debate in which, unfortunately, political positions in many have caved in from one moral obligation to condemn a crime committed on our behalf. It was here and Christian... Or I never refer to Christianity, because this is a political debate and a secular state. Who will, of course, be free to do so, but it's terrible that those who call on Christian norms... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, they don't see that by calling on Christian norms, they have a great obligation to condemn the crime that was committed on our behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38025	Thank you. Replica? (Alexander Martinović, from the city: The name is Vojislav Seselj. It wasn't, it wasn't real. Mr. Martinovic, really nothing was directed... That was a comment, indeed, making your own views. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Vojislav Seselj is president of the SRS. There was nothing offensive, nothing vague, and there really is no basis for replication. There's really no basis for replication. It's a single policy statement at all, so we're in parliament. I ask you to develop a dialogue, to face different attitudes. That's what you do. No, there's no basis. There's a word Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38026	I thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must truly admit that today in Parliament I feel very bad, and not as an MP and as a politician, but as a man. I feel bad, because, in my deep conviction, we're bringing in one wrong declaration today. Did a crime happen in Srebrenica? Yes, it's not a dispute and it's, let's say, a terrible crime. Is this the only crime that took place in the former Yugoslavia, from that initial war in Slovenia to the bombing of the NATO Pact? It's not. Did the representatives of all nations commit crimes against the representatives of all nations? Obviously. Just by respecting that principle, which I deeply support, which my colleague Micunovic mentioned, that humanistic principle, I would like to respect it to the end. If we want to respect that humanistic principle, then this is the wrong declaration. The humanistic principle would require, and its consistent application, a resolution to condemn all crimes. Should I go further, should I condemn the crimes committed by representatives of the Croatian people to Muslims? Yeah, I think so. Or is it the other way around, which the representatives of the Muslim people did towards the Croats, so that they are not Serbs involved? Yeah, I think so. The crime has its name and name, as well as a executioner or a criminal, call it whatever you want, has its name and name. No matter what the killer covered himself with, he must be responsible and it is not disputed that those who committed the crimes should respond. Let's go a little further. Is Srebrenica the only crime committed by the representatives of our people? It's not. According to the current judgments of our courts, it is not. Well, let's just consider that. Shouldn't we be condemning these crimes? I say you should. You know, I'm gonna end up on one... I have to admit again what I said at the beginning - I feel bad. Let the Democratic Party and the ruling coalition do their job, whatever the job was called. Let the Liberal Democratic Party do its job. I assure you that the Democratic Party of Serbia will also do its job. Here on earth will be judged by the people in elections, and in heaven, God, whatever his name is, because, as my Muslim friends say, God is one. Thank you. [[Applause to the DSS MP.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38027	There's a word from MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38028	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I want to say at the very beginning is that I fully understand the atmosphere and tensions that exist today in the Republic Parliament, that is, during today's debate. It's about an extremely sensitive question about the past, but, of course, both the present and the future. Of course, it is extremely important that we have a consensus of all relevant political parties and political actors on Serbia's political scene over the political conviction of the Srebrenica crime, as well as all crimes in the SFRY area. It is therefore important that the Srebrenica declaration gets the largest possible support in the republican parliament. When it comes to the particular declaration, I would say that there are four issues that are of paramount importance. First question - what is the objective of this declaration? The second question – what else is needed after the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration? The third question - what do we expect from other people who lived in the SFRY space? The fourth question is the question of historical truth. By passing the declaration of Srebrenica, Serbia is carrying out both a moral and an international commitment -- hence, condemning the crime in Srebrenica, expressing its condolences to the victims' families, and believes it contributes to restoring trust in the former Yugoslavia's space. Serbia, in fact, shows its determination that such other crimes, which took place on all sides of the conflict, are never repeated again, because our main goal, namely the main goal of Serbia and the whole environment, is peace and stability in the region. Serbia wants to lead a policy of peace, good neighbourly relations, stability and security in the region. This declaration, as is said among other things, insists that crimes are individual, not national and determines the determination that those who committed crimes should respond and not blame the people, but individuals. In particular, we would like to point out that we believe that with the same determination and clarity we need to condemn and very numerous and mass crimes committed towards the Serbian people and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the "Storm" both in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The Socialist Party of Serbia expects such a resolution to be in front of MPs very quickly and will be brought to the republican parliament very quickly, as only by condemning all crimes can real grounds be created for restoring confidence. From a moral, political, national and state point of view, it is, in our opinion, very important. We expect the representatives of the people of the countries created in the space of the SFRY to condemn all crimes committed against the Serbian people, by adopting such resolutions in their parliaments. The truth about the Yugoslav crisis, I'd say, is neither black nor white. There are more open issues that require real and historical answers, when it comes to the causes of the break-up of the SFRY and the consequences, because only such real historical truth can be a guideline of a real relationship of what happened in the former Yugoslavia's space. This resolution is not seen as an isolated political document, but as a document complemented by a resolution that will condemn all crimes. It doesn't matter which document we adopt first, whether first or second, or second, or first, so it doesn't matter the order. These two documents are a contribution to creating international tolerance, trust and strengthening peace and stability in the region, but the facts are still controversial and only the rights of time distance, I would say, give an answer to what was actually happening, and this is not in the sphere of political evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38029	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38030	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are present today with a tragic situation. This is seen primarily by the conduct of representatives of the ruling coalition, and above all by the Democratic Party. No lawyer, whether headed by the Justice and Administration Committee, was the Legislative Committee, spoke about these issues. Instead, some other people spoke, and the question is whether they even know what international criminal law is and what crimes are under international law. This particular declaration you're submitting today, which you're proposing, applies to that. Mrs. Kolundjia, the most serious crime, by international law, is a crime against peace. That crime is more serious than genocide. If you want to talk about crimes under international law, then you have to respect the hierarchy of these crimes. The tribunal in Nuremberg, as well as the Tokyo Tribunal, tried for a crime against peace. Also, the crime is closer to being determined by the UN Declaration, i.e. General Assembly, 1974. All other war crimes, therefore, and the crime of genocide, stem from the crimes against peace. If you wanted to convict a crime, you had to go first from that most serious crime. But you don't care who started the war, who committed that most serious crime. Why? The crime was not deliberately put into the tribunal's jurisdiction in The Hague because it is known to have been carried out primarily by the United States, Germany and the Vatican by breaking the SFRY, according to renowned French geopolitical General Pierre Marie Gallo. That's what they wanted to hide those who founded the tribunal in The Hague. You've said such nonsense here that it's really scary. It also showed that you do not know how the judgment of the permanent International Court of Justice in Bosnia's case against the SCG is, but that you do not know the definition of genocide. In this declaration, as well as the advances, you are calling for genocide, although you do not mention it, because you are putting a reference standard in the text of the declaration itself and you are calling for the ruling of the International Court of Justice. The International Court of Justice did not determine whether there was genocide in Srebrenica or not. There is concrete evidence for this. This is the verdict of the International Court of Justice in the procedure you have called upon. I invite you to take a closer look at the parameters from 231 to 376, intertitled "Maskar in Srebrenica". Why do you think they called him that? What does this court say? They are calling for cases before the UN tribunal in The Hague against General Krstic and Blagojevic. They don't determine dolus specialis. Dollus specialis is, according to the convention you're referring to in your declaration, which you obviously don't know, the genocide, the essential element of the genocide crime, without which this crime does not exist. It's so-called. Genocidal intent. They only find, therefore, the International Court of Justice, that they have no reason to suspect that the UN tribunal in The Hague has proved its genocide. That's their story. You've come from one false assumption. You called for the tribunal's ruling in The Hague, which, for example, invented a new crime in 2001. According to experts from Harvard University, such as Professor Dershovic, experts from Stanford University, such as Jenny Martinez, experts from the Russian Academy of Sciences, such as Dr Alexander Mezjaev, even in the opinion of the famous William Shabas, who supports the Tribunal in The Hague, who is a professor in New York and Dublin, the court invented a criminal act that was foreseen by the tribunal statue, so-called "The Hague". "joint criminal enterprise" and introduced collective criminal responsibility, which has been banned in international law. The tribunal in The Hague, and you are referring to its verdicts, has freed many criminals from responsibility; among other things, Naser Oric. At the time of Ramush Haradinaj's trial, the DNA of the kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija was destroyed. That's what happened in 2006. The biggest exhibition on genocide against Serbs, author Bojana Isakovic, was destroyed in 2003, as Milosevic called before The Hague tribunal on materials from the exhibition. Who do you think destroyed it? You are calling for European Parliament resolutions. On 23 August 2009, the European Parliament adopted a resolution equating Nazism and communism, a direct blow to the Russian Federation. Do you want to vote that too? Why did you call on Medvedev to come here, president of the Russian Federation, for 65 years from the release of Belgrade, who was freed by the Red Army? This is what your European Parliament has brought. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly also brought a similar document in July 2009. They leveled Nazism and communism. When are you going to adopt that declaration? Even the U.S. Congress, their experts provide very precise information that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Philip Corwin, the UN's top representative at the time of the Srebrenica crime, claims there was no genocide. He makes another claim -- that the Muslim authorities tried to kill him while he was walking through Igman because of what he said. The same is said security expert Gregory Kopley, who accuses Donald Hayes, an American official in BiH and a deputy UN High Representative in BiH, of imposing a genocide term. Joseph Bodanski, a man who led a special team of U.S. Congress to fight terrorism and security issues, says that information about the 7,000 killed Muslims in Srebrenica is a total misinformation and that it was killed there, that it killed hundreds of people. What are you forgetting, Mrs. Kolundjia? In 1991, Aleksandra Zec, a 12-year-old Serbian girl, was killed in downtown Zagreb. You won't mention it. Slobodan Stojanovic, an 11-year-old Serbian boy from BiH, was killed in 1992, the Muslims took out his heart. Milica Rakic, a three-year-old, was killed in 1999 in the aggression of the NATO Pact. A monument on Tashmajdan stands defiled, a monument to children killed in NATO aggression. For a few years, it's been defiled, you didn't want to rebuild it, and here you're telling us about the crimes. In the end, remember number 3,827. So many Serbian women, children and men were killed in Srebrenica and the environment, while the Serbs of no woman, no child, were killed in Srebrenica. Remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38031	The word is from Ambassador Željko Ivanji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38032	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about genocide in a formal legal sense, states cannot be held accountable for genocide and that is absolutely clear. For genocide, an individual acting either by order of a state or by order of a government that was at that time present in that State may be responsible for genocide. In the International Court's ruling, there is a clear definition -- that genocide was committed, but in a limited area of territory. That's very clear in the verdict. If you are malicious, you can abuse that verdict and come to a completely sick conclusion that Republika Srpska Krajina is a genocide, which is certainly not the case. We heard that thesis from the outgoing President of the Republic of Croatia, and this thesis has in some way triggered what I call the tips of the past, where I count, among other things, the man I mentioned earlier. However, it speaks enough of why the Srebrenica resolution should be reached. That man also said that the Rabbit family killer was pardoned, because he showed where the ones he killed were buried. We're surrounded by graves today, and the killers are at large. Fortunately, in Serbia they were not pardoned, although this could have been the outcome of our unfortunate history from the end of the 20th century. Why is the past still on the streets of our cities today, sweetly beautiful boards with street names? Because we're not clear and we don't know what's black or what's white. Then the question is, why is this happening to us? Because the greatest criminal in the history of the Serbian people, before he separated the children, the old, the powerless and the women, sending them to the site, said it was revenge for what the Turks did in our premises. He also said that this is a continuation of rebellion on the breath. The only thing he was right about was that he was the breather who kept us captive for years, as well as those who inspired that crime. Unlike Mesic, thank God, we don't need to show the grave. We know where the graves are and we will not pardon the beasts, but we will send them where they belong, and give the victims of Srebrenica peace after 15 years of rest. Should Serbia expect anything in return? Nothing but peace. There is no greater national interest in us than peace in these areas. It is not a Serbian country where Serbian graves are located, but where others bow in respect of the sacrifice that Serbs laid, regardless of the state border or entity division. The victims we suffered were those who defended their house, their family, their children, their parents. The victims we suffered were Bosniaks from Srebrenica. Our victims are also those who live condemned to life with the memory of the victims, people who also lived with the ideal, in a way that we often idealize ourselves as a heavenly people. I'm going back to the beginning of my speech, asking if things should be seen as black and white? Yes, at least we owe it, because today in Serbia there are those who confuse the public. Yesterday on the board "Ratko Mladic" in their hands was a sweetly beautiful Bulevar Zoran Djindjic; for them yesterday, Ratko Mladic was a hero, not a criminal, and the European Union was a dark fairy. When you relativize things like that, someone might think – I don't care. Well, you don't care! So I ask, is Srebrenica white or black and is he who called for revenge to the Turks a war hero or a lunatic? Has the Serb soldier or anyone who calls on the Serbian state ever supported the principle of "eye for eye, tooth for tooth"? Do our mothers swear the mothers of those criminals, wanting the same fate for their children, like that fate suffered by their children? I don't know a mother like that. We cursed Drina, cursed God, often cursed the sun, but we never selectively separated the old and the children to kill them in the name of the Serbs. Should we be proud of Srebrenica and be silent about the inscriptions “knife, wire, Srebrenica”? Silver is black, that niggers can't be. In that black wandering, those who are victims of the hands of criminals, those who are unrelent and who are alone disappear. How long does this pain last in us? We have no right to turn Serbia grey, which is between black and white. We don't have the right to leave any doubt that we're going to question for years or, for example, to be restrained on this matter. In Srebrenica, a limited part of the territory was declared genocide, which was ruled by the International Court of Justice, a court against which we defend our Kosovo, a court of trust and trust. The mention of genocide itself has become an irrelevant issue in the resolution. I think we devalued this notion, at least in a formal sense, but it's much more important that we all be aware that the genocide mentioned in that verdict was carried out by the criminal who dragged us into a shameful story, by believing he was doing it on our behalf, 15 years ago, when Serbia was silent. Then we were a minority, we were a handful of students, random passersby, and today, thank God, most, whose voice is heard and heard where it should be heard. Serbia must move on, it must be reputed and a responsible state. For us all our sacrifices are because we died in the history of one and the other, because we often killed each other; and that also occurred to us, but it never occurred to us to crush others. Unfortunately, at the end of the 20th century, it occurred to someone. Today we want to live, and no national movement or knowledge of historical injustice or resistance to criminal aviation can make me a better father or a bigger Serb than to wish me no other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38033	MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. Your parliamentary group has four minutes and forty-five seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38034	In its proposal for a declaration on the condemnation of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, as the declaration is called, the Democratic Party of Serbia has made it clear, among other things, that Serbia, and the very Serbian people, because in the recent history of that Yugoslavia suffered the greatest casualties and the greatest victims, must be the first to condemn all the crimes that took place in the 1990s. It doesn't matter what faiths are, what nations are those who are victims, but every executioner, every executioner, every executioner has to be brought to justice, to be processed. It's as clear as day. That's why I don't understand the need for some MPs of the ruling coalition to honor us not to distance ourselves from crime. Every crime, was committed on one person, on one married couple, on one family, or perhaps it was a mass execution, no matter which side, we strongly condemn. The Srebrenica municipality didn't double the victims as you do today. There were words about it, and I must repeat that tonight you turned out to be more Catholics than the Pope, greater Srebrenica than the Srebrenicas themselves, who on 29 June 2005, brought to the session SO Srebrenica, which, among other things, says that the crimes that took place between 10 and 19 July 1995, were particularly condemned, but at the same time the same SO appealed to all its citizens to condemn all the crimes from 1992 and 1995. Why did the writers of today's declaration, whose names we cannot possibly find out, not consult the authors of this resolution before they came to this, unhonorable job to me? You must be aware, whatever you think, most citizens of Serbia are not in favour of bringing this and this declaration. I am very happy and proud that I am not among you today, among those who will vote for the adoption of such a text of the resolution. You're dividing the people again, you're participating in divisions again. You have spoken, I will remind you, that you will make every effort to bring this declaration as many MPs as possible to vote for it, or, if possible, by consensus. You didn't do it today, because you're ossions and boast, because you think only your truth is true, but let them judge the generations. In Serbian history, there is no king or emperor, one single, no president, any one who tried to fake the Stigma of crime or genocide on his people and his generations, which is perhaps even more important. That's what we've got here now. I must remind you once again, as in that debate about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, that the one in whom you are declaring your apologies today has said that no apology comes to his mind, that he cannot apologize for the acts he has not done and that apologies must be two-way, that other nations must come from these places. Last time I quoted, now I can say that I... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Paraphrased Zoran Djindjic. What to say about the honor and morality of those who chose to sunbathe in Opatija on 24 March this year,... (President: finish your sentence.) )......................................................................................................... who chose to sail the Adriatic Sea cannon on the Croatian coast, not to be with the pain and grief of all those families who were killed, whose loved ones died in the NATO pact bombing? Where's your morale, your honor?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38035	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38036	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to begin with the words of Edward Yashinski, one of the men who survived the Holocaust to die in a communist prison. He said: “Do not be afraid of the enemy; he can only kill you; neither is he afraid of friends; he can only betray you; he is afraid of the indifferent, for they can enable traitors and murderers to live peacefully around us. “ At the beginning of thinking about everything that has happened and what we need today to adopt this resolution, it should be remembered that in Serbia, democratic forces have never received half the support of the population. It should be remembered that never, even today, an option that sincerely advocates a break-up with the past has not been given half-assed support. Thus, many compromises had to be made, but with these things there is no compromise. That's exactly why it didn't work out in what I was talking about in 2000. I was talking about how it is infinitely important for Serbia to be declared criminal organisations, and thus banned, the SRS, the SPS, the Yugoslav Left, the Serbian Unity Party, and thus to break up with the past. Some say - it is not democratic to abolish parties. I ask the question, then why was the National Socialist German Workers' Party Adolf Hitler abolished, then why were all those parties that led to the deaths of their population and yet posted their results in the democratic election? Because there are things democracy doesn't allow. Democracy does not allow the denial of the Holocaust, democracy does not allow it to play with fates and people. There are things you can't vote on. It cannot be voted on whether this parliament, if it wants to take down at least part of it, I repeat, at least part, responsibility from Serbia for the terrible crimes committed in Srebrenica, can be played with one such document. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has three times so far asked for this document to be adopted: for the first time in 2005 in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and in 2007 and 2009 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here comes the day when the conditions for such a declaration are met before the MPs. On 26 February 2007, the International Court of Justice in The Hague described the crime as genocide. "The official organs of the SRJ," I quote, "have not planned or committed genocide against Muslims in Srebrenica in July 1995, but have violated their obligations to prevent genocide and punishment for perpetrators. “ Whose obligation was it, gentlemen, to do so? I'll tell you, whoever signed the Dayton Agreement just a few months later. It was the obligation of Slobodan Milosevic, the obligation of the same government and the same government that pushed Serbia into chaos, in horror, into everything we need to talk about today. If there were strength in 2000, if there were power to break up with all of this, to ban this party I was talking about, to carry out lustration, which in Serbia is always too soon, until it's too late, if it were done, today we would have a completely different situation and we wouldn't have to conduct this terrible discussion at all, this hypocrisy that bids the number of victims, where the question is asked -- why not mention Serbian victims? I will tell you why not to mention it in this declaration by the Serb victim – because the Serbs were victims, and we are the Assembly in which they sit. So they're not gonna make a declaration about themselves, are they? What are we going to do about ourselves, how they did to us, and what did others do to us? It is necessary to remove shame from what has been done in our name and in the name of this land, even these congregations. It should not be forgotten, some say – what does Serbia have to do with it? There's, say, paying Ratko Mladic's salary during Srebrenica. There's, like, a connection to that, because they're after that. democratic changes -- which I suspect were democratic, and certainly were not changes in terms of those who wanted to -- for another two years, Republika Srpska officers were paid from Belgrade. When, as a member of the DOS presidency, I asked Kostunica what he had to say about 1,600 officers paid from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's budget, I got an answer – for your malice, and what you know is too much. That was the answer, at the time, the man who's running this group of patriots today, who forget one important thing. You know, gentlemen, here's the question of who's Serbian and who's not. I'm a Serb, and Ratko Mladic is a mass murderer. I am a Serb, and Radovan Karadzic is a war criminal. I am a Serb, and Biljana Plavsic has accepted responsibility and regretted the genocide in which she participated, and that genocide she said next – so what, six million Serbs will go missing again? My question is, what will it remain for? Who has the right to bid on millions of human lives like that? Just the ones I'm ashamed of today. I'm ashamed that they were sitting in this same congregation, some of them, which, day and day, is sitting in this congregation by someone whose place is, to say the least, in prison. The reason is very simple – that it is not... Why did you recognize each other, gentlemen? Why did you recognize yourself, slowly, I'm not finished yet. So what we're looking at right now is just one thing: to watch again the attempt to mask Serbian shame with Serbian victims. Srebrenica is a Serbian disgrace, and after adopting this resolution, the truth about Srebrenica and this condemnation of everything that has happened must (and it must become part of a special law) enter the history textbook and the school's teaching programme in Serbia, in order to decantise and lustration in Serbia. Without it, Serbia has no future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38037	Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how serious is the ruling coalition that proposed this document now best confirmed by Mr Nenad Canak. It is a coalition in which one party of the ruling coalition, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, seeks to ban another party of the ruling coalition -- the Socialist Party of Serbia. To me, Mr. Canak, it is not clear one thing, why are you, in the declaration that you will vote for, in favour of co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, if already, before any verdict, for you, Ratko Mladic is a criminal? Then we don't need courts, then we don't need co-operation with The Hague tribunal, then we don't need judicial institutions here in the Republic of Serbia, or anywhere in the world. Then We will ask you, Nenada Chanka, who is after you, Mr. Canak, a Serb, and who is a criminal; who is a great criminal, and who is a patriot; who is a traitor, etc. So whoever you put on the head of the mark that he's a criminal or he's not a criminal, then that's the historical truth. I ask you, Mr. Canak, in what democratic state in the world, in which EU Member State, anywhere, can you say for anyone that he is a criminal without a relevant verdict? Then we don't need a court. Then we shouldn't cooperate with judicial institutions. Then the declaration is unnecessary. Then it's pointless what we're doing today. I'm surprised at one other thing. I listened here today, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, about how MPs of the ruling coalition can't sleep nights because of the pain they feel about the alleged victims of the Srebrenica genocide. I ask you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, do you feel pain, pity, grief for the citizens of Serbia that you have systematically robbed since 2000? You're top hypocrites. Basically, you don't care about Muslims from Srebrenica and those who strike today, say, in Sremska Mitrovica, in Mitros, strike hunger. All you care about is making an impression on your Western masters that you are supposed to be "fancy" as you are democratically oriented, European-oriented, etc. Basically, you all don't feel pain, pity for anyone. If you were really who you think you are, you wouldn't be working for the citizens of Serbia, you wouldn't be doing Serbia for ten years all of what you're doing right now. Take the paper and the pen, draw the line, and say – from 5 October 2000 until today we have done it, that and that. If you find any good things, say we know that too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38039	Time. MP Velimir Ilic. First Velimir Ilic had a replica and appeared before you for the replica, to your previous match. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38040	Dear President, I can no longer tolerate, as a People's MP, nor New Serbia, and I think a large group of MPs here, that some people who have been in this House for years and years have been making chaos, riding on, destroying this Serbia; they are doing what they want, saying what they want, and no one can warn them. They yell, they threaten, they shout. So take a little bit of care, so it's not too late. Don't let some rot in here that come and rot in this House, and hopefully they'll be out of here real quick, threatening someone will be in the cemetery, someone in jail, someone like this, someone there... Everyone's gonna be somewhere, but he's gonna be safe where he said he was, the one who was talking. So it's really pointless to talk about this anymore. We're talking about one very important thing here today. We want all crimes united and convicted. It's a simple thing. Murderers are murderers, they must be punished. The crime must... simply, to honor the families of the dead, regardless of which nationality they were. We think they don't need two declarations, they need one declaration. Why do we make another one on Thursday, make another circus? Who's the author of all this, that this is how it happens? Here, now the authors appear themselves. They're taking it from themselves. Who wrote this declaration on the agenda today? Who's going to write there in two or three days? So, what do we do? Are we going to discuss this again? Is it necessary to share again? Is it necessary to discuss with people who cannot agree with themselves, who do not exist politically? So this is pointless. Please protect us from the people who came here to provoke, to insult us. He's a great god. He punished them, and he won't be long. It won't be long. He can't. You see you've begun to crown yourself. You've got a system failure. You can't stop it. Do you know what a rink is when it comes? It's hard to stop, and you're skating into the abyss. We don't have a chance to stop you, we're trying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38041	Time's up. Mr. Slobodan Samardzic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38042	Article 104. Madam Chairman, I think that you should have reacted to the untruth here, to a sentence of a speaker who said that Serbia did not execute a denunciation. This means that Serbia was a Nazi state and is still a Nazi state. It is not necessary for MPs to discuss this, because it is nonsense, but the speaker of parliament should protect not only this parliament, but also this state, which can be so easily charged. That's not just what I'm saying. It's said very well, because there's such a thesis in certain obstructive, propaganda circles in the West. It is imported into this country through various groups that receive money for it and occasionally poison this public opinion and this public of such things. The fact that someone is receiving money to declare Serbia a Nazi country – it is a country that has not yet made a denunciation – it is a matter of moral honor and honor for these people. They don't have morals or honors, they just have a deep pocket that needs to be filled to express themselves like that. However, if such words fall in this House, those are difficult words. You must indeed react because it is an unusual thing – that the MP of this Parliament, who, like all of us, enjoys all rights, and not only here but also in all this country, muds and insults not only this people and this Parliament, but also this state. It's high time to get in the way of such arbitraryness, nonsense and lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38043	Time. I ask all the messengers to address one another with respect and to really take care of the content of what they say. Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38044	Thank you. No, I'm not the one who's gonna see and decide if he's a criminal. To me, Ratko Mladic is a criminal because of him, my entire state of Serbia is sitting in prison, on the indictee's bench, because that coward will not surrender. That's why he's a criminal, which he could shoot at tied people and order the liquidations, and he can't face it. That's what we call a coward in Novi Sad. These are people who don't deserve, not respect, not protection. Then who's protecting him? He's protected by accomplices. I think that explains some of the replicas and remarks we heard afterwards. As for Mr. Ilic, I didn't understand which of my words he recognized himself, whether a criminal, if anything else, so I can't answer him. I have to tell Mr Samardzic that this denacification I'm talking about... Have we forgotten what Serbia looked like in the 1990s? Have we forgotten what the average citizen's life in Serbia looked like in the 1990s? Have we forgotten that, for example, in Vojvodina, people were expelled from their homes by bombs, and the fists were paramilitary units, under the command of the same Slobodan Milosevic and his galleaters? Have we forgotten that 40,000 citizens of Croatian nationality were expelled from Vojvodina just because they were Croats? They were expelled under the pretext – there, the exchange of goods, the exchange of real estate. We have already listened to such and similar preferences in this congregation. Do you notice how suddenly there's a fling and an interest in what I'm saying? Because there is one expression in Vojvodina for that – the most silly pig is scratched.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38045	Mr. Samardzic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38046	Dear People's MPs, I count myself to be the last man in this country who wishes and wishes to defend the regime of the 1990s. There are many more invited here for such a mission, but they sit in the ruling coalition. So you'd have to discuss this out of these rooms. So that's one problem that doesn't concern this Parliament. But, a team before, he should not be brought into this parliament. In any case, in the 1990s, which I spoke publicly about, and I have no reason to build now, it wasn't a Nazi country. It was one situation shared by every country that was the successor of the former Yugoslavia: first Slovenia, which deleted people from lists and today does not return them, so citizens, citizens of Slovenia, through Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was in war, Serbia, Montenegro etc. Only Macedonia can be amnesty from that. It was a general situation. Serbia was no different from the others in those years. To tell Serbia that she was a Nazi is one of the most common rhetorical exaggerations and experiences. To say that Serbia has not dedicated to date means to establish a continuity between the 1990s and these two thousands. You're in power today, you're in command. But it seems to me, it can only be done with Nazi methods.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38047	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica. Velimir Ilic, replica, then Mr. Canak. I hope we end up in a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38048	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, regardless of what we from the Serbian Radical Party are essentially different from the party of Nenada Chanka, I, Mr Chanka, will not insult, although he has offended all the MPs by calling us by an extremely inappropriate name, simply, Mr Chanak, I want to speak with you in a language of fact. I don't know if you've read the European Commission's report on the state of affairs in Serbia, or the situation in certain areas of social life? Believe me, I have found no place in this report that says that we cannot join the European Union because Ratko Mladic is not in The Hague. These reports say something else -- we can't go to the European Union because you're corrupt because you're stealing, because internal and foreign policy is dictated by tycoons and mobsters, because the laws in this parliament are being passed in the way that they correspond to two or three people who in a suspicious way have acquired their wealth, because you have a pretentious, irrational, party state administration, because our country is expensive, because you have completely destroyed the independence of judicial institutions, because people can't be treated in Serbia if they don't have money. So that's what I've come across in the European Commission's reports. Of course, it is always easy for you to say that Ratko Mladic is responsible for Serbia's failure to join the European Union. Believe me, Mr. Canak, where good luck that's the case. This would mean that in this Serbia, our common homeland, everything is great, that we have solved all the problems, that our economy is booming, that people don't have to jump off their balconies to solve their social problems, that they don't have to cut their fingers and that the only problem this country has is whether Ratko Mladic is in The Hague or elsewhere. Unfortunately, Mr. Canak, the reality you've created along with your coalition partners in the last ten years is quite different from the reality in which you live. It's nice to you. You bear no responsibility for anything; you come to the Assembly when you have to vote; you debate by attacking your coalition partners and you think you have solved the problem. Unfortunately, you're not. Serbia is an unhappy state, not because of Ratko Mladic, but because of you, because you are incompetent, because you are corrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38049	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38050	First, I would really like to invite us back to what the subject is, and the topic is Ratko Mladic. It is true that for Serbia, the condition of all conditions, when it comes to European integration, is Ratko Mladic. So it is not true that Serbia is assessed negatively in the fight against corruption, that it is negatively assessed in its European integration and in the transformation of society, on the contrary. We are getting recognition that this process in Serbia is going faster than it has gone to any other country. We are given recognitions for the many reforms we are carrying out in society and the results we are achieving, but what is, unfortunately, the stone on Serbia's neck on the road to achieving its primary goal is precisely the crimes that have been committed and is exactly who is responsible for this crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38051	MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38052	Madam President, once again I warn you to draw attention to some MPs not to insult MPs, MPs' groups, because they have no reason to. There's nothing behind them. These MPs have ruined this Serbia, ruined Vojvodina. Some present themselves as the saviors of the Vojvodina. It's hard to live in Vojvodina, harder than ever. In Vojvodina, people fight to survive. There's something small about Novi Sad, and he's in a big crisis these days. The Duchess owes so much, so many duties in Vojvodina. The question is who will repay it and pay, how and in what way, if people who have no hearing lead the macro-economic policy of Vojvodina, if the duchy leadership through the "Metals Bank" worked with the biggest crime in the state, if the duchy leadership destroyed all the funds that were transferred to fix the river, for the Pančeva Bridge, for a series of projects that were to be done? They hired their like-minded; if they hadn't done it, they wouldn't have two members. Therefore, the Vojvodina are written hard days. All that is happening these days is the result of a negative selection in Vojvodina, which has completely dragged Vojvodina astray along with promises – you will get the statute, you will get an advantage, jurisdiction. Can you live on it? Can a child be given part of the government of the Republic of Serbia for breakfast in the morning? It can't be safe. In Vojvodina, there is also misery, misfortune and misery and great problems. The gentleman should cover his ears. He also began to write about this plain, which he systematically ruins and makes of it his private entertainment site. He's having fun, he comes here to parliament when it's a vote, and that would have to stop. He's telling us about the declaration. He tells us about how Serbia needs to be regionalised. He runs some board over there for the administrative regions. It's a disgrace to Serbia. Therefore, please from the ruling coalition, do something. If your ideologist is Nenad Canak, it's hard on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38053	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38054	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, just to be clear about something: this is not about the debate on corruption, about the destruction of the economy, about everything you said, but about the crime committed in Srebrenica 15 years ago, for which General Mladic is responsible. I think it's very important that we stick to the subject. I know you're indisposed to the truth, but precisely because last time you took my name in your mouth, you slandered me that I had no idea what kind of property, even though my property was available on the sites that were scheduled for it, and you said I'd gotten it all without a day's work experience, I brought you a photocopy of my work book, in which you have 23 years of my internship. Then you will see to what extent the half-truths you operate on puts you in a position not to tell the truth. Take care of it. As for Mr Samardzic and the denaciation, I will remind you that it was Kostunica who gave refuge to Radet Markovic and Nebojsa Pavkovic and other greats of the country's national socialist time and gave them a chance to destroy a series of evidence of their crimes and the crimes of the regime they served. That's why you're all hoping that lustration won't happen. That's where you're very wrong. The crimes you've committed never go out of date. As for Mr. Ilic, I really think he needs help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38055	Gentlemen, there are really no more conditions or reasons for replication. You told each other everything. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I may have done nothing but hurt the Rules of Procedure because I gave you my word and because you have flooded the contents of this session with replicas. Mrs. Ragush has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38056	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, and above all, Serbian citizens, until you decide how uniquely and authentically you interpret the Rules of Procedure, what is more than interesting to me, Mr. Canak: you have achieved 23 years of employment in a national socialist period, have survived national socialists, worked and not been in prison?- I'm sorry. You'll have to explain that one day. Then how did you characterize this regime as a national socialist? Mrs. Kolundjia, we're a little off topic because Mr. Canak was talking about lustration, saying we should be banned. So we live within a day, Mr. Canak, when you will launch a procedure for the ban on the Serbian Radical Party, in order to finally give the citizens of Serbia material proof of the national socialist period of DOS rule. Why? We are sitting in this parliament and the SRS parliamentary group is talking, even on such sensitive issues, because you have turned the majority's decision on what should be like democracy, so we have introduced a party that has not participated in the elections. So it is the biggest shame for democracy in Serbia from the end of the 20th and early 21st centuries. Yes, this is not a topic of crime and corruption, but it is not an obstacle for Ratko Mladic to enter Europe, it is an obstacle to the US demand and the US launch of the "Balkan Warrior" action. We are waiting for you to finish the "Balkan Warrior" campaign, because if you implement it to the end, you fall out of power, because there is no one who hasn't been bought and funded by that dirty money. About that later. That's why we're a little bit, but just a little bit, off topic. The logical question is, we haven't received an answer yet, why are we here in the Serbian Parliament talking about something that the parliament in Srebrenica has condemned before us? This is a topic for the Republic of Serbia, not for Serbia. The second question is – why two declarations? Who's sharing the victims? Serbian Radical Party or you? Why not one? Here's the answer, the answer is very simple: a few months ago I also told you, we were in a place where you are, and we know what it looks like to face a "merciful angel", we know what the requirements for Rambui were. You've got a replacement. That replacement is called the Progressive Party. If you hadn't accepted this condition, you would have fallen from power. If that's not the case, give me proof. We didn't accept Rambui, we fell out of power, we got lustration in 2000. You may not admit it, Mr. Canak, but then and from that moment on, the whole Serbian political summit ended in strange ways, most of them in front of The Hague. Those who have not accepted (and here are present, so to hear if they will say so) that Kosovo is independent, in May they went to the elections, they fell out of power. You accept that we are talking about this declaration, that it is publicly apologising and admitting that Serbia, or that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica. That's the whole truth. Serbian citizens should remember this. This is the last weekend of the Easter. With intent, those who have joined in a crime against peace agree to choose the most sensitive periods and most sensitive dates for the Serbian people. If you'd run this story in a different way, you'd have condemned all the crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, ladies and gentlemen, you'd have a consensus. Why was it very important to point out Srebrenica? Because Srebrenica is the same thing as Markale, the same thing as Racak, and some excuse for the most disgusting crimes committed in the 20th and 21st centuries. You can argue with my political position. You've made your political point. So what we need to remember is what we leave as our legacy this day. Very soon, therefore, time will show who is behind the events in Srebrenica, what were the demands for this to be said in the Serbian parliament, and that will be a legacy for the future of this call. I'm not surprised, Mr. Canak. He wanted to hang in the Terraces at the time of his political inexperience. He also wants to ban political parties from working. It's part of the ruling coalition. So I'm also not surprised that we're talking about this today. Ladies and gentlemen, however, what is very important to us, the Serbian Radical Party, even if you bring us to the level of movement, and then we will say the same, is that as the ancestors of our descendants, we leave some sign of opposition to this Western occupation. If that's the price of staying in power, then it seems to me we've paid too much. [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38057	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38058	Thank you. So, I'm advertising the injury you did right before the previous speaker's speech. You said, in fact, that you were assessing, on the basis of the fact that some MP had previously requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that you did not do any harm to the Rules of Procedure, and therefore you do not give him a word. And in Article 100, paragraph 3, says: “The President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, gives the word to the MP who points to the violation referred to in Article 1, ” means the violation of the Rules of Procedure, “right after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, with the presidents of the parliamentary groups having the advantage. “ So, unlike your overly restrictive interpretation of Article 101, when you do not give a replica, although I must put my hand on the heart, during this debate you at least used these arbitration, it was quite correct, with some exceptions, you cannot have any arbitration in interpreting Article 3. So when someone asks for a word to hurt the Rules of Procedure, you give it to him. There's no discussion here. You can't judge, based on the fact that someone raised the Rules of Procedure and asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, did you break the Rules of Procedure? Let a man, a lady or a gentleman of the Parliament tell us what he thinks. If he's wrong, if you think he abused it, you'll tell him. It's your right to the Rules of Procedure, and that's what's gonna end. You can even take away his word and stop him from explaining in these three minutes that he has, if it's obvious that it doesn't lead to that goal. Although I think that another chairman, who is not here now in the presidency, has been using the right of the presidency countless times by not letting the man finish one, first, initial sentence. That's what you didn't do, though, you don't do it. The fact that we're tired, that time is passing, that the debate has been delayed, which has a lot of replicas, which I thank you for, because it's the point of debate, the debate, it doesn't give you the right to lose your temper at some point and to say that you simply don't give a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38059	Time. It's obvious there's an MP who's losing his nerve, and it's unlikely I'm the one. Secondly, I wanted to tell you that the MPs have come forward for the replicas. The third round of replicas is over and I've assessed that they've cleared up. You were the only one to raise the Rules of Procedure and you got your word immediately when Mrs. Ragush finished. So, I'm taking a lot of care, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: That is not true. ) If you are not satisfied, would you like to make a statement in the voting day? Do you want to make the Parliament's statement in the voting day? Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. According to the Rules of Procedure, Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38060	Madam President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. A colleague of Marina Ragush spoke a little. It's just fascinating, colleague Ragush, with which you're calmly saying something monstrous. You're equating Markales, Racak and Srebrenica. It's a fiction for you. For you, the Bosniaks seem to have killed themselves and depicted it as some kind of crime. My dear and dear colleague, are you at least a little ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38061	Proposer's representative, Mrs. Kolundjia. According to the Rules of Procedure, who wants to, please? There's no basis for replication. [[Marina Ragush, from the place: I'm mentioned and I want a replica.]] He has Mrs. Hope Kolundji's word. (EXCLAIMS IN THE O.R.: According to the Rules of Procedure!) )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38062	The need for Serbia to even discuss this issue has been questioned here. So here is the question – why are "crimes and crime in Srebrenica" a topic for Serbia? I think you might be able to ask your boss who's in The Hague, constantly defending himself that some crimes are responsible for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's military. You need to know that's what the world thinks. And yes, if we do not fence ourselves from it, if we say – no, no one is, the state is not responsible, Serbia is not responsible among other things and by saying "the crime is responsible for individuals, not the institutions of the state", so we will remove responsibility from Serbia. And you have a serious problem explaining that this is not a topic for Serbia, for your boss. [[Applause to MP DS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38063	Gentlemen, I'm really asking you to get back to the subject. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is announced first by Mrs. Ragus, so Mr. Aligrudic, then Mr. Martinovic. Please, I'll impose sanctions in case you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure by abuse of this institute. He's got Mrs. Ragush's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38064	Of course, Article 104, paragraph 2, has been injured since I called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. To be honest, I think I had the right to a replica because I was directly mentioned in the wrong context, but it doesn't matter. What my colleague Omerovic said really doesn't stand. First of all, you can't attribute it to me, especially to me, and not to the SRS MP's group, "that with punitive calmness he can talk about terrible crimes," so first of all, that's not right. What was my intention is to talk about all the crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Let me, please, my political position is – yes, there was a crime in Srebrenica, but let's talk about what led and who is behind this crime? You didn't listen well to me today, then. It's absolutely certain, it's also my political stance, and I don't see the need for you to flaunt my political position in such a way -- yes, it is Markale and Račak. Someone needed Srebrenica, believe it – the Serbian people, absolutely certainly not, because by now we would have known the exact name and last name, seen the satellite footage, had the exact number, and we would have known what intelligence services did all three incidents. I'm really sorry for all the civilian victims, but I pulled that argument under your feet, because the SRS, the defense team Dr. Seselj, applied to this prosecution, asked for -- to investigate the crime of 20 Muslim civilians in Zvornik. So you have no basis to speak that way, dear colleague. Every victim deserves his own mention, but every crime has its own signature! This signature we're leaving today... (President: Time. ) [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38065	He has the word of Ambassador Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38066	You've injured Article 104, I'll explain it very briefly. Article 104 says MPs must address one another with respect. I may have made some mistake in the previous presentation when I was talking about lost nerves, I admit, it's too late, but it doesn't give you the right, especially from the chairman's post, to yell at the MP, because before you can easily prove to yourself that I was right about what I said to you the previous time, which is that there was an application for the Rules of Procedure and that you refused to apply to the Rules of Procedure the moment you estimated that you shouldn't give a word. There, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38067	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. I ask you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, is it the essence of this session that representatives of the ruling coalition are free, without any restrictions, to present the most incredible lies, insults and slanders at the expense of Dr Vojislav Seselj and SRS, and that you simply do not want to intervene? Mr. Meho Omerovic, whom Miss Marina Ragus has not taken into her mouth at all, insults, apparently you, my colleague, for no reason at all, and you do not intervene at all. I could now tell Mr. Omerovic, let's say, perhaps I, Mr. Omerovic, as a Serb, suffered from the obituary signed by the president of your party, which was published in Sarajevo's Liberation when Ali Izetbegovic died – "my dear president", because that dear president is responsible for the fact that several thousand Sarajevo Serbs were killed, and I didn't say that. It turns out that in this National Assembly when Serbia and the Serbian people are to be defended, then don't speak, and when it comes to attacking people who are seven years in The Hague -- then everything is allowed. So I ask you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, if Vojislav Seselj is truly guilty, if the greatest criminal on the globe is on earth, how is it possible that in seven years, the prosecution can't prove it? If all is clear, if there are facts, if there is no doubt that Vojislav Seselj is responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, that we Serbs have done nothing else for 50 years but dreamt of committing genocide against Croats, Muslims, Albanians, etc., so I ask why Vojislav Seselj is not convicted? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38069	Time. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38070	Since I've been asked how I've had a job internship during national socialism, well, well, I've been working. I've been arrested more times than I can remember, and how I survived such a period, so you know, you can ask some of my other friends, say Slavko Curuvija, Ivan Stambolic, my friends from the SPO who were killed at the Ibaric Master's, you can ask them what it looked like to survive in national socialism! And the fact that I wanted to hang on to the terraces -- it was condicional, and your president spoke very clearly about the slaughter of rusty spoons, asked for the retortion to drive out the citizens of Serbia's nationality, threatened everything and everyone, pulled a gun on people, etc. You don't remember that? Your selective mind is very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38071	National MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38072	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express one feeling of discouragement after today's debate, which certainly painted what it is, all that has been said in the past 15 years in Serbia about events in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. We need to ask ourselves an open question about why my generation and people younger than me tonight is more important game "Partizan" - "Macabi" than what we're saying here and why this doesn't have the weight it should have. This is certainly one of the most painful and difficult topics that plagues our society and this country, as well as this parliament, but we simply have to face what is behind us. However, the problem that stood at the beginning of today's debate, how to explain the importance of this topic, and why we refer through this declaration to what happened 15 years ago, to all of this most to contribute to the deafening noise that has been systematically created in the last 15 years. This is also done today through various quasiphoric, quasi-storial attitudes and debates, and we are tasked with bringing a wise, distanced, in an extremely politically rational and human moral court and a view of what, from time to time, in the form of a skeleton falls out of our closet. Why is a silver tragedy so important that we simply have to set ourselves up against it? Srebrenica is a paradigm of something that a nation, a country, cannot afford, especially one society, and especially to view it with approval or indifference. In the evening of the Dayton negotiations and the end of the bloody fraternal war, the silver tragedy still today, after 15 years, for us, and for the whole region there is a black hole, an invisible hand that does not allow us to turn our head towards the future, and we will not be able to do so unless we truly determine ourselves towards it. The tried recipe, whose reflections we have seen today, forgetfulness, misrepresentation, relativization, obviously does not yield results. Today, we are expected, as representatives of the people, to be discreet and brave in seeing this problem. We don't make any historic judgments today, we don't even bring judgments. My personal view is that we are bringing a valuable judgment and an assessment to one of the people's Sundays and inhumans who did this work, calling on our behalf and on behalf of our national interests. This time, we need to avoid the danger of turning back on the track of historical impasses, falsifications and misrepresentations that today follow historicly unexposed events, especially in the last 50 years. If we do away with it, which is obviously one part of us today, and has failed, out of the daily politics of petty interests and the need to wash personal, sometimes bloody biographies, and among other things, the attempts in which we count and turn the dead, represent the ultimate cynicism and attempt to amnesty of crime, especially the human in us, and only then our two-century state-wing, free-loving, just-loving tradition, our truly rooted anti-fascism, bind us first of all to the sympathies of the victims, their fellow citizens and their countrymen. And that is for me, as a People's Messenger, the spirit of this text. What's the subtext of this declaration, and what's repeatedly pointed out here, is the individualization of guilt and the guilty who keep trying, and that's what they're trying to do today, to push us all into one collective funk and suffering. The second context, which we should observe through this declaration, is the normalisation and establishment of relations with Bosniaks, which make up a good part of Serbia's citizens, but also with our neighbouring country of BiH. It is only by establishing such normal relationships that we can go into the realization of our hidden ambition to be true leaders in the region. The acceptance of the declaration also means reducing the gaps and the smoldering conflict with the international community and in general with the world, because it is our personal shame that many of the countries and organisations in which we are sitting, above all, the UN organisation, the European Parliament in which we want to sit and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have brought their views in advance. Our generation of political representatives sitting in this home today have no right to irresponsibility and cannot afford it. As for the position G17 plus according to this declaration, besides this previously stated, we do not view this declaration, the vote for it, as an emergency, an extortion, a must, and if that were the case, then we would not declare ourselves to this declaration. What is more important is what we will see in the next period and what should be reflections of the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration – whether it will affect the state policy, the political functioning of individuals and parties, the education system and all those segments of society that need to be integrated into one valuable framework, on which to mature future generations. If we don't see it that way, and tonight a good part of us doesn't see it that way, that skeleton from the beginning of the story, the skeleton, it's always going to fall out of the closet, and we don't have an answer to the question where he came from. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38073	MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38074	Ma'am, how much time do we have as a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38075	Thirty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38076	Oh, thank you. For the sake of the public who I hope is following this transmission, because this is still an important topic, basically of our debate today is the word 'genocide'. Someone's been trying to cover it up, but the public knows that the ruling coalition has been negotiating for months, negotiating what this declaration looks like. And today he's trying, in various ways, to avoid that word. It is very dangerous when a term, which rightly has precise meaning, is used in the wrong place. I have no intention of calling anyone, nor of making inappropriate parallels, but probably any lady you know her name and name if you would call her "damn Jerina" has at least two reasons to be angry: the first one, which is rude if you know a man not to tell him his name and last name, and the second one, "damn Jerina" is a synonym for something bad. It would have happened similarly with a man you know with a full name and last name and you tell him – good afternoon, Adolf Hitler. Why am I saying this? It is dangerous to use some terms to display something that does not fit by its name or even synonym. The topic – whether genocide or not is so large, huge, exceeds not only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but exceeds the importance of all parliaments, and even has major problems and people in both courts in The Hague. You don't have to believe me, because you never trusted me, even when I present the facts you are calling for, but also Tibor Varadi and Radoslav Stojanović and Saša Obradovic, when they represented Serbia-Montenegro before the International Court of Justice, according to the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, presented a number of arguments concerning active and passive rights. How is it possible for someone to file a lawsuit in 1993 and then put on a "genocide", and then it's reportedly not until 1995? Amazing things happen. It is covered by the 'joint criminal enterprise', so General Krstic gets 46 years in prison because he was helping, and he doesn't know who, because he was an assistant, and there's no telling who he was helping, and Vidoje Blagojevic, with all the problems he had with lawyer Karnavas, who he's been kicking out of the case for two years, got 18 years for complicity in a conspiracy, and the International Court of Justice concluded that there was no genocide intention, took something out of some verdicts, and did not, for example, take over Duško Tadic's verdict. And now I'm not torturing you with those facts. Serbia-Montenegro's legal representative before the International Court of Justice, Radoslav Stojanovic, on the moment the verdict was read, as a legal representative, made an apology on behalf of the state. I may have a very bad opinion about this man, but he was a fox, so he gave a very acceptable formulation of that apology, and he didn't fall into the trap. And now there's someone on the sidelines that the National Assembly should bring in one of these kind of declarations. Let me remind you, the UN Security Council when it passed some resolutions -- it did so on the basis of some reports. All these reports were subject to the Hague tribunal's work. Nothing was proven in those reports, absolutely nothing was proven! Just to remind you, two years ago, a big dispute in front of the Security Council, a fight between Curkin and Condoleezza Rice, where at one point the representatives of Russia say, well, say what a minimum number for genocide is, because you're going too wide, by your criteria, and those two planes that hit the World Trade Center you could use the term genocide. Noam Chomsky says – for what happened in Srebrenica, if the term genocide is used, then for real genocide we need to invent a new term. Please, what about the value criteria? The Americans have not yet condemned the genocide of Armenians in Turkey, and 15 EU countries have done so. And we suggested, you didn't accept. Turkey has been interrupting diplomatic relations everywhere. Turkey went to Srebrenica a few years ago to beg the municipal leadership not to single out Srebrenica from Republika Srpska, as the Dayton Agreement was invalid. Who's pushing this? The one who committed the aggression, the one who broke up the former Yugoslavia, to cover up his crimes and his tracks! And he found a power that, pressed from all sides, is able to push something like this out and use different arguments here, and what it is, and what it isn't and so on, and so on. Of course, the European Parliament had a need to adopt such a resolution. Why? They recognised the republics, recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina on April 6th, and on May 22nd 1992, the United Nations. What did Bill Clinton say on his 10th anniversary in the Potocari? "This was what I needed to bomb the Republic of Serbia, to make them come to Dayton." So, where's your "Storm" criterion for Flash? Where's your criteria, say, for Rwanda? What's undeniable as genocide, that's what happened over the Armenians, that's what happened in Rwanda, that's what happened during World War II. What happened in Rwanda in 1994? In the presence of the UN, one tribe killed millions and 70,000 other tribes. Please, there's something going on about Srebrenica. Well, something that's a crime and what's the story, it didn't happen on the territory of the Srebrenica municipality. Read some documentation, see. We warn you that it is too soon for any declaration or resolution. Recently there was a great scientific gathering in Moscow, 30 and some leading scientists from this area, they said – stop, there is no real truth yet. Look what the UN representatives said in July 1995, what was going on. Now you understand why Naser Oric is not convicted, in order to preserve the picture of Srebrenica, as a means of pressure against the entire Serbian people. When did this story start - September, October, November last year? How? Turkey has presented itself to be granted an exclusive right from the United States to speak to BiH and the Republic of Serbia. The last conversation that, a month ago, Vuk Jeremic had with Haris Silajdzic, instead of 20 minutes, lasted an hour. It ended with Vuk Jeremic asking a question – what do you want from us? He says -- we want diplomatic relations to be established and we want you to make a resolution about it. The kid told him - it's done! What are we talking about? In a few months, the verdicts are to be dictated by a group of people who have been charged with something in Srebrenica. Well, if you bring a resolution like this here, a declaration, they'll be very happy to read it there. The trial of Radovan Karadzic is opening. He's got a few genocides. I don't want to burden you with the idea of genocide. My predecessors have described -- there is no such destruction, there is no level and criteria that would deserve that word. We're talking about the word "genocide". No one here has disputed that crimes and other crimes have occurred, but the name for these crimes is not genocide. And what kind of people you are, we tried you with the motion for a resolution to condemn the genocide that Ottoman Turkey committed from 1915 to 1923. A million and a half people are gone, if taken from 1870 to 1929, that's two and a half million. The Armenians lost 12 areas. You don't care. Why? The boss said -- you have to bring this in, so you've got a white Schengen so you don't fall out of power. What price do we have to pay with you? Well, of course we won't vote. Pull this declaration and leave, let some things be cleared up to give a final assessment of what it is, if we have to plead, but don't crash. A million times you've brought us into troubles and troubles with your head! That's why we're criticizing you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38077	The word has a folk emissary Jelena Trivan, followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38078	I must admit that this morning, applying for today's discussion, I felt very proud to live in Serbia that will finally bring in one of these declarations, and that some things in Serbia are politically mature and that they look different than when the crimes happened. However, today's debates of some MPs sent a disappointing picture of Serbia and showed that some people, in some political parties, have no transition and have no evolution, political or moral. I expected at least false empathy, false scrupulousness when it comes to victims, if anything else, because if you act that way, that's the only way you get moral credibility to talk about Serbian victims. Today, speaking of this way about other people's dead, about other people's children, without respect, calling them "supply corpses" and "supply victims", you are choking every opportunity to seek the truth and responsibility for Serbian victims tomorrow. Fortunately, you're a minority today. Fortunately, you're probably not even going to be in the next parliament. But unfortunately, you created Serbia that led us to talk about crimes and you created an atmosphere where an ordinary Serbian citizen today is ashamed of himself, and he has no idea why he is personally responsible for what happened. Because for years, there's been a sign of equality, intentional and very trendy, between the whole people and the criminals, and nobody does it outside, but you do it, putting shame on the name of your own people. To tell the truth tells the fact that today you've all had a declarative agreement with that guilt is individual, but none of you had the courage to say that Ratko Mladic is a place in prison, moreover, many of you who have thought about voting on this declaration, I don't think of you radicals, you would never vote, so many of you have changed your mind exactly because in the depth of your soul you're not ready to vote for support from the state authorities to arrest a criminal. So it is deeply unclear to me why it is harder to accuse the Scorpions and feel compassion with women who dream every night that children are shot in the back of their head than to condemn Ratko Mladic, who is watching TV, drinking coffee, and spending millions hiding in caves. For me, it is morally vague, as it is unclear to me, which is why compassion with the Serbian mothers is something that will make the position of Serbs, Serbian people or any Serbian woman, who has also lost her child in those wars. Its enemies are not the enemies of the Srebrenica mother, its enemies are Naser Oric, Ratko Mladic, the united criminals of all countries who were the only ones who were actually united in the former Yugoslavia's space. I'm glad we moved somewhere, because in 2005, the polling committee was requested in this House and that the director of RTS was replaced because he showed the movie about Srebrenica. Here, five years ago, people believed deeply that the problem of wars in the former Yugoslavia could be solved by hiding them, confident that truth can be hidden forever. Today they say the declaration we bring imposes an additional burden on the Serbian people. No, gentlemen dear, we take the burden off of every common man and every child born in Serbia, that they are not the guilty, that they are not the criminals, that they did not stand behind you and those you supported when you did so. Today we build moral credibility and legitimacy to ask for our own sacrifices and defend our own sovereignty. Today, we are deeply showing what a European idea and ideology is, because this community is created at reconciliation and at civilization values. And it's not declarative enough to say that you're a European, you need to believe in civilization values we're showing today. Serbia has a past that can be called upon, a very bright past, not only in the 1990s, which we should be ashamed of. And today I will talk about Serbia-Yugoslavia, which in 1947, when the Convention on Genocide was adopted in the UN, said that this declaration was too soft, that it wasn't hard enough against criminals, sought a death sentence for all war criminals, demanded that even the "cultural genocide" be severely punished. It was Serbia once, because it was the logical position of the people who were victims of genocide. It was the logical position of the people standing in the anti-fascist bloc. That's why it's inadmissible to put shame on our name and to tear down the past we call upon and be proud of. So, in the end, I want to tell you that what the ruling majority is doing today is saying that your policy of the '90s is defeated! What you say about the victims speaks of you, it will not diminish the crime, it will not diminish the suffering; it will certainly diminish your little moral credibility that you have. However, despite the fact that most Serbia is standing at the point of view of what I'm saying, I still feel a deep shame that some here say that it's a relaxing circumstance that they weren't all tied up, but all of them a thousand, which when counterpart Meho Omerovic says -- are you going to say that Bosniaks killed themselves, people grinning and said yes. So you don't deserve to represent the Serbian people. You're showing that picture that the Serbian people aren't. I am happy that by bringing this declaration, we will illuminate the face of this country and this people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38079	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. After him, the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38080	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true that we have a problem talking about Muslim victims today. It bothers us to talk only about Muslim victims, and it is not about Serbian victims, because Serbian victims are neither less, nor are we worth less than Muslim victims. This declaration is one in a series of pranks to the Serbian people, as the "Srebrenica case" itself. Its adoption is a crime against the Serb people, an even greater crime against the Republika Srpska, and the greatest crime against the truth about the war in BiH. The first prank was that a genocide was committed in Srebrenica. If Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic wanted to destroy the Muslim animal in Srebrenica, they would have killed first the most vital and reproductive part of Muslims, they would have killed women and children. Not only did they not do so, not only did they not kill them, but organized, bused, more than 20,000 Muslims evacuated to the Tuzla and Kladnja area under the control of the government in Sarajevo. So much for genocide. The second is the claim that 7,000 Muslims were killed in Srebrenica. All their dead from Srebrenica and the environment, both those who died in battle and those who died by natural causes, Muslims are buried in Potocara. There's a total of 1,919 bodies, with a letter and a number, I'm talking about complete bodies. For them, 442 – there are material clues that suggest the possibility of a shooting crime being committed. The International Red Cross "The Book of Missing" lists 6,610 Srebrenica. For them 3,381, only the name and last name is indicated. There's no information. No parents' name, no place, no date of birth. For what? Well, because these people don't exist. If it is said that there is Hamdo Idrizovic, of Father Refik, from the town of Zalazije, born then and then, then it is easy to check whether that man exists or does not exist. The Srebrenica families reported the disappearance of 10,000 loved ones to the International Red Cross. Afterward, 2,000 applications turned out to be duplicates, and 5,000 applications refer to persons who left Srebrenica before July 1995. According to this account, there are about 3,000 dead soldiers, Nasir Oric, who died in battle. A report on the fall of Srebrenica, which was filed by the Muslim Army's chief headquarters, General Delic, in the Sarajevo parliament in August 1996, said the BiH Army ''in Operation Srebrenica had losses of 2,300 fighters''. After that, for the purposes of media Satanisation of the Serbian people, they multiplied by three and got this figure of 7,000. All these people, all these soldiers are on the list of alleged genocide victims. In the book ''Srebrenica – aggression, resistance, betrayal, genocide', printed in Sarajevo, author Nijaz Masic, again a Muslim source, says around Srebrenica died about 1,500 Muslim soldiers before 1995. And they're being treated as genocide victims. In the text entitled "Golgotu Survived Every Third", as of July 17th 2005, in Sarajevo's "Freedom", Šefko Hodzic claims that 14,000 Muslim soldiers went into the Srebrenica breakthrough, and you heard from the title that he died every third, but there is not a single word about the shooting range. He describes fighting, chest-to-heart fights, heroic fights in the Bars near Kamenica, near the Force in the Crossing Fields, in which he says thousands of Muslim soldiers died. The third is the claim that the crime in Srebrenica is the most serious crime committed in the former Yugoslavia. That's not true! The shooting of several hundred captured soldiers is a serious crime for every conviction, but the more serious crimes these soldiers have committed before over the Serb population in Podrinj. The total number of Muslims and Serbs died in Podrinj, about 3,200 to 3,500. The difference is that 75% of the Serb civilians died, who in no way participated in the war, and on the side of Muslims 95% of the soldiers, the regular 28th division of the BiH Army, left 140 Serb villages and 850 orphan children. The next data - the number of Serb women and children killed in the wider Srebrenica area, the material data, is ten times the number of Muslim and Muslim children killed. Muslim soldiers in Srebrenica died of the easiest and fastest military death, so I apologize for having to say, from a bullet. These soldiers committed a crime against 2,500 people before that. Of which, more than 1,000 were killed with a cold weapon - a knife, an axe, a hack, a mallet. I will list several examples: 60 locals were killed in the attack on Subravna on 24 September 1992. The autopsy, the results next -- only a small number of victims killed by firearms. The other unfortunates were first shot at the legs, then butchered. With a knife and an axe, mostly. Almost everyone's spine, arms and legs, severed fingers or whole hands, pulled out one or both eyes. For many, the head was separated from the body. One man is dizzy, and the other one is completely castrated. More bodies are burned. Two men on a stake, roasted! All the corpses had their watches removed, their gold teeth removed, their shoes and clothes taken away! I will give another example - the fate of priest Janko Savic from Kravica, his body was found without hands and legs, with his eyes removed! The criminals left him here, with the help of the supporters, in an upright position, and lined up several cups of coffee in front of him. Muslims from Srebrenica committed several dozen similar crimes. No case of a similar massacre of Muslims by the Serb army has been recorded. Despite these facts, you will today adopt a document condemning only crime against Muslim soldiers, but not a crime against Serb civilians. The criminal character of this declaration is particularly reflected if Muslim victims in Srebrenica compare with civilian Serb victims in Sarajevo. In Sarajevo, ladies and gentlemen, 5,000 Serb soldiers and at least 2,500 civilians were killed. Murdered civilians were in no way involved in the war. They didn't kill anyone, they didn't shoot, they didn't have guns, they didn't have a uniform! People are brought out of their apartments, often entire families, into the streets or camps, and later killed! By all standards, both legal and human, Christian and Islamic, the killing of 2,500 civilians is more a crime than killing 7,000 soldiers, and the fact is that there were 7,000 of them, and there were not so many! Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most embarrassing pages of Serbia's newest history! Serbia's assembly, will remain remembered, rather mourned several hundred enemy soldiers than 30,000 Serbs killed in the last war in BiH before 8,000 Serbs killed in Croatia, before 80,000 children, Serbian, Roma, Jewish, who were killed in the Jasenovac camp before a million Serbs from BiH and Croatia who died in the genocide! You know what, that's ironic, that the Serbian parliament condemns the Serbian people for the crime of genocide. Well, if there is a people in the Balkans who are victims of genocide -- that's the Serbian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38081	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. After her, MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38082	The Serb brothers and sisters of the Serbians, you who are in the hall and who feel that way, and you who are watching us by your little TV screens, the Serbian people undoubtedly had a very difficult and unfortunate history. And today we print the pages of history. A shameful declaration will be brought that will have far-reaching, devastating consequences for the state of Serbia and the Serb people. That's the opinion of the SRS, and history will give its assessment. You will see who was right – us, or you who proposes such a declaration. As it has been difficult in the past 60 years to be a German for crimes committed in World War II, so in the future it will be difficult to be a Serb, wherever he is. Hence perhaps the interest of Doris Pak for Serbs to become criminals even greater than the Germans themselves, those who created Dahau and Mathausen. We Serbs must never forget that we were held in Turkish slavery by domestic turkeys, but that even in every new war there were 'new poturica', and in every new historical challenge there was treason, and even today, this declaration will be made by history, we are safe, assessed as an act of betrayal! If we have national dignity, the Serbian people wonder today, if you have any contact with that people. Why do Serbs bring any declaration today? Whatever it says, the interpretations of your text will confirm that Serbs have admitted that a genocide has been committed in Srebrenica. There will be no more chance to talk about it, to tell the truth. Srebrenica will go ad act, and we Serbs need the truth more than anyone. The question arises – why so far have we not made sure that this truth is heard, but that is what the Russians had to do for us? Here, Mrs. Guskova, as Director of the Institute of Historical Sciences, Head of the Centre for the Study of the Contemporary Balkan Crisis of the Russian Academy of Sciences, writes nicely and warns us – that more and more data appears that Srebrenica is planned and well performed operations of Western special services. The lie about Srebrenica is spreading around the world at a huge rate and fighting it is getting harder and harder. We are at the Institute, she says, organised an international conference on the issue, 30 scientists participated, and it gave the possibility to look differently at the problem of Srebrenica and to start reviewing the official version. To rush, she says, with the admission of her guilt and with an apology – not until then until all circumstances related to the events in Srebrenica are clarified and become generally good to the public. Otherwise, it will be a heavy burden and accusation on the shoulders of the entire Serbian people. It will become a confirmation of the "compete" version of the Serbian blame for everything that happened in the Balkans in the 1990s and a justification for the 1990s bombing. The Serb people do not need it, he says, that he is responsible for what he did not do. It doesn't take the leadership forever to apologize, to humiliate, to undermine the self-respect of the people. After that, no one will go to defend the country tomorrow. Here, the Russian Academy of Science is ready, it says, to unite forces with Serbian scientists and scientists from other countries to study the Srebrenica case. Why didn't we go that way, I'm asking you? This document, which you are proposing today, declares the lie and you know it, as you know it will be the basis for Serbia's further dismemberment and the immediate destruction of Republika Srpska. Vladimir Vukcevic, a war crimes prosecutor, appeared in the press and sought, beware, he is asking, that the Assembly extend an apology to all members of the victims' families because Serbia has not done enough to prevent alleged genocide in Srebrenica. How could she, please? Please explain that to me. What you didn't write in this declaration -- Serbia should have done that, that and that, so we know what it is. Here, I don't know what could have been done. For him, even this declaration is a unique opportunity, he says, for reconciliation, and does not lag behind, normally, or Bruno Vekaric, is right next to him, who is even more open and says – there is no point in bringing this declaration unless it says it was genocide. Their stance, unfortunately, fully coincides with Turkey's foreign minister's position, which believes the Balkans have experienced the brightest moments under Ottoman occupation. The next result of Turkish diplomacy, he said in the Balkans, will be a Serbian apology for the killing of Turks in Srebrenica. You see, their diplomatic activity has worked. We today, that is you, adopt such a declaration. We can now conclude that next to Jelko Kacin, the one responsible for killing those 46 innocent soldiers in Slovenia, if you remember, who were killed in the back of the head with firearms, who were unarmed, all 20 years later, and Doris Pak, who has an interest, of course, in all of this, this Turk is the most responsible for bringing this declaration. And since they have become authority for you gentlemen, you explain it to the people, who did not give you the mandate to confess in his name something that did not happen. It was easy to get to the truth, only that you wanted to, but no, only Serbs need to be imposed an ethnic burden, because the West business with Serbia has not yet been completed! There it is, gentlemen Sandzak, there's Vojvodina, there's federalization, and who knows what else! Did you see Zukorlic laughing at you in New Market the night before last? Listen, he says they don't want the word "genocide." If he won't, we won't admit that declaration either. He had no one to explain to him that those who needed that word would find it in this declaration. Who are they? Well, those who want to justify their actions -- the 1995 bombing, in 1999, those who started everything, those who committed a crime against peace and who we're going to abuse from this declaration of responsibility! Now, this is for us Serbian radicals a betrayal of Serbian national interests. Do you realize that our children, our grandchildren, will learn that we committed genocide? Well, what authority would do that? Did the Americans do this for the crimes they committed in Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Afghanistan and Iraq? Of course not. No responsible government will do that. How come Vukcevic and Vekaric, I ask you now, did not investigate who was responsible for the murder that undoubtedly took place in Zvornik on 9 April 1992, such as one protected witness, the victim, claimed in the trial against Vojislav Seselj before The Hague tribunal?- I'm sorry. And one of us here, Borislav Pelevic, checked in alone through the press that day that he was there and that even some of his fellow Members died, and after a few days he gave them up, and he declares that he wasn't there, but somewhere else? Why not question the prosecutor when Pelevic lied and what really happened there?- I'm sorry. Do we need deetnification or do we need to determine, as you say, the relativization of the crime or do we need to determine the real perpetrators of the crime? And the only legal conviction for the Srebrenica crime is Erdemovic, a Bosnian Croat, who confirmed to The Hague tribunal that seven other men helped him in Srebrenica on 16 July 1995 in the murder of 1,200 men. Why didn't Vukcevic and Vekaric press charges against them when they knew the names of these people and the places of residence of these people? That's the question we ask, and we ask -- how much does it cost to have some parliamentary group, when the time comes to vote, stay here to give you a quorum? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38083	The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38084	Of course we won't abolize anyone and, of course, we won't forget any victims, and we won't skip any perpetrators of any crime, not just crimes committed against others, but those committed to our people. By adopting this declaration, we will in no way admit that the people committed genocide. Those who say - we did not commit genocide, identifying ourselves with the people, in fact, are identified with those who committed the crime. So when you keep trying to say that you won't take the blame, that you won't be held accountable, then that actually means that you won't vote for this declaration, because you identify yourself with those who condemn this declaration for the crimes committed. Whoever's gonna be right will show time, but since you're not on the political scene yesterday, you've shown that you've made a mistake in 20 years. Wherever you defend the people of Serbia, he has suffered gravely. Wherever you defend national interests, every national interest is lost. Wherever you were defending, Serbian lives reportedly -- Serbs were badly injured. That's what your share is in what we're talking about today. We're not surprised that you can't vote for this declaration, because in some way, it condemns the policy that led to such crimes. I'm not surprised that in that policy some people recognize and cannot stand behind this declaration, because that way they would accept and acknowledge their own responsibility for what was happening at the time. However, I must say that I have a surprise that this declaration will not be voted by those who allegedly have no problem condemning any crime, who allegedly have no problem with expressing compassion with victims, who allegedly accept European values and believe Serbia is a place in Europe. I do not understand those who recommend that Serbia lead faster to Europe, unprepared to face the past and unprepared to say about the past -- individuals are responsible, and people with those individuals have nothing to do with it. I'm sorry that, speaking of this declaration, we haven't had the strength to talk about the value system we want to build in the future. I'm sorry we didn't talk about future generations that, by adopting, among other things, we're going to leave this declaration to a country in which we will no longer fear conflict, war and hatred. I am sorry that this declaration opened a political story in exactly the same way that it was conducted in the 1990s. I'm sorry, indeed, that those who had reason to ask themselves did not change -- wait, did I do something wrong when the consequences were this difficult, and yet I took part in it rather? We are actually gaining credibility and moral right to seek responsibility for the perpetrators of all crimes, especially crimes committed against the Serbian people. We in this way express our deep willingness to - condemning crimes committed against others, ask that others express the same willingness and condemn the crimes committed against our people. If it's a shame for the Serbs for us to adopt this declaration, as some claim, then I don't think there was any greater shame than being infected in the whole world, to be accused of guilt that we weren't guilty of, to be recognized as a people who was most wrongly trying to achieve their goals. Today, when Serbia enjoys international reputation, when it has international credibility, when it achieves the greatest support in the United Nations for its proposals, when it gets support for achieving its most important strategic goal, which is joining the European Union, today it is the best proof that the policy that has been being led since 2000, which is completely contrary to what some still stand for today, then it is indeed proof that Serbia is on the right track and that, like other moves we have made in these ten years, and this move guarantees that Serbia will be a country that will enjoy the world's reputation, which will be credible, which will be able to achieve its national and national goals, working with the world and countries in the region, and not conflicting with everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38085	The Serbian Radical Party has two minutes and 40 seconds left. One of you three or four, as far as you're concerned, can get a word in that time. Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38087	Excuse me, please, Mr Krasic's name is in the Rules of Procedure. I didn't realize. I thought you were looking for a replica. You have no right to a replica. Hurt the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38088	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have to ask you if the Rules of Procedure are in place after 11:00 p.m. or not? If so, I appeal to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure, to point out that at the beginning of Mrs. Kolundji's presentation, she used some words where she evened the critics of this declaration with the criminals. I think that's inadmissible. We have the right to a political stance. I asked you to remove this declaration from the agenda. Don't bring in anything we didn't even talk about. And, another thing, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since you are obviously not following with enough attention this debate of ours, you are probably tired, but there must be some kind of basic respect. If something is criticised, which was from 1991 to 1995, so they directly hit on you, on Ivica Dacic, on Mr Bajatovic, on Ruzic, for example on my friend Milet Ilic, and you are silent, it is your problem and I am not getting into it. If you talk about some co-operation, Mrs Kolundzija, Radovan Karadzic was the president of the Serbian Democratic Party, which was in friendly relations with Dragoljub Micunovic's Democratic Party. Whenever Radovan Karadzic crossed Drina, he first went to Micunovic and Ljuba Tadic, and only, if he remembers, to Milosevic, possibly for some help. So, who are you criticizing here? Sit down with Boris Tadic and the founder of the DS, and agree on who you're going to criticise. Don't impute us some things that have nothing to do with us. And the public is interested in hearing – how much is it that someone will give you a quorum to vote on this declaration? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38089	Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38090	Mrs Kolundzhija, this is what the Republic of Serbia looks like in 2009 and 2010 in the visa of your European friends contained in the European Commission's report: "Corruption remains widespread in many areas and continues to be a serious problem. There are many obstacles to root out systemic corruption. The most vulnerable sectors are public procurement, privatisation and other large budget expenditures, but also taxation, customs, licensing." That's on page 11. On page 13, Mrs. Kolundzija, it says: "Serbia has not yet established"; imagine, "the 'national mechanism for preventing torture, which is an obligation resulting from its confirmation of the option protocol, with a convention against torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment. Further police reports on inhumane conduct suggest that such unconscious actions have not yet been eradicated." Mrs. Kolundjia, this is happening in Serbia where you rule, not the SRS. "Money laundering – Serbia has begun to address priorities in the field of fighting money laundering. Money laundering remains a serious concern." Further: "Current drug confiscation is not destroyed, but delayed in drug warehouses. This practice, allegedly due to environmental concerns, is causing serious security problems. "On page 54, Mrs. Kolundžija: "The fight against organised crime - newly founded bodies, such as the Financial Investigations Unit and the Agency for the Management of Confiscated Assets, are faced with a serious lack of staff, and are therefore only partially operational. "Furthermore: "The victims of discrimination are given little support and more commitment is needed from all actors, police, prosecutors and the judiciary, to ensure that the laws are fully applied." Then: "Privatisation of certain disputed assets continues, at the risk of de facto prejudge future decisions on the return of assets", and so on, and so on. This, Mrs. Kolundjia, is Serbia, where you rule in the wrong way, for 10 years! And you can't wash off responsibility for these and many other problems what you're about to say – here, it's Ratko Mladic or it's the SRS. [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38091	Time. He has Mrs. Hope Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38092	In order to understand what these estimates mean, and we understand them well, unlike you, we know exactly what context they are placed in, we must go from that Serbia is a country in transition and that a country that is 10 years ago, now I can list to what extent it has been destroyed in every segment of its existence. So, from this devastated, completely devasted terrain, Serbia launched the transition process in 2000 and the EU accession process, and the achievement of European standards. That we are on a good track and that everyone acknowledges it is the best proof that Serbia will be accepted in next year, that a Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed, that Serbia is now slowly making plans for pre-accession funds, that it is recognised of course by many reforms, and what you are talking about are elements of what we still have to work on. And that, I must tell you, is a fraction of what we have to work on. We have a lot more to work on, but there's a lot more to it because the countries of Eastern Europe went to that transition in the '90s, and thanks to some policies, we went to war in the '90s. [[Applause to MP DS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38093	He has the word Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38094	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want something quite personal, since feelings are, in fact, that universal form of understanding that needs to be shown in front of this subject, the tragic subject of an innocent victim, which, at this point in the agenda, is more precisely in front of the declaration, and we are dealing with. We in Kragujevac also have the artistic means of restoring the ability of feeling in the tragedy and humiliating atmosphere of collective, mass, dying people. One of the most shaken testimonies on the subject is the manuscript by Professor Svetislav Maksimovic, one of the few survivors of the "October forestry days" at the time of the fascist occupation, in which, among other things, the words for which European civilization has not yet been prepared, because of the unprepared crimes of unsuspecting proportions, for example, speak of it – that people, when mass funerals give them no resistance and that obediently, as children, they go to their execution. In doing so, people unwittingly, spontaneously stutter and whine. So says Professor Maksimovic, and we will stop there, so that we do not open the horror any further, because we are coming to the topic, which Polish poet Julian Pshibos, in the anthological song "Svevencim", rightly, says – that this is what you can't talk about and you can't shut up about. We come to the limit of the possibility of understanding which, above all, is to be realized, with an elementary assumption, in the family and among the loved ones of the experienced compassion for the suffering and the pain of the other. So it seems that if I move on to the analytical part of the argument, it is unclear why the question should be asked – why two and not one declaration. If every difference between the victims were abolished in one, then, by abolishing all differences, every provision would be lost, and that would be one thing, in many solemn words. It's about making a difference. Only if you show the ability of a non-relativating, absolute understanding of the victims, who, even if associated with you, have full moral credibility to demand respect, understanding and for their own victims. You can't say – I'm sorry, however. However, it means that you are not sorry and that you lie when you express compassion. And finally, quite politically, at the very end, I've already said once, with the objection that it's not understandable, but at this point, on this subject, it simply has to be understandable to everyone. From the "stradian" expansion of the time of drowning in domestic mud, there remains a picture of Serbia as a dark house, where three generations live: grandfather, son and grandson – in a house with walled windows, in which only a grandson wants to open those windows. But they don't give him, 'cause the light wouldn't come in, so that the corpses would not be seen, whose house was full of grandfather's burning youth and father's terrible drunkenness. '"(President: Time. Thank you. ) At this point, together for the Forest and Parliament Group G17 plus an integral vote in favour of this declaration, with a solemn feeling of ponos – to open perspectives for the light of the open world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38095	He has the word of MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38096	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are standing before the adoption of a declaration, which I believe we would all be happy – that there was never a cause for its adoption. Nevertheless, the unsustainable amount of human accident concentrated in a small place, until then, made Srebrenica in the international public become a paradigm for civil war victims at the premises of several Yugoslavias at the end of the century. The Serbian Parliament is facing a declaration that is most strongly meant to condemn a serious crime against people, whose greatest fault was that their personal documents included names that were the only indictment for the executioners. This declaration is also an apology to the victims and their families, a call for reconciliation and forgiveness. Since 1995, this issue has been raised both in our and in the international public as a political, legal, international-law, national, religious, state, economic and non-economic issue, clouding the essence that this is primarily a large, ethical and human issue. If personal morality must be the basis of every general policy, then the basis for a decision on the declaration must be known as "Starry Sky above us and the moral law in us". "I am necessarily a man, by chance I am French," said Walter, expressing the essence of man as a human being. When we ask the question today whether and how to condemn this crime, the poet gave the answer long ago – we will be easy, if we are people. The declaration should raise us above the tribal value system, which is good for us if our tribe kills and robs others, and it is bad, if they do so to us. At the beginning of the third millennium, it is unlikely that a proof procedure should be carried out that such behaviour is inadmissible, in both cases. This declaration represents a payoff and compassion with the sufferings of the victims and their loved ones, but also a clear condemnation of the crime. Every minimisation of victims, auctioning their numbers represents their re-killing, and in all religions the murder of at least one man is qualified as the murder of humanity. This declaration should also help to individualise guilt and bring justice to those who at the wrong time claimed to be willing to die for their people, and today they are not prepared to go to court for it either. Bringing justice and condemnation to the guilty under the name and last name would wash away collective guilt and lies against the entire people, as well as expose the concealment of their own insubordinations of those who, by committing a crime, are written not out of the people to whom they belong, but out of the human race, by putting criminals by nationality, without the right to be called by another name. A recording of the child's tormented murder, only in the life of the stepped up by the infamous Scorpions, can help those who still have a dilemma, as well as known crimes in Strpc and the North. I am convinced that this declaration is another step towards reconciliation and an end to the concentration circles of evil in the Balkans. By honoring the Srebrenica victims, we also offer stronger moral credibility to represent the victims in Skelani, Bratunc, Kravica, and their strategies, where also the only fault of the victims was belonging to another ethnic Corps, given that crime is always a crime, so when it comes to revenge. By adopting this declaration, we also send a message to the UN, the EU, the International Court of Justice, The Hague tribunal and to the entire international community about Serbia as a modern state, based on universal human values. But, as in the economy, for example, we should not insist on small inflation, a stable dinar, better economic conditions because of the IMF or the World Bank, but because of ourselves, and we bring this declaration primarily for ourselves, not for others. We recently attended the last escort of a man who lived in harmony with his virtue and sent clear messages. Those who declare themselves believers, and we have heard many of them today, before they make a decision in which way they will vote on this declaration, may once again hear the words of the patriarch Paul: 'A man cannot choose the time in which he will be born and live, it is not up to him to any parent, nor to any nation to be born, but it depends on him how he will act in a given time, whether as a man or as an inhuman, regardless of which people and of which parents. Because we'd better disappear like humans than stay biological, survive as criminals and as inhumans. '" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38097	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38098	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable presidents, fellow MPs, SPO MPs will vote in favour of a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica. By adopting this declaration, we will make it clear to everyone that behind the crimes in Srebrenica are neither Serbian citizens nor Serbia states, but individuals. By adopting this declaration, we also gain the moral right to ask others to condemn their crimes committed against the Serb people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. But the paper won't mean anything unless we take a clear stand and condemn the policy of the '90s. We must judge the ideologists and father's war at the end of the 20th century, who have come out of wars with powerful positions and great wealth. The state must deal with those who, using wars and war heritage, have become billionaires at the expense of citizens. Serbian citizens, with absolute right, are seeking justice and truth, because Serbian and Serbian citizens are the biggest losers of the 1990s, due to misleading politics. So, a clear attitude towards the crime in Srebrenica, but also against all the actors of the 90s wars, should be a guarantee that the crime will not happen again. For the first time, the Serbian people, who has always been a victim in their history, will mention Jasenovac, Jadovno, Korićko Cave, Pridvorica, Kapavico, with this crime in the eyes of the world as a people of execution. As long as in Serbia and the Serbian people at all, although I'm not sure, but let's say so, so let the minority think that the perpetrators of the crimes in Srebrenica are national heroes, it's not possible to build a future without fear that they will also bring us heroes whose actions, which they recommend for heroism, will be crimes. For some, patriotism has become a non-recognition and denial of crime. I'm not one to say that the Serbian people are behind Srebrenica, because it's also a coaster and a replacement for the worst kind. The most beautiful and best part of Serbia was on the streets of Belgrade, Cačka, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and other cities, fighting war and Milosevic's regime. We've been killed twice. We suffered from the tyranny of a terrorist and anti-national regime, and the natural cycle of aging, so the best years of our lives ate that fight. I don't care what the West thinks of Srebrenica, because in the name of its ideals and my conscience, I want to admit to myself that individuals have committed a crime. I want to free my children from the obligation to lose their youth by fighting some new war. Point 4, according to SPO MPs, this declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crimes in Srebrenica, should read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is expecting that the highest authorities of other countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia will in this way condemn crimes committed against members of the Serbian people in recent wars, as well as organised state-run Ustasha genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma committed in World War II and will give their condolences to the families of Serb victims." The reasons -- SPO lawmakers believe that a general genocide committed against Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II in a declaration condemning the crime against the Bosniak population in Srebrenica should be mentioned, not to seek an alibi for the crime, but because the great genocide over the Serb people in BiH and Croatia obliges us to condemn the crimes committed by some members of the Serb nation in Srebrenica. The Serbs are the Christian people and the condemnation of the Srebrenica crime we adhere to the Christian principle – that we must not do to others the evil that has been done to us, that is to say, 'Who is crucified on the cross - must never crucify'! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38099	According to the Rules of Procedure? There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Well, you're angry, but you're really abusing that institute. Here you go. The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38100	You know, I can't really know in advance how you're going to behave, because you don't have the same archaics for various situations, which I can still give fatigue for the right, but I have to ask you something. I intend to do so now, and also later, to ask when the vote will take place in the voting day, which you will probably determine tonight, by calling. If you will not appoint him tonight, even if you tell us so, so that we may know. Otherwise, it's about a member of the 90s, so I'd ask for a roll call.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38101	Professor Micunović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38102	There is only a known example in child psychology – when a child puts his hand on his eyes, he believes that what he does not see and does not exist. Unfortunately, we have no right to be children. And the great satisfaction that some express by not wanting to see what happened, and by holding hope and believing that those who do the opposite betray the people, is to believe that denial of guilt is enough to prove innocence in any court. It's not! The court objectively judges, whether admitted or not, and whatever. Last thing, why are there two declarations? Marko Miljanov, whom we can regard as our Cant in a moral sense, distinguishes "heroness" and "mankind". "Heroness" is to defend yourself, and "mankind" is to defend one another from himself. In the first case, the impulses act, and in the second case, morals work. I wanted to say so much about tonight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38103	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38104	Ladies and gentlemen, the death of innocents is always terrible, and when it happens in our environment, we have a special moral obligation to clearly determine and condemn a crime. The constitution, as the most important act, before the highest body in the Republic of Serbia, obligates the National Assembly to protect the human life and human dignity of every individual and every group of people. We have a constitutional obligation ahead of us, but even more moral obligation. Today is the right time to ask a valuable question, it is the right time to adopt this declaration in favour of Serbian citizens, because Serbia will no longer be the same. Currently, Serbia is ready to step forward and set a standard of conduct. We should be aware that our words reach out to the victims' families, but also to all citizens of Serbia, to all who have suffered great sufferings and who expect to be protected, that evil never happens again. Every ugly word spoken in this hall or disrespect of the victims is a stain on my cheek and on the cheek of all of us. That's why I urge you to adopt this declaration, that we just launch a process of dealing with the causes and consequences of the events that have brought us great evil. It's exactly the time of the great fast that's the best time to condemn every crime. This is the time for everyone to look at themselves and wonder what it is or what it has not done, to wonder if we are closer to virtue or sin, to double the good deeds. We're being followed by temptations. It may be that the adoption of this declaration is one of them, but it is easy for us to think evangelically, if we think humanly, because bliss is a sign of a relationship to the sanctity of life. We who live in mixed environments know best how important it is to understand and cooperate, because very ordinary people, our fellow citizens work together, rejoice, grieve together. He's often more important to a neighbor than a relative, and we're all brothers and we're all human. As he taught us blissfully by resting Patriarch, Serbian Mr. Paul, although sin is common and possible, the most important thing is to be human. A clear determination against sin, and for life, let us show that there are both hope and faith and love. As messengers of the people, let us respect the Constitution as a sign of guidance, as we believe, let us first and foremost show love for God and for our fellow believers, for the guidance is only the Gospels. As a man who grew up in Pancheva, I was raised and taught not to share people with those who get baptized, who cross or worship. The only division is people and non-humans. We condemn the actions of non-humans, and in the name of that, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow Members of the People, I invite you to adopt the declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38105	Since the lists of parliamentary groups do not have those who wish to speak further, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or no one who has yet used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38106	I just checked in while Professor Benton was speaking. Micunovic, however, you have not seen. Dear MPs, Mrs. Dejanovic, I think he's Professor Dejanovic. Micunovic, in a certain way, has offended me and all other MPs who think otherwise, comparing me to children who hold their hands over their faces and do not see what is supposed to be true. I feel hurt and humiliated by a statement like this. Why? A game of circumstances, at the time of 1995, when what we're talking about today happened, I was in Bosnia and I was in those places. I am responsible and stand behind the fact that no crime has happened in Srebrenica, no genocide. What is General Mladic, whom we here accuse of being a criminal, gentlemen, before being tried by the Hague, you condemn him, is an extremely well-planned and brilliant military operation. You will allow several years back of the Naser Oric army to kill Serbs in the surrounding villages. The moment Naser Oric tried to provoke, by order of Izetbegovic, something that would happen in order to bomb and decide to extract the army from Srebrenica, that is what General Mladic learned...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38107	Time. Mr. Slobodan Samardzic has five minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38108	Dear People's MPs, I now address the majority in this assembly, today you have given yourself an auto goal. You have today assessed your initiative and your proposal for a declaration to the unit. If you hadn't done that, you wouldn't have scheduled a correction exam for Thursday. So you're going to try to fix and correct this weak grade you've given yourself today. But unfortunately, it won't be possible on Thursday, for the simple reason that here very often and very much talk about morality. Often pathetic, often quasipathetic, often learned, often quasi-squasi-squatted. Morales has one important feature, one important feature. He's universal and universal. Moral principles are either universal and universal or nonexistent. If you look at the title of this declaration and the 1st point, you will see that from the entire civil war in the former Yugoslavia, which lasted four years and in BiH for three and a half years, you have drawn one place, one time, a few days and one people as a victim of crime. You can't stay in the moral regime if you do and you force this assembly to discuss only this and bring a declaration to Muslims the victims of the Srebrenica crime of everything that has happened in the former Yugoslavia. As we have determined today, there have been crimes against other people in Srebrenica itself, on representatives of other nations, but you will try only Thursday for the correctional exam to say something about it. So you're going to bring two partial declarations, instead of doing what any honorable man, who has the right moral compassion with all the victims, would bring one declaration that would accuse all crimes in the entire former Yugoslavia's space where war was fought and throughout the war. It's the only way you missed today. So, you've made a mistake that you won't be able to correct on Thursday or the next day, but that mistake unfortunately doesn't go into your account or at your expense, it goes to Serbia and the entire Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38109	Mr Tomislav Nikolic. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38110	I don't think we need to talk about this much longer, I think we all said what we were thinking. I just want to tell you that somehow I feel, looking at this side that will vote for the resolution, into people who are trying to turn into monks, into monks, here to forgive all the sins of the Serb today. You've written written writings. You will be well evaluated in the parliamentary groups. You were almost wonderful. You called for Easter, for a big post, you called for it not to matter at all, that the people aren't big if they want to condemn crimes committed against him, but it's a big one who condemns their crimes, and now you're telling us that we're going to have one declaration on Thursday that we're going to condemn and crimes against us. How are we today a great nation who morally wants to admit our guilt, and what are we going to be when we discuss crimes against Serbs on Thursday? Then what are you going to blame us for telling you that we were supposed to talk about this today? Will we be able to compare your speeches from today to Thursday's speeches? Will it be the same written composition, only instead of words – a Muslim write the word – a Serb? And try to deceive Serbian citizens that you have balanced, only it took two days to pass before you adopt this resolution by the Srebrenicas? You should have accepted our suggestion to bring in one declaration, to condemn all crimes and all criminals, to mention our crimes and crimes committed against us, and to close that book once and for all. We're not going to make a new declaration every few days, are we? What if the Albanians rebel because they're not anywhere in our declaration that we've been washing ourselves from our crimes? What if the Croats rebel because they're nowhere in any declaration? Will you call us back here? Today because of your whim and boss, we didn't even watch that brilliant victory of Partizan, we listened to your written papers, how you fulfill your homework, when you accuse each other of being villains and how you're going to vote that they were other villains. One was, and the other today, one was ruined by Serbia 15 years ago, the other today do not admit to living in Serbia. All of this is one big farce, a big comedy, where you participate consciously, you are aware of your responsibilities, you have many years, each of you individually, will remain anthem on you, this vote will be public, the listing from it will be available for generations to come. If your children or grandchildren are too small to ask you – what are you doing today, they will grow up, they will come into the hands of good teachers, not those you have now set up, who consciously avoid any Serbian victory, which only glorify your DOS, October 5th, will teach these children again, people who love Serbia and do not hate other peoples. Right now you're forcing teachers not to love Serbia, and I really don't know what you're telling them about other peoples, judging by this declaration, they're all better than us, according to you. I don't admit it, nor will a member of any nation in the world acknowledge you that there is a better people than his, nor is that expected from normal and civilized people. Every one of his people loves us. That's why we're decorated. Then we need to determine whether we hate other peoples or not. There is no hatred in us for other nations. We seem to be just serving to be hated by our political rivals. Well, those who hate us, they'll go bad. Those who see how serious we are doing this job, who are well prepared to stand up to us, may be doing something better. Now I'm just convinced that you won't go to the polls lightly...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38111	Five minutes have passed, Mr. Nikolic. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38112	Can I finish my sentence? I'm sure we won't have an election that soon. The ruling coalition before the elections would not talk about Serbia this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38113	Mr. Dragan Shormaz, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38114	Madam Chairman, Madam President, under article 27, you are required to take care of the order of the session, of the session, and when I started here, since the session is over, I looked out the window and saw an incredible number of police officers outside the Assembly building. Did you invite them? I don't know who invited so many cops, if we're doing something in the interest of citizens, people, if that's what the people support, what do we need in front of so many police, from whom to protect us? From our people? I don't know why so many cops out front. I'm interested in who invited them, and why so many police are out front, when it's a perfectly normal working day, doing something normal, we're people's constituents, people have to support what we're doing, there's no problem. I'm really interested in who invited them? Now I can't do my duty the right way. I'm terrified of so many cops out front. I don't know what to do right now. How am I supposed to vote on my conscience now? Do I need the police to force me to vote on the conscience of one of their own, whose, in what way? I don't get it. I wonder who called so many police?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38115	Mr. Shormaz, of course, I don't give orders to the police and of course I didn't call the police, but it's good for everyone to do their job. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38116	I just want to say two sentences at the end. Because we love our country, because we love our people, because we want what's best for them, because we want individuals' guilt not to fall on the whole people, we're going to vote for this declaration. We understand that some people don't understand what this is all about. We understand that some of them themselves are not clear about what they should do and that it is good for their people, but of course they will be judged by the citizens of Serbia. Once again, I call upon all the MPs to vote in favour of this declaration in order to create conditions that we rightly seek the responsibility of all those who have committed crimes against our people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Radeta is advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38118	I'm advertising article 27 in the part where you, Madam President, are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Just now, your colleague Shormaz asked you what's going on, which is why there's an unusual number of police outside the parliament building? Why do you hide the truth from the messengers of the people? Why don't you say what Radio Belgrade has already announced that there's information that a bomb was planted somewhere around the building we're sitting in today? Why, you're under obligation, there's no reason to frown, you're under obligation, no one's asking you to tell us, and especially if it's been noted that the unusual number of police around the building and you're smiling and saying, it's good for everyone to do their job. I don't know if you mean the ones who planted the bombs or the ones who came to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-30-0.u38119	Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Would you like us to make a statement in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set 31 March 2010, at zero hours and 20 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. For those MPs who are leaving, just a notice that we will continue the session that we started today at 1200 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, or 128, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for work and decision-making. Aligrudic can't get the word.
