ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46459	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46460	I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly in the 86 MPs' hall. Dear People's MPs, for the sake of Kurban Bajram, I would like to give sincere congratulations to all the believers and MPs of the Islamic religion on behalf of the MPs and in my personal name, and I want the most important Islamic holiday of cohesion, peace, mercy and tolerance to be spent in good health and family unity. Dear friends, the religious heritage of all of us teaches us to build an ambience in which faith and a human being, open mind and heart, are respected, cherishing the wealth of diversity. Once again, happy holiday. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46461	The esteemed president, the esteemed presidency, as you know, the area of the royal municipality and the wider surrounding area, has been struck by an earthquake of catastrophic proportions of 5.4 Richter scales. It's 5,100 tons of nitrotoluol, and on the other hand, the impact is the strength of one nuclear bomb. Therefore, the damage suffered by 500 out of 1,404 economic operators, where the damage was expressed in millions. Based on field insight and the fact that the Kingdom municipality's economy has suddenly suffered a major material loss, the earthquake-induced damage, the earthquake caused huge damage by several grounds. The energy system has suffered enormous damage, as much of the power plants have been destroyed. Business facilities in which work was carried out suffered. The damage to the objects is large, which will show future analysis. Major damage has been done on technical and technological equipment in earthquake-affected enterprises, as it has been expelled from the working machine. In addition to direct damages, indirect damages were caused by the absence of workers from work, and to resuscitate their own housing facilities. I ask the Government question – will the Government also be able to find the strength to help the Kingdom municipality's economy overcome the effects of the earthquake and quickly restore the facilities and facilities and continue its activity? In this regard, I propose that the King's economy be provided with one-time emergency assistance and directed to economic operators for the recovery of facilities and the removal of damage to technical and technological equipment, delay the return of annuities to the Development Fund for a period of up to six months. At the same time, give a recommendation to business banking to find opportunities to postpone the annuities on the loans made. Credits for liquidity target companies affected by the earthquake, so that banks do not charge a fee from the given and donated humanitarian aid to the city. Freeing taxes and contributing to the economics of the Kingdom municipality for a certain period of time, in order to catch up with time in relaxed conditions and to return to the market capable of all the difficulties and challenges posed by the domestic and world market. I suggest that loans be postponed for a while, or their payments, to farmers who have suffered severe earthquake damage, because where do they get the money to pay off when they don't have any houses? I think the Department of Agriculture should do something here. Staying convinced that you have an understanding of the problems of the Kingdom municipality, please also our MPs and you, Madam President, to intervene with the Serbian Government to help the economy and citizens of the Kingdom municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46462	MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I join your congratulations on Kurban Bajram. Congratulations, everyone, and a day of tolerance. I think she's important and necessary to us in our lives. I hope that as an institution, we will affirm tolerance, not chaos. Tolerance by our understanding involves respect and respect for different values. The question I would like to ask you both Presidents and Prime Minister can in fact be nothing more than an invitation to the responsibility of Parliament and government. The European Commission report, which is very important to us, analysed, among other things, judicial reform. The worst grades are the grades for the most important work we've done. We're interested in the answers to two questions. Who will be responsible for the chaos of judicial reform, and how will this country be set up to solve these problems? Since it seems to us that the on-call culprits are actually the ones who are victims of the ruling coalition's ignorance and political irresponsibility, and here I mean the members of the High Council of the Judges and Prosecutors' Office, I think we need to talk about us. For LDP, it was a very important reform in the judiciary and that is why we supported it, without compromise, defending the values on which democratic and modern Serbia must rest. We have no understanding of the calculations of the ruling coalition, which because of its internal incompetence and impotence, instead of reforming the judiciary, compromised those who within the judiciary were willing to participate in the process, compromised our support and created preconditions for even greater chaos than we were in before the judicial reform began. That is why I am speaking first to you, and then to the Prime Minister, I am very concerned about the government's permissiveness to the pressures which the parliament has been exposed to inadmissible arguments. I have before me a solution to this country's Constitutional Court. The solution is September or October 2009. The first point of the solution followed by Constitutional Court President Bosa Nenadic, Judges Olivera Vukic, Marija Drašić, Vesna Ilic Prelic, Agnes Kartag Odri, Katarina Manojlović Andrić, Stanka Milanović, Dragisa Slepčević, Dragan Stojanović and Predrag Cetkovic. This solution: ''No initiatives shall be taken to initiate the procedure for the determination of non-constitution and disagreement with the approved international contracts of the provisions of Article 99(1), Article 100 and Article 101(1). The law on judges. A request to suspend the execution of individual acts or actions taken on the basis of the contested provisions of the Act referred to in point 1.'' shall be rejected. Please don't include what I quote in these five minutes. Namely, according to the Constitutional Court judges, a year ago, from the provisions of Article 148(1). The constitution follows that the 2006 Constitution does not guarantee the continuity of the judicial function acquired under the earlier current Constitution since 1990. According to the Constitutional Court, the founder in that provision had in mind not only the termination of the judge's office, who was first elected to the judge's office, but also the termination of the judicial office of all judges who were not elected by the High Council of the Judiciary, and that means all the judges elected under the rules laid down in the 1990 Constitution, who were not elected by the High Council of the Judiciary for permanent office. Madam President, we are interested in when parliament will react to the chaos that has arisen due to the unpreparedness of our institutions to respect their own decisions, which was launched yesterday before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which will last for the next two or three years, according to the President of the Constitutional Court, which the same Constitutional Court concluded a year ago, that the law adopted by this Parliament is very clear and that it is not about re-election of judges, which would include, among other things, the arguments that the unselected judges are looking for today, but rather about the choice of judges. What kind of country we live in, President Djukic, if the institution has been humiliated to this extent that it must work today and discuss the next three years of the proceedings it has previously declared meaningless by its decision that has fully supported Parliament's decision, this is one topic. I ask you to schedule a session of the college, one where, from the heads of the parliamentary groups, mostly I attend, in order at least to restore order to the reform of the judiciary, which is crucial to the future of this country. The second issue is the process of electing members of the new High Council of Justice, the most important institutions in the Serbian judiciary. You know that procedure is ongoing, don't you? According to information available as a parliamentary group, at this time the ruling coalition is looking for a compromise (President: Time. C.J.: Please take away my time for this quote) under pressures that are unfounded, illegal and unconstitutional, opens the possibility for judges who are not chosen to participate in the election procedure. I'll quote two members of the two laws, the Council of Justice Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46464	You can't talk anymore. Your time is up. I understand completely, and I think it's absolutely clear what you're asking the government and I've been asked a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46465	No, it is not clear because the judges who are not elected will choose the High Council of the Judiciary by decision of the ruling coalition, and as far as I know, the right to quote does not enter into time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46466	The decisions of the courts are not polluted, they are accepted. To the question that you have referred to me, my answer is a practical agreement with your findings that all those involved in the reform processes and when it comes to the judiciary, of course, it is more than a delicate area of society and a prerequisite for the introduction of order into all other segments, that it is necessary to give support to those involved. In Serbia, as in all other countries, everyone does their part of the job. I accept your initiative to discuss on the subject you initiated today at the college. This is what we can, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, also have an examination of this problem, but I fear that decisions are in second place with executive bodies, or in the Government. MP Zeljko Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46467	Dear Presidents, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to also congratulate Kurban Bajram on behalf of the DSS Group for all the believers of Islamic religion. A moment ago, President, you said, I quote you - the decisions of the courts are not polluted, they are accepted. My question is about something that, in my opinion, should also be depleted, which is the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress made a week ago. Media in Serbia reported that the report is positive, that it gives the sail wind to Serbia for further European integration, etc. With this question, I would like to ask a comment from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Deputy Prime Minister of European Integration Bozidar Djelic and Minister Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice. The European Commission's progress report on Serbia said, among other things, "Serbia has made little progress in harmonising its justice system with European standards, which is a key priority for the European partnership. "In the chapter on corruption," which is very interesting for us, "the Commission states that Serbia has made some progress, but that corruption remains widespread in many areas and is a serious problem. The EC's report on the state of justice in Serbia concludes that 'the judicial justice system only partially fulfils its priorities and that there is serious concern over the way recent reforms have been implemented, particularly the re-election of judges and prosecutors. Progress in domestic war crimes trials remains slow. According to the European Commission's assessment, "many aspects" of recent reforms are causing serious concerns. 'The re-election procedure of judges and prosecutors has been carried out in a non-transparent manner, questioning the principle of judicial independence. The bodies responsible for this, the Whisky Council of the judiciary and the Council of the State Prosecutors, worked in a transitional system, neglecting proper representation of the profession and creating a major threat to political influence," the report said. The Commission adds that the'reelection' did not apply objective criteria developed in co-operation with the Venice Commission, while judges and prosecutors were not heard during the procedure, nor did they receive appropriate explanations of decisions, and the right to appeal only has a Constitutional Court which does not have the capacity to consider them all. '"Look at the miracles, that's all the DSS MPs told you during that judicial reform. "It is said that both the High Council of the judiciary and the Council of the State Prosecutors has not been elected in permanent composition, as well as that no new Presidents of the Court have been appointed, even though the deadlines expired in July and March 2010. "Corruption remains widespread in many areas. "It is said that inside the police corruption is a major cause for concern. The report also states that although the Anti-Corruption Council continues its advisory activities "the implementation of the Action Plan is still slow". The Commission adds that the Anti-Corruption Agency does not work in full, has no permanent premises and equipment, nor is it able to effectively assess the regularity of public officials' property applications, which is why it must rely on co-operation with other state bodies. '"It's only part of the European Commission's report. There's one part about the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, you, President, know very well. I see you've been making some comments in the media. Some of the remarks - laws are passed quickly without public debate. Indeed, who remembers the last real public debate on any bill? Parliamentary issues for ministers are more formal than essential. There are fewer and fewer members of the government who are coming for questioning by MPs, and often MPs remain unresponsive. Only the DSS parliamentary group can provide a full list of its questions it has not received answers to. It just gets declassified, the ministers are gone, some ministers are gone for months. For example, Bozidar Djelic, as Deputy Prime Minister and minister, appeared once in a few months, but in Strazburi and Brussels, we see him very, very often. These are all questions for both the presidents and the Prime Minister -- what about Serbia's judiciary, what about corruption in Serbia, if the European Commission gives an assessment like this, and Serbian media say that the European Commission has given Serbia a wind for further European integration? Every comment is too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46468	MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46469	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've asked several questions of MPs, but there are no or no answers from some I haven't asked, and there are no questions asked by the Government of Answering Ministers. I'd like to ask two questions. First question - these days we have a fierce campaign to help the King. Is it possible to take any help that people separate from their mouths, firms, etc. Pay VAT? Is there any possibility that the government will release the VAT and then buy material that will be invested in the construction and restoration of the Kings? It is impossible for any aid to be taken, VAT is paid, so that the government gets more through VAT than it has invested in the King so far. Secondly, an appeal to the Ministry of Education that students from the city of Kings are released from the obligation, those who are not on the budget, because their parents are not in a position to pay because the economy is in a difficult situation. We have major damages and Magnochroma, a factory-vagon and many businesses that are not spoken of these days. The damage is extremely great. Is there a responsibility for building a medical center that was released in a quick campaign? It was done at one abnormal rate, and there was a crash. A hospital in every city has to suffer an earthquake of this magnitude, and it has to be significantly stronger. No hospital has crashed at eight degrees, or in major earthquakes, and this one has crashed to seven degrees of the MercaI scale, which is inexplicable. So far, we have extensive damage to the hospital's recovery. The second question, very important, I would like to ask, are we now talking about judicial reform, whether the judiciary performs its function or encourages corruption when it allows people who are protected witnesses to participate in the privatisation process and work with government firms and contract with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Is there anything else in the world? Nowhere safe. Now they buy out institutes, supervise and retail are part of a team that performs work for the RS government. How can it be tolerated and does the judiciary want to tolerate it? The third thing was very important, there was one dispute that was kept quiet. I have repeatedly asked a parliamentary question and I have not received an answer to this day. A group of judges and lawyers, in co-operation with the RS prosecutor's office, paid that the government did not know about the procedure that was being conducted, that there were no skills performed, because the government did not participate in this, for Feketic, these are works done during Slobodan Milosevic's regime, and these are extremely small works, and these are not paid to the roadmen, because they were done in the campaign. By means of a group of lawyers, who came from a political party, the travellers initiated the procedure and Attorney-General Sead Spahovic, then, silenced no one at the government and none of the ministers knew the process was under way. Only a budget and public enterprises block has arrived at 34m euros. The RS government paid for it. I remember that only "Serbian Ways" paid over two billion. None of the authorities knew about it. In secret, the whole dispute was played. The D.A.'s got it all camouflated, put away, and the lawyers did 50% with the tolls. They shared 34m euros that they removed from the RS budget. What judge led this dispute? Is that judge re-appointed? Is this corruption and what lawyers have represented the way in this dispute and what are the political options? I know for a fact that activists are a political group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46470	Time. The word is from Ambassador Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46471	First, I would like, on behalf of the SRS, to the believers of the Muslim religion to congratulate Bajram, and to congratulate Orthodox believers on the great holiday of Đurdzic. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, with a four-month delay, the SRS received a notice from the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, which related to the allegations made by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vucic that Vojislav Seselj planned the murder of Tomislav Nikolic said Vojislav Seselj did not have the property charged with the above mentioned, so there is no reasonable doubt in that direction. So, Vojislav Seselj is not blamed, and I would like to remind the advanceds who are thinking that "the accused" is a general term that is used for both the suspect and the defendant, which they can be sure of if they look at the RSCP. However, we have learned that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are absolutely lying about it, but the state authorities have not answered another important issue that was raised in private lawsuits. It is related to similar allegations by Tomislav Nikolic. In an interview with the daily newspaper "Alo", published on July 1, 2010, under the title "Seselj ordered one murder" he stated: "Vojislav Seselj from a cell in The Hague two or three years ago tried to order the murder of a man." Then, in the daily newspaper "Blic" as of July 1, 2010, he said in a text entitled "Nikolic: He wants to kill me because of the collapse of the SRS", Tomislav Nikolic stated: "In time, when he came from The Hague, he told me that he had brought a note and that Seselj had told him – Read it and throw it into the toilet immediately – and Vucic brought that information to me. I told him then – you're not crazy, you're just doing the work that I'm doing. That's how it works. "At the question of journalists, what was written on the note, Nikolic says, "if Vukic wants to talk, he will tell it. ''The whole media hack that is being conducted against Vojislav Seselj, in which they are obviously a lie both Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, endangers not only his defence and security, but also his life, the normal life of his family. It is simply unknown that there are people in Serbia who can lead such a campaign, harass the family of a man who has been fighting for Serbian national interests in The Hague for eight years. What's very interesting is that part of this information is placed through heavy mobsters such as Milos Simovic and Kalinic, who have been guarded for years by the Croatian intelligence service in Croatia and prepared, apparently, for some actions in Serbia. It is obvious, as we have previously stated, that Vučić has established contact with Simovic's lawyers or otherwise with Simovic and that the whole false information has been so placed and tried to create an affair that was meant to destroy the SRS and make the position of Vojislav Seselj worse. However, as you can see, the Prosecution of Organized Crime finally, with four months of delay, after Judge Antonetti, chairman of the Court Council, the President of the Search Council of Three, who chaired the case against Vojislav Seselj, requested that information, stating very precisely that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic made false claims. We ask the Ministry of Justice and the authorities in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to examine these claims made by Nikolic in the list of "Alo" to provide complete information about this too, because they are obviously complete liars related to organised crime in Serbia and that we are simply familiar with what is happening in Serbia. So these data must also be made public in the interest of the public, because no one has the right to play with the life of a Serbian citizen and his family in this way. This is what we require of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and please do not wait four months as you have waited until now. I would like to remind you that when the tribunal in The Hague asks for certain information from the government of the Republic of Serbia, they often receive that information within 24 hours. Judge Jean-Claude Antonetti, therefore, the chairman of the judge, is a significantly higher position than the prosecutor's office, asked for it four months ago and it took four months for Serbia to deliver it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46472	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Miletic Mihajlovic, Esad Djudjevic, Riza Halimi and Suzana Grubjesic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the proposing representative, Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, I have also been invited to attend: Danica Bacanović, Assistant Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Borislav Stojkov, Director of the Spatial Planning Agency, Milan Dacic, Director of the Republican Hydrometeorological Institute, Jelena Cvetković, Director of the Agency for Chemicals, Momcilo Zivković, Director of the Environment Protection Agency, Djordje Milicevic, Deputy Director of the Spatial Planning Agency, Zoran Ibrović, Head of Department and Slavica Stojanović, Senior Advisor and Gordana Petković and Darinka Milovanovic, Independent Advisors in the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Transparent Planning of the Republic of Serbia since 2010. Until 2020. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dragan Stevanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Kenan Hajdarevic, Sinisa Stamenković, Đuro Perić, Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Vladan Batić, Žika Gojković, Bojan Kostreš, Vuk Dinčić, Bojana Stanojević, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezović, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Milidar Delić and Milić, Milić as well of the City of Radar and Radarić. You have received a report from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Government's opinion on the amendments. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 3, point 1) of the 9th spatial plan, which he submitted on 14 October and the amendment to Chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 3, point 1) of the 15th spatial plan, which he submitted on 18 October. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46473	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 speaks of the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020 establishing the long-term foundations of the organisation, arrangements and use of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in order to bring economic and social development into line with natural, environmental and cultural potentials and restrictions on its territory. We, along with the spatial plan to edit the long-term editing and use of space, have added a specific 'and protection'. For what? It is important to say that this amendment has been adopted and that we should now be happy and satisfied that the government has adopted this amendment, because it can only look like a legal order at first sight. However, the meaning of the amendment is much deeper and the point is that, if you had not accepted this amendment, you could have done great harm to the state of Serbia. The proof of this is how, because of the lack of protection of the use of state land, damage has actually been done to the state of Serbia and to the application of the Law on the Spatial Plan, this now and the one that was previously in force, so from 2000 to today, when all of you, the representatives of DOS who have passed and changed these laws, swore that here is the law to solve all possible and impossible problems. I have reported that I would show you on several occasions the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the building land owned by the Republic of Serbia, that you are being undomestic and how much it actually costs the citizens of Serbia. Believe that this is bordering on criminal activity and that it should certainly be taken into account by the state's attorney. When we talked about this law in principle, we drew your attention to such things and to what was actually happening. We warned you that the law on the spatial plan couldn't be passed sitting in an office and running a mouse on a computer. All honours to advanced technologies, but the situation on the ground, not only in Belgrade but throughout Serbia, demanded and demanded that the situation be recorded in detail on the ground first, so that only then the tasks are assigned, primarily to the cadastre and immovable services. I don't know, two nights ago, I heard a Secretary of State say that 90% of the work of the immovable cadasar has been done, and that means that citizens understand that you claim that 90% of the immovableity in Serbia has been recorded. We're saying that's not true. People who listen to us now know on their own examples how many buildings in all of Serbia have been built without a building permit. In the meantime, they got a building permit. In the meantime, they've also been granted a useful permit. Some are even built with both construction and use permits, but not previously recorded in the land book. That, of course, creates a problem for people when they want to register their own apartment. You know, the problem is, when flats are sold and the purchases are made on the basis of a loan that someone gets to buy an apartment, that apartments are cheaper for those who sell them if they're not booked. Even though we lawyers know that off-book property is completely equal to book property, it is essentially a big problem in practice. What would happen if the amendment of counterpart Dragan Stevanovic was not adopted, or what happened while you, as a coincidence, left out to worry about the protection of state land, or state property? I told you ministers, and when we spoke in principle debate months ago about the Law on Planning and Construction, I gave you an example of land around the Hotel "Yugoslavija". I told you nine acres of land was registered to a hotel company called Metropol. Imagine now the "Yugoslavia" hotel, as much as it is, that someone in the privatisation gets the maltenes of an entire Zemun kej in an area of nine hectares, because this plot is never a log and that the hotel "Yugoslavija" was built on that plot that is nine hectares big. That was seven or eight months ago when I asked, and I asked you before the Forester, etc., and we know that until today it hasn't changed and that the preparation has not been done. We were also talking about the Ustasha affair, where again, due to allegedly uncoordinated plans, regulatory plans, spatial plans, etc. What happened was that the one that built the Ustasha building got five acres of land, imagine, in that space for free, because, my God, that's how a building plot should be formed. You know, or you should know, actually, you don't have to know that, you're a doctor, but your colleagues who help you at the Ministry should know how to form parcels and that what's written in some plan there shouldn't be a holy letter. Of course, not to be misunderstood, we are for that and we insist on respecting the design, but back to what I'm doing at the beginning, you have to see on the ground what is the state of the field, and to make the most of what you type on the computer, and what you put together there, and make those pretty icons. Here's what happened now. Somewhere in March or May 2008 when you sold the hotel "Genex", "Genex" apartments, "Continental", or "International", and all this was sold, according to media reports, for 148 million 800.999 euros. This time we're not talking about how this privatisation was done, whether it's real or not, I guess one day it's also going to come to the agenda, but what's interesting, these objects were on a plot that is 1,77 hectares big. Miskovic's company submitted a preparation request and, imagine, the real estate cadasar service in New Belgrade has made a reparation and now the plot is 2.78 hectares. So, a hectare at such a location, Miskovicev won for free. That is the problem, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the ruling majority, and therefore, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr. Stevanovic intervened, not only to make you more comfortable with the law and legal intervention, but to essentially draw attention to this amendment by what you were actually doing and what the bad law on planning and construction means, which means poor application and inadequate application of the law. Mr. Minister, I'm finishing what I told you when we talked about this law in principle debate. I've turned your attention to building a multi-story facility in Zemun by the wall on Gardenlar Street, which is protected by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, where nothing can be built. I got your attention, and you said you'd intervene. I don't know if you are, but I do know that this construction is being continued, that it's being built intensively, and we're claiming that no building permit can be obtained there by all means. We're asking you to question if anyone has given the building permit. If he did, how much did he pay for it? Of course, I don't mean taxes, I mean underhand. If he didn't get a building permit, why do you tolerate it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46474	The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Your argument further strengthens the government's position on the acceptance of amendments. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 3(2), and we believe that the formulation, which was created by accepting this amendment, is far more quality than proposed. Namely, in the position of Article 3(2). The draft law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020 stands – the spatial plan is the basis for defining strategies at the state and regional level to the extent that it has an impact on the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia and its regions. We felt it was not correct to leave out the local self-government units from this formulation, so this Article 3nd paragraph 2 is now said to add the word "local" after the word "state and regional" so that the strategy created at the state and regional level will also now be able to be created at local level. As you know, the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is only a basic plan document, followed by plans of lower order, and among other things by spatial plans of units of local self-government. Why did the SRS, Mr. Minister, intervene to include the words "local self-government unit" in this article? Because right at the local level is the biggest mess in the area of spatial planning, in the area of urban and spatial planning... I'll wait for the minister to apologize. May I continue, Mr. Minister? Thank you very much. You're very kind. So it's just at the level of local self-government units the biggest mess. Why do I insist, Mr. Minister, that you listen to me and spare a few precious minutes of your ministerial time for my exposure? When we discussed in principle the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, I cited an example of the municipality of Rum, related to the signing of a contract on the construction of electricity facilities for the so-called so-called power plants. "Romanian Loop" work area in 2010/2011. A year, through co-financing. At that time, about 20 days ago, I didn't have a contract in my hands, because I couldn't get it. Meanwhile, after a major political struggle and with a lot of resistance, I managed to get a copy of this contract that was already stored in the archives. Now, on several members of this treaty, I will show you, Mr. Minister, how far your efforts are to spatially edit the Republic of Serbia, to legally regulate the area of spatial planning, urbanism, building and protecting the environment, how in vain your efforts are, if you do not deal with the chaos, lawlessness and crime that exists in this area at the level of local self-government. Mr. Minister, this is happening in the municipality of Ruma, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which you of the DS like to say is a locomotive of Serbia's European development. If this is happening in Serbia's European development locomotive, imagine what's going on and what's the chaos in the last cars of our supposed European train. Mr. Minister, look, the contract between Elektrovodina d.o.o. was concluded on 19 July 2010. Novi Sad, "Ectroditions of Ruma" and JP for construction land and roads – Ruma, about the construction of electricity facilities. When you say electrical objects, you only think about setting up electrical cables. This contract does not provide for the construction of a trafo station, so if there is a need, and there will certainly be a need to build a trafo station, it will have to be regulated by a special contract. What's the price? In Article 2, the pre-calculated value of the works referred to in Article 1 of this Treaty is 51,890,000 dinars, VAT-free amount, or 58,116,000 amounts with a calculated VAT, and participation in the financing of electricity facilities is as follows: in 2010 from the budget of the municipality of Ruma will be allocated from VAT 17,700,000 dinars, and in 2011 23,120,000 dinars, totalling almost 41,000,000 dinars. "In 2010, Elektrovodina will allegedly pay, of course, without VAT, because it is not covered by VAT, 10,000 dinars, and in 2011, 7.296,000 dinars, a total of 17.296,000 dinars. What's the problem? The problem is, this contract doesn't show what the real cost of this investment is and how much it costs. So there's absolutely no specification of any kind. In Article 2, there is only a total price. As far as the price goes, no one knows. What's the real value of this job? According to the Jagodina cable factory's precalculation, since 5 July 2010, the value of a eightkm cable is almost 27 million dinars. These are market prices, so there will be no delusions, which exist today in the Republic of Serbia. Excavation of the burial cable costs 1.6 million dinars, only laying the cable is 3.760,000 dinars. If we add this price to the project, about 130 dinars per mile, which is 1,040,000 dinars, the actual market value of this job is 32,400,000 dinars. The contract value, without any specification, amounts to over 58 million dinars. Someone, Mr. Minister, took over 25 million dinars on one job. Whoever took it, I don't want to be a judge, I don't want to be a public prosecutor, I don't want to be a police inspector either. I'm just saying that there are grounds for doubt that very serious and serious crimes have been committed here and that there has been a robbery of state property. When I spoke in the principle debate, I was under the impression that you didn't really believe what I was saying. Now I'm going to give you a photocopy of this contract, so look at how the law on public procurement and the Law on Planning and Construction of Planning and Construction is being looked at, not only by arches and wastes the resources of the poor municipalities in Serbia, but also by the way that the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Planning and Construction. This contract, Mr. Minister, has not preceded any public procurement. The contract was signed without prior public procurement, how much the cable purchase costs, how much it costs to dig trenches, lay down cables, burying trenches, what it costs to design. Not to tell you that in a brutal way, the Law on Planning and Construction has been broken, that this contract has not been preceded by any plan document at the local level, that there is no local authorisation, that there are no projects, there is nothing. There is only a contract under which the municipality will start paying off enormous amounts of money in 2010. Obviously, the actual value of this contract is far less than the nominal value that is placed in the contract. Such examples in Serbia, Mr. Minister, you have as many as you want. I called on you then, and now that you have participated in a campaign for the local parliament in Ruma in November 2008, since you have supported the political set that is now ruling the municipality of Ruma, which is a protagonist of this unprecedented crime and corruption, I call on you to send an inspection from your ministry to determine what really happened and who is responsible for both the violation of the Law on Public Procurement and the violation of the Law on Planning and Construction and who, of course, is responsible for the unprecedented robbery. I'll give you another example from the Rum municipality. It's a inhabited town called the Khrtkovci. Of course, when it is said the Krtkovci, then it is immediately thought of Vojislav Seselj, the UN tribunal, the indictment that was filed, among other things, and the alleged war crimes in Vojvodina, although the war in Vojvodina was not. Now, Mr. Minister, I'm going to apostropherate the Krtkovci in another context, and I think Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic from the DS knows very well what this is about. A few months ago, a stone was established to build a pet factory in the inhabited town of Hrtkovci, in the residential zone. Where people live, there will be a pet food factory, among other things, a dog and cat food factory. In all of Italy, Mr. Minister, there are two pet food factories, which are, of course, completely isolated from inhabited areas. In Serbia, this is not the way it is done, and in Serbia, a pet food factory will now be built in the center of the inhabited town, where people live. How much danger there is for people living in that area, how much danger there is in the environment, about that, I hope, I don't even have to tell you. On the one hand, you will have a huge environmental problem, you will have the fact that food will be produced there by who knows what standards, certainly not by European standards, because if food were produced by European standards, then it would probably be produced in a country, an EU member state. As soon as European producers come to Serbia to produce pet food, they intend to bypass ecological standards. That's one problem. Another problem, a cornerstone was set for building a pet food factory, again without any act and without any document provided for by the Law on Planning and Construction. There is absolutely no urban-plan base, there is no local permit, there are no projects, there is no building approval, there is no work application. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying, Mr. Secretary. Literally, to promote one political party, to promote individuals from that political party, it turns out that everything is allowed in the Republic of Serbia. You can build a factory without any act, you can make a path without any act provided for by the Planning and Construction Act, you can completely ignore environmental standards. You announced, when the Law on Spatial Planning was adopted, that is, when it was adopted last year, the Law on the Construction of Objects, that if you need chickens, pigs, houses, sheds, if they are not raised without a building permit. I can understand that to a certain extent. In many situations, human rights and freedoms and people would likely be damaged by economic damage. From a higher point of view, I can understand the government of the Republic of Serbia's momentum to stop urban chaos and to introduce some order in the area of spatial planning in the area of building objects. Every normal state promotes such order, but we, Mr. Minister, face one phenomenon that I don't think has a panda in any well-organized state. As much as you work as a minister, I support your efforts to legally regulate the area of spatial planning, urbanism, building facilities, protecting the environment, so many local officials in the municipalities and cities of Serbia mock your efforts and do everything contrary to what your intensities are. You have worked hard to convince us that it is a good Construction Act, that it is a good Law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, but it is all in vain, Mr. Minister, because people from your party who run municipalities both in Vojvodina and in the rest of Serbia are doing everything contrary to what are legal norms. I've given you two examples from a municipality in Vojvodina, where you do things that are completely for inspection, which are for investigation, which are for prison: robbery, crime, corruption, disrespect of the Law on Public Procurement, absolute disrespect for the Construction Act, disrespect for procedures, simply, come people and start to make something. Who does that? That's not what ordinary citizens do, it's what political officials do, who run one municipality. Is there any way your ministry could get in the way of such a practice? This isn't the only case in Vojvodina where things like this are done. Since 2007, we have been talking about the problem of pavedging, revitalising roads in Vojvodina, which are done very often in a way that is slightly questionable from the point of view of the law. Such examples in Vojvodina, Mr. Minister, you have many. You have them in the rest of Serbia. The law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Construction of Objects and all possible environmental laws adopted by this assembly, which stemmed from the work of your ministry, will remain a dead letter on the paper, unless you are caught, as the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the people of your party or from the parties of your coalition partners, who promote the violation of the law, which promotes crime, which promotes non-compliance with any standards in the field of planning, urbanism, construction. You have a problem with that. You don't have that much trouble with the text of the Spatial Planning Act. We agreed, the text of the Space Plan Act is solid. There are some gaps. Some amendments you've adopted, some you haven't. All in all, a solid text, but that solid text will experience a fiasco on the ground, unless you have the strength, above all political power, political courage, to deal with people who do things like this on behalf of your party. You can't afford coffee cups in a municipality in Serbia without calling some kind of public procurement. A cable can be placed here without any public procurement. This is where the papers can begin without you having a plan base or a location permit or a building permit, you have nothing. How are you going to convince ordinary citizens, who may not be members of any political party, who do not have influential friends and relatives in the ruling structures, who are left to themselves, how will you convince them to respect the provisions of this law and of all other laws from your portfolio, if the political officials of your parties at the local level are making every effort to disobey these same legal regulations? How is it possible that one legal mile and one legal basis applies to an ordinary man, and that same legal basis does not apply when it comes to political officials of your party, the ruling coalition, or at the end of the party to which I belong, if any. The law must be equal for everyone, Mr. Minister. What we're trying to tell you -- you need to end the urban mafia that exists in all municipalities in Serbia. I've set an example of the Rum municipality. There's plenty of examples like that. You need to start doing your job, sending in an inspection. As I received this contract, so you can get it, so make sure the people who signed this contract right and committed several serious crimes, or I'm right. If the SRS is right, which points to this crime, then apply all the measures that the law allows and get in the way of this crime. It is a shame that in 2010 and 2011, some lowlife in the pocket of 25 or 26 million dinars in conditions when you tell Serbian citizens to tighten their belts. Someone's gonna tighten the belt, someone's gonna give up the essentials of life, somebody's gonna roll 25 million dinars and nobody. Don't let it happen, Mr. Secretary. You have legal authority, you have inspection services. Send them to the field and stop the chaos at the local level. When you stop the chaos at the local level, then you'll be better able to apply the law on spatial planning and all other legal documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46476	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Minister Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is known that I love to enter parliament and discuss the things that life means. This is an important matter and an important topic. I am sorry that it is being debated in the context of a large number of amendments accepted, including the SRS. I will just tell you one thing - of the 40 amendments submitted by the MPs, we have accepted 24 amendments, 16 we are not because these amendments are processed by these accepted amendments or simply are not an integral part of the text of the spatial plan law. You've opened another topic, and I'd like to discuss with you, regarding the implementation and application of the law that we're making here. It is no secret that we are constantly having problems with the fact that in Serbia it is very difficult to apply and implement some laws, because, above all, administrative capacity is lacking and because one comprehensive reform of all those segments that are necessary for the laws, above all, of the Law on Planning and Construction, is not yet completed. Let's just try to structure where the biggest problems are and about to give you the concrete actions we need to take, work. As for Ruma, please hand it over to the D.A. You can give it to me, but from what I hear here, it's a lot more about the alleged problems that occur with public procurement procedures than it has to do with planning and building. If someone entered the works without an adequate building permit, they certainly broke the law and there is a legal penalty, but I think that's what the state authorities are dealing with, so that the situation doesn't happen like a couple of times back to say something here and then it turns out that not all the information was here on the table. I don't want to get involved in this. The problem of construction and urbanism in Serbia, the problem of spatial planning stems from the decades-long neglect of this area and the absence of systematic and strategic considerations in how institutions that are important in these procedures should be reorganised. Today, when we look at the way the construction permits are issued in Serbia, we can say that it is in accordance with the existing law and thank you for praising it, as I understand it, you are satisfied with the text of the law, but you are not satisfied with their implementation, and I thank you for that, and I must say, in a month we will be sitting here with amendments and additions to the law, in which and those things that may not be precise enough and lead to abuse of arbitration to correct in the best possible way possible. The law applies to the territory of the whole country. In some municipalities, the Law gave extremely good results and significantly denied time for obtaining a building permit. Of the 20 largest cities, according to the number of residents in them, the law is best applied in Subotica, Novi Sad and Leskovac and the worst in Belgrade. This is what statistics today show us how the Law on Planning and Construction is implemented. We had a presentation a few days ago of an analysis by the World Bank that defines our country's competitiveness, related to the procedure for issuing building permits. Serbia has fallen three places. However, new legal solutions have not been taken into account and the methodology for Serbia's assessment is still old. It recognises the compensation for the construction land, which primarily means paying for municipal infrastructure as a cost for issuing a building permit. For this reason, Serbia is the most expensive country to issue a building permit, which is not true, but we will correct that methodological error. What is essential is that now, according to the analysis, the biggest problems are in the local self-government itself, in the institution issuing a building permit, but much bigger problems are in public enterprises, which should give specific technical consent and consent to projects, etc. It's the next step in which we need to intervene. When someone comes up with the intention of building anything, he goes to the municipality first to get a copy of the plan, to see if there's a plan base for building what he wants to build. It is the first step and the second step, it has to go to an immovableity or land register in court, where it has not yet been reformed to get proof that it owns the land, or to solve property relations on that land. There are, more or less, problems that may be related to cataster reform that is currently under way. This is the answer to her colleague, Verity Radetti, a huge effort seems to be being reformed. It is true that something has been done at this point that has never been done before in Serbia. Since you worked in local self-government, you've been secretary of the municipality, you know very well how unsolved property-legal relations have hampered construction processes at the level of local self-government. Serbia has been a country where for decades no books have been solved properly, property relations should be done properly. We are dealing with this very seriously now and it is true, and when I promote amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction I will show you the map of Serbia, the vast surface of Serbia is finally covered, above all, by cutting the state of the buildings on it. At this point, we're dealing with property-legal relations. So these are terribly difficult and painful procedures, which must be completed in order to clear everything up in Serbia at some point, at least to know what it is. I think you're aware of that. You can criticize me. Back in two years, I can have part of the responsibility that this isn't over, but I think it's the responsibilities of generations before us, who have not dealt with this problem seriously. The moment you get the base plan and you get the property solved, you go to the location permit and you start doing something that should be the project of that facility. Then you enter an uncertain match with those utility companies that need to give us special conditions, it's electricity, water and sewerage, ground communications, traffic approaches, heating. So these are institutions where it is almost impossible to draw legal deadlines on which they can act and where the most time is lost. What's going to be our idea in perspective is that this is exactly the time we imitate and that, by the rules of silence of the administration, we define a moment after which, unless consent is issued, it's thought to be positive and to detach and allow that procedure to go further. There's a lot of retention, and when all the documents are collected, from the moment you hand over all the documentation until the building permit is issued. In Belgrade, it is only 90 days on average. There is no reason for it to be so, so we will look that, and when it comes to this, we intervene and give one reasonable period until the local administration has to process the complete documentation it has received for the building permit and issue within a time limit that is decent, because every delay in the deadline not only reduces the consistency of our country, but spends a huge amount of money on a potential investor who can't get a permit wastes time. We'll also work to further specify the standard of phase construction, where, in fact, with a location permit and a technically confirmed project of a constructive assembly, you can enter the construction site to dig a basic pit, to provide it, to do a constructive set, to go above zero quota, until you finish all of these necessary procedures that are not important for the very foundation, and as far as heating is concerned, water and sewerage. These are all the things we're trying to do right now with a deep awareness that the problems exist. Now you can talk to me about both the Rum municipality and any municipality, and I will believe you, because daily from the field, information comes to us about the problem of understanding the Law on Planning and Construction and about the great resistance of the administration that some norms of the law, which have taken away their ability of arbitration and forced them to work in clear defined procedures, they refuse to work, believing that they will create a climate in which one will say nothing, and it is because it takes away their ability to live and earn from corruption. That's what the key reform we've implemented in this law is. Through persistent insistence on the adoption of urban action, on respecting all clear procedures and the new definition of time on changes and additions, in which we will finally introduce a standard of silence of the administration and allow the administration no longer to harass you. If you don't give me confirmation by day 30, I'll figure that out positively and I'll move on. With all that stuff, I'm sure we can move forward. I am sure there will be no need for wild construction, and I am sure that one day, when Serbia is covered 100% with planning and urban documents, there will be no more reason for any citizen to say - I am building my own house and I don't care, I have no papers, because I can't usually get permission, I've been waiting for five years. These are things that we will avoid by insisting on introducing order. All these things you're saying are individual cases and I absolutely agree that the prosecution is investigating it. I would like to give an immediate reply to the honourable MEP Stevanovic, so several times so far, you have talked about the ministry legalizing the facility in a protected natural good. The legalisation process is not complete. That facility won't be legalized, because there's a legal basis for it. The fact is that the procedure is returned to first degree decision, but I am sure it will end the same way as all other objects that are located under protected natural well-being. They will be removed because they are located in the water catchment area and it is impossible to be legalized as such under the Law on Planning and Construction. So now I've covered everything. You can tell me about individual problems, you can tell me different types of abuses, the guy next to a culturally protected facility is building a building. It's the business of local self-government. The Ministry of Environment and I personally are not responsible for the slow procedures in issuing building permits on the territory of any municipality. I don't feel responsible for knowing that in most cities licenses are issued quickly. In those cities where permits are issued slowly, it is the responsibility of local self-government, not the responsibility of the ministry. If the law were not good in Subotica, or in Novi Sad, or in Leskovec, no permits would be issued much shorter than they used to be. Where the law does not want to apply, there is a problem in application or there is a problem in misunderstanding, ask them as local self-government what problems are. I'm not in a fight with anyone, I'm just trying to focus on the problem of issuing building permits where they belong, which is local self-government. Those permits issued by the Ministry shall be issued as soon as possible. It's true and it's something you have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46478	MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46479	The right to reply, given that I was mentioned in the presentation of my colleague Martinovic, as regards the setting of a cornerstone in the village of Hrtkovci for the construction of a pet food factory. As far as I know, it's a French-Slovenian-Serbian corporation, a company that has decided to build this plant on the territory of the municipality of Rum. As a national MP and as a citizen living in the territory of the municipality of Rum, I welcome this investment at a time when there are no foreign direct investments, especially in our territory, when there are not many of these projects. Therefore, it is the production of pet food, one respectable European company, the reference company, the most famous and strongest in the area, which will employ several dozen workers directly in the territory of Hrtkovci and, indirectly, a large number of agricultural producers who will provide this factory with repromaterials.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46480	This was the time of the parliamentary group, I did not give you a replica, as neither did Mr. Martinovic. Please, there was nothing offensive, nothing vague, we just cleared up in time. The word is Mr Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Martinovic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club has submitted this amendment and thus pointed to the existence of a problem or, before the failure of this bill, a much greater accent has been placed on the regions, while local self-government is completely...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46482	I'm sorry, but I'll give Mr. Martinovic my word. We haven't moved on to that amendment yet. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I like the lucidity that Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic runs this session, I don't mind. If I could use the time of the parliamentary group, since I obviously don't have the right to a replica. First, I'd like to talk to the Honorable Mr. Secretary. So, you and I, Mr. Minister, come from one part of the Republic of Serbia, who, when it comes to immovableity records, as a system of immovableity records, knew the land book from the Austrian and Austrian legal systems. There's a good sentence about Austro-Hungarian that it was a bad state, but that she had a good state administration and that she had good courts and whatever, after more than 200 years of the creation of a land-book system, they said on the subject, no one can argue that it was a bad system of immovableity records. Chuck, that's my personal assessment, I think it was much more precise, much more quality than the immovableity record system. When it comes to the cataster, I am not talking about the fact that certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, especially the southern parts, had neither the land-book system nor the catastra system, but had a Turkish Tapi system. It's certain there was chaos in this respect, but as far as the real estate records in the land-book system are concerned, it was a good system of immovableity records, and I doubt that you and the land-books as the Ministry had a problem. What you didn't seem to understand, you'd have the whole problem with issuing building permits, or issuing acts that are necessary for building objects, put them in a bad administration, which the English would say "mal administration", but it's not a problem, sir, it's not really about that. Of course, there are problems with the administration, sometimes it's a trom, sometimes it's slow, sometimes it doesn't know the rules, sometimes there's an evil intention, but on the other hand we can't do without saying that local self-government has good lawyers, there are decent and safe employees, who do their job honestly and who are not an obstacle to the issue of building permits. We have a problem, a fundamental problem, Mr. Minister, with another phenomenon. Not with the slowness in issuing construction permits, not with the complexity of procedures, not with the haughtiness and sloppyness of bureaucracy, but with the fact that the people who run the municipalities did not even enter the process of issuing building permits, but began work without even talking to the competent municipal departments for issuing building permits, or prior location permits, did not approach the construction of projects, etc. We have a problem with that. I asked you how do you think you can solve this problem? It's easy, it's relatively easy to solve the problem of the administration's dispute. If someone violates the law to the harm of the citizens, he does not respect the Law, the ultimate solution is to quit and be accepted in his place by someone who is safe. That problem is easily solved. But what about the lack of political will to obey the law? How are we going to solve this problem? I also told you about the cable case and the pet factory, not that the municipal administration is slow, but the municipal administration, Mr. Minister, is completely bypassed throughout the procedure. No one spoke to her, but people began to work without having received all the necessary documents and documents necessary under the Law on Planning and Construction. I'm surprised to see Mr. Ratkovic when he says – we've set up only a cornerstone, as far as I know, factories and houses are made of foundation, not made of roof. How can you begin to build the foundation of a factory without having previously provided an urban plan base, you have not received a location permit, you have not received all the necessary consent of public enterprises, you have no registration of works and you do not have a permit to build, but you have a set stone foundation. How is that possible in RS? Is it possible for someone to start building a house without having previously provided all the necessary acts under the Law on Planning and Construction? It's not possible, as you can't start building a house from the ground up, so it's not even possible to build a pet factory. On the other hand, there's an obvious environmental problem here, which the pet factory will be made, if it's ever made, in the center of a inhabited place where people live, it's an environmental problem, but we're primarily on the field of planning and building objects. We have a problem, Mr. Minister, that you as the Ministry can't do anything to your party colleagues at the local level, who are knowingly breaking and bypassing the law. How are we going to solve this problem? Can you call the president of any municipality in Serbia, which is in the order of your party or of the party of your coalition partners, and ask him – what are you doing, how is it possible to sign a contract to set up a cable without conducting a public procurement? How can you give 58 million and the actual value is 32 million? How can you build a pet factory downtown? There the workers, Mr. Minister, who process that meat for dogs and cats, will have to work under protective masks, then you can think how much pollution it is, and everywhere around there are family houses. The smallest problem is administration, slow, sloppy, irresponsible. That problem can be solved. It is much harder to solve the problem of lack of political will to respect the law. It's a case of Surduke. You gave an example of my colleague Dragan Stevanović for a little while. Do you know what the case is in Surdulica? I ask you - where does this exist in any EU Member State that is allegedly seeking this government? The president of the municipality is the man who owns the construction company. When he made his way from Surdulica to a local community on the territory of the municipality of Surdulica, do you know who got the job? It's his company. The man himself is both an employer and a contractor. He's practically signing contracts with himself. He himself is paying off funds from the Surdulic municipality's budget to build that local road. Where's that? How are you going to deal with that problem? It's not a bad municipal administration in Surdulica. She has nothing to do with it. It is the president of the municipality, as is the president of the municipality of Ruma and, as is the president of the Sava Venac municipality and many other presidents of municipalities in Serbia who, knowingly and intentionally, probably go beyond the legal procedure of their own personal, beneficial interests. You have a problem with that. I don't understand how you think you're dealing with this problem. You can't say – it's mine to propose a good law on spatial planning. What's going on at the local level, let the prosecution, the police and the court deal. They'll do it, but that's what you're supposed to do, because it doesn't end up doing spatial planning when we pass the law, but when it's applied, like any other law. We have an obvious problem in the application of the law. I repeat once again, not because of the poor administration, there may be that, but because of the lack of will of those who run individual units of local self-government in Serbia, that they do not respect the laws voted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and so far, Mr. Minister, I have not heard from you – which is the mechanism to get in the way. That's the basic problem when we talk about this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46484	Minister Oliver Dulic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46485	I don't know what kind of relationship you'd have with the structures of government if you were a minister. I don't know if you'd be afraid to punish or warn your party colleagues, who are presidents of the municipalities, but I don't have that fear. In Serbia, daily inspections by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning are doing their job, and among inspectors there are good and professional people, there are those who may not be, but in any case they follow the orders we give them. When we talk about all this, it's mostly local jurisdiction, local municipal inspectors, or building inspectors. When we talk about controlling the application of the law, then we talk about the jurisdiction of the Republic's inspection. Every year, the inspection file reports several hundred violations, and the rich and the guilty, against the authorities in the city administrations for inappropriation of the law. Among them are extra-party personalities, but among them are party personalities, especially when we talk about the mayors of municipal administrations and the presidents of municipalities. There is no problem that we firmly insist on the application of the Law, and when it comes to respecting deadlines for the adoption of certain acts, and when it comes to respecting the deadlines for entry into the procedure, in particular procedures concerning the adoption of plans and urban acts. We insist on that. It is this insistence that almost 90% of municipalities are currently working on a spatial plan and regulation plan. It never was. At the end of the government's mandate, Serbia will be covered by spatial and regulatory plans. When we started working, it was only 20%. It's a huge success. After that, the issue of issuing building permits will stop, I'm sure it exists as a problem, especially in the planning work. I hope that's when we settle this property. We'll have a fully decorated system. You can't do it without a beating, which is state-owned and which must come from the Ministry, whose head has to be seated by someone who's not afraid to tell his party colleague - what you're doing, you have to respect the law. Make sure that's the case in this situation. Don't think that even within my party, DS, there is any ideological obstacle to modern and normal laws that lead to the introduction of order. They don't exist. If there are any individuals who don't, believe me, they're individuals who measure themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46486	Moving to Article 5. The amendment was filed by a group of 21... You want to follow this amendment? Mr Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46487	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I really don't have any objections to your session, but we haven't finished this amendment yet, so it wouldn't be correct if we didn't get the word, given that there are a lot of loose ends left by the minister. In the context of reorganisation, we do not come to the conclusion that political will exists and that good application of this law is controlled, as well as the conclusion that there are no bound hands by those who want to break that law, Mr. Minister. I have to remind you, it may bother you to give examples of local officials or local self-government, but you also know that there is a fundamental problem in the ministry's jurisdiction over the application of the law when it comes to local self-government. So, what exactly is this about? You know that the city of Belgrade has formed a secretariat because of its political will, which deals only with the legalisation of construction facilities and I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to distinguish what legalization is, what is useful, and what is a building permit, so that there are no chasing concepts in this bill, which is why local self-government is important, and which is why this amendment is important, and let you accept the same. I will remind you that local self-government cases have been transferred to the City Secretariat, I am specifically speaking for the city of Belgrade, that this has been done on the basis of the administration being blamed, that a small number of cases in local self-government have been processed and legalized because the administration of the trom, inexperience, slowness, etc. To make that solution, however, the city of Belgrade has been formed by the City Secretariat for Legalisation, the city's secretariat for legalisation has produced even worse results. In order not to deal with the analysis of these results, but with the existing amendment, I would ask you to write down that the Ministry's emergency and the Ministry's orders are also one of the local self-government, the Sava Venac municipality, put aside, thrown into the City Secretariat for Legalisation, and since you claim that there is no problem in your political party's responsibility and relations with you as minister, according to the individuals of local self-government, I ask you to respond to that as well. If one official processed the case and gave it to the secretary of the city, it was actually done, only to give consent to the use of the building permit and the secretary for political reasons to catch it and tear it up because the location was seen, then you realize that there are huge problems in communication between the municipalities and the city and in communication between the city and the ministry, and even in jurisdiction. I thus make it clear that there is no political will to solve this problem and that the will in general that must have to apply this law does not have a foothold in the ministry itself. I will remind you that, as you say, the building permit procedure is quite complicated, but I will set an example of the President of the Sava Venac municipality, who made the house totally illegal, without any consent of possible urban conditions, even though he handed over a letter to the municipality, a contract with the Building Directorate, to whom he paid a huge fee of 115 thousand euros, that he did the application of works, and that there was no technical reception and that he did not have the same permit, and that the same facility had rented one embassy. So if we're going to solve the problems that are going on, caused by this law, then we have to start from our own ranks, more specifically, from our own house. You, Minister, need to take advantage of your jurisdiction, you need to send an inspection to every place, here, signaling which place it is, it's the President of the Sava Veneto municipality. These are blocks 1 and 20 on the territory of the Sava Venec municipality, for which a new regulation plan is already being developed, no one knows why and why. I will also remind you that the development of a regulation plan is worth about 25,000 euros, that even the president of the municipality, who is an architect by profession, has announced an urban and architectural contest won by his wife's firm and that the case must be solved in the best possible case between you as a ministry and him as a local official or president of the municipality. That's why I'm using the MP's time, so don't blame me for giving you these examples. When you solve these problems in downtown Belgrade, in the capital of one state, then you will certainly not have problems in either Nis, nor in Subotica, or in smaller cities, because the extra location - is an extra price and therefore abuses in these locations are higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46488	Ambassador Tomislav Ljubenović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting under Article 3(2) to which Mr. Martinovic has submitted the amendment. Obviously, there are a lot of problems in this matter or failures in this bill, in which much greater emphasis is placed on regions, while local self-governments are completely unwarranted. It is extremely good that you have recognized, both you and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and have shown this by accepting this amendment to the SRS, that it is necessary to respect the local level more, so that it does not happen at one point because of legal formalities that there is a certain stalemate. More specifically, as Mr Martinovic stated in an explanation for the submission of this amendment, local planning documentation can be brought in line with the republic when there is no planned documentation of regional character. The fact that much greater co-operation and consistency of local and republican levels and numerous examples in practice are needed confirms that. I will relate to a concrete example with which Mr. Minister is very well-acquainted and, fortunately, there is still time for many things to be recognized as a problem by local self-government and for which Minister Dulic shows an understanding of change. In fact, it is about building part of Corridor 10, and the minister himself, representing this law, said that the key region of development is mainly related to Corridor 10. Not by any chance, undeveloped areas do not have adequate transport, rail and other infrastructures and represent areas which therefore have far less comparative advantages. Part of the Corridor I'm going to talk about completely fits into a picture presented by the minister. It's about the part of Corridor 10 through the Grdelička gorge, more specifically, next to the populated town of Predejana. The idea plan that has been drawn up is not appropriate in relation to the real needs. A number of steps were taken, among other things, from the republican level came out with an argument that proves the need to change this project. According to the amended project, by building a loop near Predejan, it would be avoided to remain off-functional, which is the shortest road towards Lake Vlasinski, Crno Trava and the Bulgarian border, which is very important and which is about 25km shorter, and it is known that the Vlassin Lake is of great tourist importance for this region and for Serbia. If more attention and more initiatives were to be given to him in the future, one day it could be a significant source of tourism revenue for Jablanski and the Pcinj County. Also, building a loop would prevent it from stopping the work of a motel that is the only facility in this area, which works and employs locals. The end of his work would no doubt have made it possible for a small population from the twenty settlements that remained there to mass-moving and evict. In addition to these things, which could be classified as local factors, a very important reason to change the original project is savings -- saving money, saving time to build. I will now return to what the minister said when presenting the draft law on spatial planning from 2010 to 2020, that we as a society have a lot of interest in making villages desirable for our lives, not emptying and that the population is moving to cities, whose infrastructure has long been overworked to serve all those living in them. By insisting on better infrastructure, and I repeat, especially the infrastructure equipment of the village and the functional integration of the village with urban continents, this spatial plan has a fundamentally strong demographic, economic, social and cultural aspect. So, one of the most important tasks of the spatial plan is to offer plans that offer a chance for Serbia's successful and sustainable development over the next 10 years, based on principles of rationality, social cohesion and environmental sustainability. I quoted these Ministers' words with the intention of pointing out to the Minister that if he really has the will and the ability to continue co-operation at the local level, which conveys the needs of the population and the republic, on whom the implementation of the project depends, it is necessary to implement this matter to the end. When I say that, I mean the change of project that would allow for the construction of the loop at Predejan. Such a move in practice could show that what the minister said is not just a promise. We all know that this is an environment that is underdeveloped, poverty is growing, in which the population is constantly shrinking. As an illustration of this, I say that the number of children enrolled in the first grade of primary school from Predejan and surrounding places, the surrounding villages from which children go to that school, a total of 20 to 25, and the number of persons who die in the course of the year is closer or greater. The justification for the change of project has shown the arguments presented to the authorities. We've talked a lot about this problem. Now it remains for the project to be changed until the end. I hope that, when it comes to this part of the problem in southern Serbia, the minister will have a hearing in a positive solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46490	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Excuse me, Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46491	This is one case where the residents of one region come together and at least for a moment remove all their party and other problems, believing they're doing a good thing for their region. Of course, in societies like we want to do, such initiatives must not run out of hearing. It is true that the spatial plan of the road corridor, and later on with ideas and main projects, was developed a variant that proved not to be suitable for the development of one region and it is true that by your joint appearance, the mayor of Leskovec, the president of the assembly, the MPs and the public, you managed to attract our attention and we sat down and talked seriously. What I can tell you is this. On our part, a study of the general project with a feasibility study was commissioned by the ministry. If it turns out that this project is really cheaper and helps to develop this region, I promise you that it will be accepted. So, you're on a good track to change the highway and help that region. Of course this has to meet certain preconditions. They're about the cost of costing. It's not just about building a highway, it's about moving the track, it's about the big costs that it's going to take. If it turns out that it is better and cheaper for the state, make sure that this route is accepted, because it would be very difficult to justify it, primarily for the local population.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46492	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has filed a few amendments to the law. Our goal was, above all, to make this spatial plan as serious as possible, to ensure that maximum deadlines are allocated wherever possible, to make the spatial plan as accessible as possible to all citizens, all interested, that the more transparent the resources, or projects that will have priority in building. In particular, we as the National Assembly have a major problem that we receive a mass of reports, and Article 5 refers to a report on the achievement of the spatial plan. The vast majority of these reports are not subject to any serious debate and discussion, nor to the committees of the Republic Assembly, let alone the tide, so also because of the organisation itself in the work of the Republic Assembly, it seems to me that regardless of what the problem is, first of all, the Law on the National Assembly, I think this SNS intervention is going in this sense to discuss the spatial plan once a year. We should've gotten the spatial plan a lot sooner. The funds that have arrived in this country in recent years would certainly have been used significantly more rationally. And we would benefit from that, these projects would be more evenly distributed, we would be less influenced by politics, political parties, individuals, and it seems to me that one of the reasons why it is necessary is that the greater transparency in the realization of the spatial plan and the fact that it is quite wide-ranging, we can agree here, at least we agreed from the opposition, that there is too much political interference in this document itself, in the sense that everything that is envisaged, everything we want to do in these 10 years, will most probably not be feasible. Therefore, we will have to go to priorities in order to ensure a balanced regional development, so that we can ensure that all interests of all regions are represented. Therefore, it is necessary to have full insight into the implementation of this spatial plan. I think that these modest financial resources are also one of the reasons for submitting this amendment, and this could also be understood as an argument, because, if we are realistically, neither the financial capacity of this country nor the macroeconomic, given the economic growth projected, we will not provide serious investment funds for any subsequent period. All of what we might want to do, all of what is likely to be the subject of some political campaign of ruling parties, will be left with many dead letters on paper. A spatial SNS plan should be a permanent document, a document to bring together all the institutions, all the capacities of this country that should recommend Serbia to all investors both domestic and foreign, and that is why we insisted on as much transparency as possible and the greater public. I hope that in the voting day, you will have a little more understanding for all of this, because in the opinion of the SNS, this solution would put the National Assembly in a position to discuss each year the implementation of the spatial plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46494	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46495	I want to report for the SNS amendment. Supporting this amendment to the SNS, I am sorry that the minister has come out, as this would directly address certain questions to him, so I will exercise my right when the minister is there, if it is not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46496	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Lasslo Vargo, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46497	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment that was accepted by the Government is a real example of why this proposal for a law on the spatial plan has certain shortcomings and why this spatial plan is actually a goods with a mistake. I would like to begin by defining the five components, i.e. the basic objectives of territorial development that have been given in the light of this law. For example, it is said: "Basic objectives: 1) more balanced regional development and improved social cohesion; 2) regional competitiveness and accessibility; 3) sustainable use of natural resources and a protected and improved environment; 4) protected and sustainable used natural and cultural heritage and landscape, 5) spatial-functional integration in the environment." So these are the objectives set for this spatial plan. Any law that comes to the congregation’s agenda, above all, should be observed in terms of its contents, so the proposal should also be carefully read and explained why the bill arrived in the congregation procedure. We read the bill and we read the explanation. The explanation makes it clear what the goals are. However, we do not see from the explanation whether it really diagnosed what is happening to spatial territorial development in Serbia. Is this government aware of the degree of stalemate in Serbia's territorial development? So the first of these preconditions is missing so that really these objectives that are proposed can be set with a positive expectation regarding the realisation of these objectives. It is necessary to determine what the problem is and why it is necessary to pass a certain law. This spatial plan is one of the spatial laws that have been passed so far, and hopefully one of the many spatial plans that will be adopted in the future. But what happens to this spatial plan? Simply when there are no concrete situations in the real life of Serbia, which is happening here, there is no way these problems can be overcome. These are nice goals, this is one hope. However, if the goods are wrong, how do we expect the goods to prove functional, and how can we expect some results? So there are system failures here. This amendment is a good example of why there are system failures. Here, that amendment indicates that this spatial plan is somehow coming before its time, before certain acts, decisions, certain legal solutions, which should arise before the spatial plan, so that the spatial plan can produce certain results. We will agree that each law should give some positive results, and here we have read and what are these goals in terms of the results that are expected. What's missing from this spatial plan? First of all, there's no decentralisation. So this is the first of the conditions, if not fully implemented decentralisation of the state, then at least political will and a certain shift in the decentralisation of this state. Second, restitution and denationalization. Third, the return of property to local self-government. Lastly, one functional law on planning and construction. What's the problem with that decentralisation? It is precisely what this spatial plan is expected to ultimately implement through its plans for local self-government and the provinces of Vojvodina and regions. I would remind you that we don't have regions, we have statistical regions, and the overall burden of implementing this spatial plan will fall to these local self-governments. Right away, the next problem arises -- how will these local self-governments, once they bring in their local plans, be able to implement these plans if they don't have the funds? Definitely local self-government doesn't have the means to realize anything, they barely have the means to survive. So how is this spatial plan going to be realized at the bar? How can that be solved? It can be resolved by decentralisation, that if the authorities are transferred to local self-government, these local self-governments are also transferred to certain funds that they can use, their original incomes, and above all to return their property to them. I would remind you that since 1995 local self-government has not been in possession of its own property, that local self-government suffers enormous damage, about two billion euros, since this law has been applied for 15 years, and this also produces a lack of development of these local self-governments, i.e. economic development, employment, job creation, investment and the like. If we add this to the fact that local self-government has been denied and one good part of the transfer of money, which is normally again contrary to the applicable law on local self-government, the financing of local self-government, then we come into a situation that local self-government will need to implement certain spatial plans, without a certain base, without certain financial support, or support in a material sense, which can only result in some positive effects. When we look at this in concrete examples, I would like to give you, let's say, what is the situation in territorial development in the municipality of Kursumli in relation to territorial development, let's say, in the municipality of Zrenjanin, Subotica or in any municipality or city on Serbia's territory. For example, this Kursumlija has huge natural resources, natural resources, it has a Banjo Break, it has the Devil's Varosh, it has the capacity for organic production. But from this spatial plan, I don't see how this bullet will develop, because this bullet doesn't have enough resources, because it's not being transferred enough for ordinary survival by the center. This Kursumlija does not have its own property which could be available to speed up this territorial development, and with regard to the development of the use of the Bane Break or Devil's Varoje, or organic production in the surrounding areas of Kursumlija. The same problem can be seen in Zrenjanin, Kikinda and Sudotica. When these cities and these municipalities don't have the means, they don't have the means, they don't have the property to plan and develop their space, their territory, their local self-government, in which case they stagnate. So it's a system error that just goes on with this spatial plan. You have only a continuity with the previous spatial plan and we expect this continuity to continue for the next 10 years without getting a clear answer to how Kursumli, Kikinda, Bor, Blace and Bolec will develop? How they will develop, without realistic consideration of the situation in Serbia, without serious decentralisation, because there is, in fact, a big difference between the centre, between the state and the citizen living in that local self-government. After all, we have a situation where the citizen doesn't decide at all, that the centre decides on everything, and that the centre does theoretically go into solving the problem without solving it systematically, life-savingly, so that each of these citizens living in local self-government can benefit from it. Therefore, when the whole issue is added to the Law on Planning and Construction, which is ultimately dysfunctional, and here you are, go through the cities and municipalities, and you will see how the Law on Planning and Construction is being implemented, you will see that municipalities and cities have huge problems in implementing this law, because it itself has led to such controversy in interpreting the law itself that these officials at the place do not know, they will not, or are afraid to implement it. I'd like to give you a little example. What's the problem? Let's say, the problem is when you have one apartment building built on one plot of two acres, and in that yard, which is also spatially limited to two acres, you don't have a residential building, so when you're doing a conversion that should be free, you can in that case convert the right to use in the property of the property where the apartment building itself is located, and you have to buy from the state of your yard. If that's not illogical to you, I really don't know what else to say about the indifference of the current Law on Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46498	I thank my colleague, Judith Popovic. I give my word to MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46499	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, in practice, a roof plan document for one country, which should ensure a balanced development of the entire society and reduce internal differences in each area. On the basis of the roof document, as described by the minister in principle, all other planning documents concerning the development of the Republic of Serbia should be produced from the roof document both in urban and in any other sense. The key words used in the description and in the light of this law were mentioned and the debate today mainly comes down to several key objectives mentioned in the law, namely balanced regional development and the reduction of regional differences, then reducing dangerous demographic processes that are particularly pronounced and characteristic for undeveloped parts of Serbia, primarily for southeastern and western Serbia, and then supporting the politicntric development of Serbia, i.e. the development of several urban continents that would be based on development, development of rural areas and sustainable development of the environment. We really don't have anything to add to the description given in the text of the spatial plan, and all these goals that are listed are really goals that need to be pursued by a developed and modern society, a society that seeks to be developed and modern. All these goals deserve to be found in this text. However, the other part of the story remains – how will we reach these goals? It's all nice when we predict and when we record that we have a problem with large regional differences and it's nice to write that the objective of the spatial plan is to mitigate these regional differences, but indeed, apart from that finding, there's nowhere to see how we're really going to achieve it. It is also nice when it is said to prevent the huge demographic discharge of undeveloped areas, especially southeastern Serbia, but there is no concrete measure to how we are really going to achieve it on the ground. Then, the politic development of several major Serbian cities is given priority in this spatial plan, yet it is not said how it will be resolved. The accelerated rural development of the village, which is the bearers of this society, given that the economy is completely destroyed, remains our own villages that will carry the entire development of the country, nor does it say how it will be done. So, from all of this, it can be clearly concluded that the spatial plan is relatively high-quality, that it lists all the goals that need to be pursued by this country and this society, but can be characterised as a list of beautiful desires that can hardly be achieved, since there is no concrete measure, no concrete mechanism, no financial instrument, no legal basis on which this spatial plan will really be implemented in practice. An obvious example of such a thing is, let's say, the Regional Development Act, which defined that Serbia is divided into several statistical regions and that's all. These statistical regions are listed, they are said to belong to this group, the other group, but no concrete measure, any concrete financial mechanism in which one region will overcome its underdevelopment and move towards faster development, towards those regions and regions that are far more developed than, say, the region of Southeast Serbia. In principle, the minister himself noted, and that is a devastating fact for this country, that the differences in development between certain regions range between 1:30. If you take into account, for example, the data for gross national income per capita, these differences are even greater. For example, differences in the average wage between the most developed Belgrade region and the most underdeveloped municipality, for example, the White Palanca or the Shop, ranged from 1:4 to 1:5. The availability of all state institutions is also something that goes back to a more developed part of Serbia, above all Belgrade and Vojvodina, so that no measure, no mechanism exists, and that it is numbered here, which will reduce all these differences, given that our aim is to reduce differences and influence that, above all, the young professional and scientific staff living in passive areas does not go to large centres, first of all to Belgrade, to finish colleges, but also to stay there to work, because there is no possibility of being employed in their birthplace. That's what I was saying as a fact that there are all these goals in the spatial plan that are justified, but the question is, what happens in practice. This spatial plan, however, has not been formally adopted in this assembly, so that from today or the day of the vote, this spatial plan was made since 2007. So, all these measures are numbered, all objectives are listed in this spatial plan two or three years ago, so it would be logical to expect the government and the competent ministries to implement the plan in a certain way already through their legal projects and certain decisions they make. Is that how it works? Of course it's not in practice, it's done absolutely the opposite. One of the latest examples is, for example, the Ministry of Education's decision to approve quotas for enrolling students to master studies for state universities in Serbia, so according to these quotas, which says a nice title, in fact an ugly title in "Eventer News" – picked up all the places. Of the 3,392 wanted places, Belgrade received 2,569 or 76% of the wanted seats. By contrast, the Niski University received 1,047 seats, how much it sought and how much it had received in earlier years, only 411 seats that would be financed by the state. What does that mean in translation? It means that all those who want to enroll the master's studies after basic studies, and not from Belgrade, will have to come, enter those studies in Belgrade, as they will not be able to enter the 411-seat quota. This translates into that all those who are poor and live and gravity Nisa as the centre of Southeastern Serbia will have to come to Belgrade, despite the high prices of apartments, high cost of study, and achieve their desire to further advance and improve and learn, i.e. through the completion of a new university. I think it's an obvious example of discrimination against the rest of Serbia, because nothing better has passed the other universities. Kragujevacki won 215 seats, Kosovo Mitrovica 130 seats, Novi Pazar 50 seats. All Serbian universities, without Belgrade, received three times less than the Belgrade University. I do not dispute that Belgrade University is the largest university in Serbia, that it has the most students, but is not three or five times larger than all other universities. It is amazing that 80,000 students are studying at Belgrade University, and Belgrade University has received 2,600 seats. At the University of Niski, more than 25,000 students were enrolled and received 400 seats. The difference in the number of students is 1:3, and the difference in the approved quotas is 7-1 in favour of Belgrade. What does that look like? What is the principle of the availability of institutions to every citizen of Serbia? What is the equality of all citizens, at least on this matter? There's no better case in any other area. Generally known is the fact that all the investments that occur from the state level are happening within a 50km round Belgrade. We take every year, not to say every month, huge loans from various international financial institutions, but as a rule, almost 100% of these loans relate to building infrastructure in the large centre of Belgrade or the nearest environment. We are talking about the spatial plan that it is necessary to complete Corridor 10, to allow traffic accessibility to all parts of Serbia, particularly underdeveloped, that this will boost the rapid development of these undeveloped areas. What happens in practice? It happens in practice that Corridor 10 ends in the Vojvodina work, which I do not dispute should be done, but let's say, the work on the southern arms of the corridor towards Bulgaria or Macedonia stands. It was built 20 km of highway from Preshev towards Vranj, and it was released three km to function. Yesterday I passed that area, 20 kilometers, only one tape worked. We're just telling stories. We boast that we are building powerful highways, powerful corridors, helping undeveloped areas, and in practice it is completely the other way around. Part of Corridor 10 towards Bulgaria, according to the president of the state, to which we should trust, is due to end in 2012. There's not even a whole year and a half until then. It's been working for nine miles around Dimitrovgrad, and it's probably going to be working for at least another year, a year and a half, until that part's over. When are we gonna put that highway into operation? When that highway will help those people who live in these poorest areas to be infrastructure-integrated for someone who would eventually open a business, a factory, some place of work. Before the elections, whether before the elections of this, next or some in six, eight, ten years, that's a very important question. I'm afraid there won't be any elections for ten years. The latest of such examples is the ratification of the Agreement with China on the construction of the Danube bridge between Zemun and Borca. It will, according to Belgrade Mayors, allow Belgrade to deploy traffic jams, which I do not dispute should be done, but will allow the third Belgrade to take place on the left bank of the Danube, across the road from Zemun. What does that mean? This means that the third Belgrade needs to settle another 500,000 to millions of people. From where? Probably from Southeast Serbia, from the poor part of Banat, that we all move to Belgrade and finally achieve the goal, the communist goal, that all Serbs, when they come to communism, will live in Belgrade. It's done in a very perfidious way. I'm afraid that everything that's happening today is in practice quite the opposite of the declared targets in the spatial plan. Instead of investing that 300-400 million, how much that bridge will cost from Zemun to Borca, for example. Southeast Serbia, in Književac, Pirot, Babusnica, Trgovišnica, Blace, Kursumli, as my colleague mentioned, to keep people living there and to invest in the possible opening of a new job in those parts, we will build bridges around Belgrade, make new subways. Infrastructure, we will enrich the capital, in order to attract the few people living in those parts to come to Belgrade, to live here, because they will only be able to provide work and existence for their family. That's one devastating scenario. I'm afraid this story written in the spatial plan serves only for marketing purposes and will only be a dead letter on paper. A completely discriminatory relationship between the central government and passive areas, I have to call it that, whether someone likes it or not, but if through such examples, through an example of students, threatens the possibility of normal study, then it really burned to the nail. This kind of functioning of the state, which also appeared through a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, who went, imagine, to Piroth, his hometown, and said he did not want to meet with the president of the municipality and the municipal authorities, because the DS is not participating in the municipal government in Pirot. That's what the Deputy Prime Minister says. What kind of statement is that? What does that look like? Is that discrimination? If DS is in power, then in this country you can get everything, if it's not DS in power, then we'll write those down. What do we do that these people don't like Democrats? No, we're gonna force everyone to love them, and we're gonna force every municipality to take power, with its partners, so they can survive. To this extent, this absurdity has been brought to Serbia today, that we must be full political listeners and half-trons of the current government and ruling foreigners, so that we can survive, get some poor dinar from the state budget, and that state budget, gentlemen, is not only filled with the Belgrade cash register and of those people living in this part of Serbia, in the centre, full of all parts of Serbia, so it is our turn to all have the same right to finance our projects in the same way as they are financed in Belgrade. There is no Minister Dulic to ask – what happened to the famous project run by Nis, the construction of the 'Car Constantine' hall, in which the European handball championship was to be held, the qualified parts of the European handball championship? Under preliminary agreements, the state of Serbia was to finance 70% of the construction of the hall from the state budget and the city of Nis 30%. On the basis of these agreements, protocols between the city of Nis and the state of Serbia were signed to launch a story after a few months requiring the city of Nis to finance half the building of the hall and to guarantee that the state would pay its 50%. All was the goal of having these funds taken from loans under the famous Law on aid to the construction industry in Serbia, that part of the funds has been refurbished and used for projects in Subotica, the hometown of Minister Dulic. Minister Dulic was in Leskovac a month ago and man realized that in Serbia and that part of Serbia, Southeast Serbia, the same people live, as they live in Subotica or the northern part of the country. He was completely mistaken. He was surprised when he visited that town. In the words that he lived in error and was happy to meet Leskovac for the first time in his 30s and some years and realized that normal people still live in that town and in southern Serbia, and not some of them live less than they are in northern Serbia. The statement may have been in some way an apology for that opinion, but what happens in practice confirms the earlier delusion of Minister Dulic that he and his government counterparts believe that in this part of Serbia, north and Belgrade, more valuable people live than they live in Southeast Serbia, and therefore the state will, above all, develop those areas, and those living in the poor part of Serbia will release a series of water or make them move and empty territories. Such a dreary picture today is of a country where Serbia is a mother and some a stepmother. We are absolutely opposed to this way of functioning the state, we will not support this law for many reasons. Some of these I cited, and the next elections will show who was right and who worked for the good of the state and who against.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46500	The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many things have already been said in the sense that many advances have not been made so that this spatial plan can live within a short period of time. The fact is, the government itself doesn't make enough to get the spatial plan back to life as soon as possible, if we know that the Space Planning Agency has done a spatial planning strategy in a year. If this spatial plan, according to some of my information, was later made at the beginning of this year for some four months, that it went into public debate, one legitimate question arises – why is it necessary for the government to implement this spatial plan for a year? In this sense, the SNS reacted with one amendment, asking for the Government to be much more up-to-date, to make sure that this really be one strategic document, not only to be useful to the upcoming elections at the republican level, but to get into the situation as soon as possible to plan and that what is available to us, this modest financial means, is for the benefit of our entire people. If the Government does not have this administrative capacity to implement, or plan to implement a spatial plan, what do you expect at some regional level, what do you expect at some local level? There is no doubt that if we want this spatial plan to come into life at all, we're going to have to do a lot of things when it comes to reforming the administration or at least in this segment to implement this spatial plan. If it continues like this, that resources, capital, highly trained people are scattered by different ministries, if it doesn't come together in one place, if it doesn't know exactly who's in charge of realising the program from the spatial plan, the projects from the spatial plan, I don't think there's going to be anything on this spatial plan and on that side. To us, this administration based on some procedural principles is obviously out of date, unable to implement this spatial plan, because it is hierarchically formed, irresponsible, where the exact responsibilities are not known. Therefore, we need to move in a much more serious way to realise these projects, to one project approach, to specifically from project to project, to have people adequately motivated, but all this means is that the administration, that the government is today carrying out the necessary reform of the administration at least in this area when it comes to the spatial plan. As SNS, we believe that this proposed deadline is unacceptable, that it is too large and that it significantly endangers the objectives given in the spatial plan itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46502	MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46503	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every time this majority adopts a law that can affect the future of this country, the standard of living of citizens, the strength and development of the economy, I can say that I am caught by a chill, a certain fear of how it will all look and how all of this will turn out with one incompetent government, an incompetent minister, and often by MPs who vote for decisions that they don't even come into, hoping that they will most of all be MPs who participate in power. Article 9 of the bill provides that the implementation programme, and I guess we could find a nicer word than this side, is where Mr Vlahovic was introduced to our legislation, while he was Minister of Privatisation Bozidar Djelic, while he was Minister of Finance. I don't think we can give up these foreign words, but it doesn't matter now either. So, within a year. It is already under the big question, which the minister and which the government will launch to implement this spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I say that? Because I'm afraid how you made that spatial plan. There's a reason for that, for that fear. This is the Rules of Procedure we almost adopted a few months ago. This regulates the procedure for the adoption of a spatial plan by the Republic of Serbia, Article 183. The Rules of Procedure, which states in that article: "Before searching the National Assembly's session, the Proposal for a Spatial Plan is discussed by committees of the National Assembly and their reports, with reasoned proposals, submit to the Committee on Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. '"Now I must say, we don't have such a committee here in the Assembly. The secretary will now likely tell the president of the National Assembly – yes, but in the transitional and final provisions, senior committees continue to work on those competencies they had when this assembly of the National Assembly was established. This can be applied in some broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary, there is another problem, and that is that this committee that is considering and reporting to the Assembly on the spatial plan does not exist in the Rules of Procedure in Rule 46, so that this spatial plan, as it is adopted, can only be changed until this assembly has changed in its entirety. That board doesn't exist. There is no congregation working body to recommend to the Assembly how to vote. To make matters even worse, a member of the 182nd Development Plan of the Republic of Serbia is considering the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Privatisation, Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. The same story, if we bring a development plan, we can't change it, because when this assembly and this committee disband, under Article 46, there is no, no jurisdiction, it's made up. Now someone can say it has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda. There is, because the Rules of Procedure was written by Mr Dulic, while he was the chairman of the National Assembly and directed the Assembly to adopt him. Bosko Ristic is just a Resavska school, prescribed what Dulic gave him and under the pretext of a working group gave us a Rules of Procedure that we cannot apply. That's the problem, because that's our plan. Will he be able to apply himself? I doubt it, because as long as we do something like this, the secretary will come out and say, "The National Assembly has saved money." Yes, but from the section of the MPs, it was saved, not from professional services, which, due to the appetites of some, penetrated the ceilings. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, consider carefully whether this is what our spatial plan is to adopt, because it is obvious that once we adopt it, it must have been the DS, since it stands above all else, that nothing in the state can change, either the President of the Republic, or the Government or MPs. I guess it's the wish of the DS, but fortunately it's not the desire of the citizens. You'll be convinced of that very soon in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46504	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46505	Dear Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I point to Article 89's injury. In fact, Mr. Minister who is an authorised representative of the RS government for the debate under this bill has not been present in the O.R. for almost an hour, if we are counting precisely on the time of his absence, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we ask you to ensure his presence because it is an extremely important legal act. The MPs of the SRS really want to discuss the amendments that have been tabled on this bill, but any debate and any discussion on amendments is pointless if we do not have anyone to deal with here, as Mr. Minister has not been present here in the O.R. for a long time, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, take measures to ensure the presence of an authorised representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46506	Thanks for the suggestion. Nikola Novakovic, vice president, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46507	Very briefly, this my haiku from here. Just because of the public of Serbia's citizens, we are already discussing, I think, slowly and third hour on the accepted amendments. So first of all, I think of the amendments tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group, as well as other amendments that have been accepted. I do not dispute the right for everyone to have the right to the accepted amendment to speak as long as the Rules of Procedure permits. But if the amendment is accepted, I personally don't see why, despite the minister's obligation to be there, he'll miss something particularly if he doesn't participate in the debate on the accepted amendments. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On Chapter I. Section 1. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposing representatives accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter IV. Section 1. Subsection 1.1 of the Spatial Plan, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter V. Section 1. Subsection 1.4 of the Spatial Plan, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter V. Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan, pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? National MP Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46509	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam President, co-workers of the Minister, the adoption of a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the provisions of Article 35(1). The Law on Planning and Construction takes place under very specific circumstances, which will significantly affect the appearance, content and importance of a solution to further spatial development for 2010-2020 years. In the PUPS parliamentary group, certainly the most important group that has participated in the adoption of all previous plans for Serbia's spatial development has long and responsibly discussed these circumstances, and above all the fact that the spatial plan is adopted in a period when not fully defined and recognised all directions of spatial development for the entire RS territory, given priorities in the process of negotiating on KIM, as an integral part of our country's territory. Secondly, in the space and time when it has not yet been defined and established, what will be the course of building the Master's International Gas pipeline Russia – the EU, thirdly, in the space and time when it is not considered and adopted and very important system laws necessary for the final regulation of the urban space of the RS, and above all, the law on denationalisation, the law on agricultural cooperatives and the law on restitution or the return of nationalised assets. Regardless of this, we believe that today's debate in particular, with the respect of a large number of amendments that have achieved good, technical, political, professional and material reasons, the National Assembly of RS can come up with a useful spatial plan, based on which the conditions for a clear and sustainable bid for entry into a single European urban space will be rapidly created. We believe that the spatial plan basically respected a completely changed political, economic, social and environmental environment compared to the previous spatial plan of the RS in 1996. Despite the global and above shortcomings, the plan has very well recognised all directions of spatial development, including the definition of its priorities, as well as all criteria for responsible integrated implementation of very professional solutions. This law must be publicly praised by the legislator, i.e. The ministry, as well as all applicants of such serious and responsible amendments, will significantly and qualitatively correct the final solution to the proposal for a law on the spatial plan and to the satisfaction and well-being of citizens. Mr. Minister, the government has rejected the amendment to Section 2. "Biodiversity, Protection and Sustainable Use of Natural, Cultural Heritage and Area", Subsection 2.2, "Protect and Sustainable Use of Natural Heritage", which explains: "The Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020 treats protected natural good areas of more than 500 hectares. ''My amendment, that is, by amendment to our parliamentary group, we tried to point out that, in making this position of the government, the government should bear in mind that the Danube space is from the three-way between Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, of 845. kilometres to the end of Đerdapa 2, i.e. 863km, already declared to be a protected natural well-being by the Serbian Nature Protection Institute, which was published in RS' Official Messenger, No 44/97 since 26 September 1997. I note that the Emerald network covers 61 areas of particular and special importance for the protection and conservation of plant and animal species and their habitats, which apply the specific provisions of international Cities for the use of endangered species, products such as fertilised ikra and Kladian black caviar, and to the limit of sustainable development that does not endanger Acipenseridae - sea, trout and ketches, as well as some kinds of eels and herrings that come into our waters. So, we ask you, Mr. Minister, that this amendment be accepted only as a technical amendment which is already nominally used as a protected natural good "Radujevac" from the end of HE Đerdap 2 to the three-way, and in this spatial plan is recognised as a protected natural good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46510	National MP Zoran Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46511	This amendment is a good example to see the diletanteism with which to access the creation of such serious documents. The spatial plan, however much it seems to someone that it's a commercial – if it's said to be something epochal, that it exists from this moment on, is not so. It's something that exists a long time ago. Finally, Serbia received it the moment it became unique from three parts, to remind you, because at that time long ago, autonomous provinces had made it difficult for Serbia to have its own spatial plan, and only in the 1990s had one spatial plan brought in, and all spatial plans should maintain continuity, not only of the plan, but of the continuity of what should be regulated by that document. I have no intention of directing today's discussion and the wish of the MPs to, in concrete examples, dedicate the whole concept of DS, but I have to go back to what it is contained in this plan document. The contents of this plan document are the result of the science of the entire RS. There is also demographics, and geography, and biology, and agriculture, and industry and energy, water and everything that represents the immediate environment of every human being and what needs in some way to plan, to make life, not only easier, but also to allow every human activity to have its own environment that is acceptable to that kind of activity. This example of Mr. Stamenkovic only shows that those who have done this bill and this planning documentation do not actually know that there are some regulations that must be contained in this document. He said very specifically about Gerdap, protected goods and other things. I don't want to say it again. But I just need to draw attention that this plan document should simply show what our potentials are, where what can develop, and only then what – we will. So this plan document doesn't contain funds, it doesn't contain any orientations, it doesn't contain any warrants, but it's based on something that represents the standard and potential of this country and this people. I must say, I now understand these MPs who have shown on concrete examples how much life or those who exercise power can reason something that may not be as bad as some kind of plan document that respects the potential of a certain space. This may also be an example of a food production plant for puppies and kittens in the center of Hrtkovci, this may also be an example when the president of the municipality is asphalting through his company, so these can be examples of whatever you turn around. These examples actually show us how much those in power are willing to honor what they wrote, what they have committed. Today we've been listening to stories about how it is necessary to break up the state, how units of local self-government should become property owners, and then, like Chanka and those, they would sell to everyone, etc. That's not how it's gonna be. That's what you need to know. And how cleverly you run politics, which is that policy -- the election campaign starts, and then the party starts in power or a few of them with construction machines, construction operations, cranes, doctors, eye doctors, gynecologists, and then the gerontological centres, children, and singers, etc. Now you've come to collect. You have to wait, because whoever's lying and stealing. They're in a lie, as a rule, short legs. In a moment, a man is caught in a lie. Now we have a situation that out of 190 and some municipalities, 150 and a few are rebelling against the Republic, or the Government of the Republic, who has not paid out of the budget these non-intentional transfer funds, and then, as we could see, and there is no reason not to believe, because when you shoot each other, the truth always comes out, it is said that because of this, investments for schools, for kindergartens, for local roads, etc. Then when someone in power starts swearing here, except they don't let go of blood, as the law comes first, then we have a situation to say an asphalt base that couldn't be built into the Vrčino, because people rebelled, simply disassembled and transferred to Rakovica, Kiev, and now it can pollute the citizens of Kiev, it has no license, there's neither urbanism nor there's ecological, there's nothing. But there's an interest. That's the interest. Under this interest, everything falls into this country. Let me remind you. Last year, somewhere in January or February, we made some regulations concerning these judicial authorities of ours. He was punished because I said a sentence: "What Bosko Ristic caught on, it was dried up and there was nothing." Here, now you've seen that justice reform has nothing to do with it. And I got a ticket. It's always my fault to know. And you're always right when you don't know or pretend you don't? When you're criticized by the SRS, you smile. And when you get a puck from the owner in Brussels, then I listen to some amazing things, such as Nate Mesarović, Homena or Malović, who say – we will agree with the European Commission on how to handle complaints. So it doesn't matter the law, it doesn't matter what's written here, what's voted on, so let's say it's wrong, no, it's important what the big boss from abroad says, because he's making new regulations and new things, making rules of conduct. How do you think you're doing law enforcement with a man who's like some kind of clerk in Nis and a few years ago he paved one street and in the middle of the street the rest of the gangers. When they asked him how he could do it, he said they did it without permission. The municipality, i.e. the city through its directorate, without a construction permit, made some investment, big money smudged there, didn't agree with the power distribution to move these bandits and now people drive cars like Alberto Tomba, slalom, and at the center of the intersection there is a bandit and it's now square. Can this man do anything normal in the future, in accordance with the law? Any normal man would say he can't, but since one of the party officials in power is a very important link in that money laundering, he will continue to asphalt. What did you promote as a value? Youths in Serbia have a keen desire to be co-workers. When witnesses are associates, they can buy universities, construction companies, asphalt bases, road companies, beat up ministers, slap ministers, step on the highway, go with security to close jobs. Do you know what an associate witness is, a protected witness? Something to keep in the mouse hole. There's a boss here, an idol for young people, 15 cops around him, so now he doesn't close your deal with him. He rents those money on interest, so he buys businesses, and then he ingests them. Do you think people don't see it? People see that, but they don't know how to get rid of those things. These are some problems that are not only hampering the Law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, but all of our regulations. How much does these regulations and laws apply to us? They don't apply anything. Dulic, a poor man, must not send people to Rakovica, 20 and some thousands of illegally built apartments, housing units. I'm not talking about those who made two or three rooms, etc. I'm talking about those who make for the market, launder money. Where's he supposed to send it? Who do you want him to send? He'll kill him. Who? Let him choose. I can't ask a man to commit suicide. I can't get stuck right now and he's got to get hurt, and then it's my fault he got hurt for applying the law. (President: Well, I will ask you anyway, no matter what you use often and stylish figures, to terms "suicide", "kill him" etc., can be understood in different ways, please. ) Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I only have a problem speaking Serbian, you know, I don't use these unknown words "implementation" etc. I speak Serbian in a way that is best understood by the one from Tresibabe and the one from downtown Belgrade. I don't know why that would be a distraction. There's no need for a distraction to be there. I can prove to you now that you've reminded me, you know, the DS has shown an exact one saying that the beating came out of heaven. All those who beat up are now in coalition with the DS, all of them. So they beat them up in 2000 in front of the Sava Center and in the headquarters of the parties and now they're in coalition with the DS. Of course, that shouldn't be a standard for the future. Let's move on. It is said during today's debate – the Law on Public Procurement is not respected. During one year in public procurement, the Republic of Serbia spent four billion euros. When I told you, two and a half years ago, that about 20% was stolen, you didn't believe, when someone from Brussels came to you and said -20%, that it was 800 million, then, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this government allowed two million euros to be stolen a day. Okay, something a little more, two million plus change. Did anyone answer? No one's gonna answer. Who's running your Anti-Corruption Agency? You don't know, the resistance candidate for an MP who didn't pass, and they had to choose him as president. So you're all under observation. They're just watching you. That's all the facts, I didn't make anything up. Furthermore, it says a new law on construction that was brought to be so for the sale of "Bellville," you know, after the sale of "Bellville" until "Bellville" was sold, there's no license. It's been hanging on for a year, so when it's gotten into that, then I can license it now. It's -- it's working everywhere, the law is being applied, but it's not going to work in Belgrade. Of course, it won't apply in Belgrade. Gilas is stronger in the Democratic Party than Dulic. Please, it's stronger. It's stronger. He was the director of the National Office, the mayor of Belgrade, half of Serbia's budget is there, as one ordinary minister, another doctor, who believes must be the minister of construction because he can no longer place his feet on people who fall into the sewer because there is no chess cover. What he can do further in the area of construction. What? To appeal that all the shahs must have a lid, because if a man falls, he can break his leg, and then he goes to him for an orthopedic. It's the only relationship between the profession profession and what's done. Now I need to talk serious. What am I supposed to say? Here's an example of Mr. Stamenkovic. I was just waiting for this amendment. Those who wrote the bill don't know that there are laws that regulate this. Well, Mr. Stamenkovic, it is not likely that the 1997 regulations, which have not been changed in later years, have died in the cutting of the rules. Well, they didn't get hurt. How can the law get hurt? The law could get hurt if we put it out of force here. We didn't put that law out of force. Then everything and everything is written as an explanation. Of course, I'm a brander, I'm a good brander for all time so people know what it's all about. Or for Kosovo and Metohija, do we want to talk about it? Does this bill apply to Kosovo and Metohija? They didn't even think about Kosovo and Metohija. Why? The government reportedly said it is not going to the elections, and then some of the authorities sent a group of state officials, who are receiving salaries from the Republic of Serbia, to be candidates in these elections. Who called this election? Did Unmik call this election? It's not. Then how can a Serb participate in those elections in the first place? I'm waiting for you in a few days for the first customs declaration of an independent state of Kosovo to appear. Then you'll turn the bostan to the board. You've all done this. Now you're whining about Eulex, so who called EULEX in December 2008 - Vlad. Now the government MPs at some session of a committee raise their voice that EULEX is doing everything against Serbs in favor of calling some state. Then Hilary Clinton came to you, and said to you, "So the joint resolution requires that both sides sit down to talk, as soon as the two sides sit down to talk, and they confess to each other." Cheers. You've done a lot, a lot of bad things. I will never forget that, and I call upon all of you never to trust the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46512	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46513	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, but above all, respected citizens of Serbia, here, for barely 45 years, I've been spoken Serbian, a little bit better in Krusevec than in Vojvodina, but mostly everywhere they understand me very well. In addition to speaking Serbian, I understand very well and others when speaking Serbian, but I am much more trying to make sure that in my life I understand the works, not the words, because sometimes, you know, words don't always follow the works. There is one disagreement between people who deal with policy from certain political parties, between what they propagate, between their doctrine and their political practice. I didn't understand the previous presentation, and I didn't understand what it had to do with the law that's on the agenda today, but I also understood very well the messages that someone said at the expense of the Democratic Party of the Republic of Serbia. I have an obligation, as a member of the Democratic Party and as a MP sitting here in parliament, to defend the dignity of both the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and the Democratic Party, which I belong to and which I trust. I also have an obligation to defend the ideals of the Resistance, which I believe today, because I am one of the founders of the Resistance, and I am very proud of that fact, and I am particularly proud to have replaced Mr Zoran Krasic, who was minister in that government. His leader said at the time -- if one leg sets foot on Kosovo, if one boot sets foot on Kosovo, along with its party colleagues, I will withdraw from politics forever. There, 60,000 pairs of boots circled, just at a time when the previous speaker, who bitterly shed tears over Kosovo's fate, was a minister. And instead of putting his head down now and hiding under a parliamentary bench, he gives us moral sermons and lectures on Kosovo, giving lectures on who was in the Resistance, who is a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, and here you might think of Mr Cedomir Cupic. If you think of him, I must tell you that it is a highly morally responsible person who and how well he works in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. When you talk about an associate witness, thank Djuri Suvajdzic, called Mutavi, for introducing a protected witness institution and providing a chance for many who have committed crimes to avoid adequate punishment. It may be possible to avoid a sentence before a court of justice everywhere in the world, even in Serbia, but there is a higher court in which I truly believe and whose existence I also believe. That court is waiting for each of us and will measure our actions, but also our words. I'm going to stand before that court with a calm soul and a clear conscience. There's only one thing I have to tell you, the DS doesn't share any responsibility for what your political party did in the 1990s to this country. The Democratic Party does not share responsibility for your spoken words, nor for your electoral program, nor for what you have done, nor for what you have not done, nor do we ever want to accept the mortgage of your misdeeds and your actions. However anyone classifies your political effect. Of course, what we found in the country of Serbia cannot be crossed and closed and hidden under the carpet, but we must face it. This confrontation can sometimes be painful, sometimes it can be unpleasant, but we certainly won't avoid it. We'll try to fix what you've ruined. That which we have chosen today as a coalition partner, it is not our business, it is a matter of the citizens of Serbia who have trusted us to do so and to choose who we will not rule in this country, because the rule of this country is over, we rule this country. Management of this country involves, first of all, responsibility, not privileges, as you think. I am proud to share responsibility with the people with whom I am sitting in this Parliament and in this government, and I am trying to establish dialogue with you, too, because I think it is necessary for Serbia. Such dialogue can only contribute to improving and finding good solutions to the crisis that this country is in. Once again, the DS has not pushed this country into the crisis it is in today, the DS has not invited 60,000 NATO soldiers to Kosovo and Metohija. Perhaps when you talk about Kosovo and Metohija you should ask yourself, first of all, what was your effect in 1999 and remember your leader who said – if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, I will withdraw from politics. That someone has a boss in the West, you're probably thinking of yourself, because your leader is in the westernmost city of Western Europe, in The Hague, and our leaders are here in Serbia and we create events from here and we get instructions and we agree together what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46514	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46515	With a lot of effort, I'm going to try to work things out a little bit, since everything's been thrown in here. I don't want to spoil Mr. Milivojevic's good candidacy for the main idol DS. I support him. It is indeed the ideology of the Democratic Party. You know, we need to have a little laugh in this congregation. Boris Tadic says he saved the state of bankruptcy caused by Tadic Boris, so it turns out, so these citizens of mine tell me, which they meet me all the time, but well, we're going in line. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, perhaps you are not informed, I am informed, in Western Europe is preparing, for December 7th, one action for all citizens to go to the banks and withdraw their savings, to avenge the bankers, because they have recognised the bankers of the main destroyers of human dignity. There are indications that this action, which is in Western Europe, since we have pro-European types in Serbia, will, you know, because they think it's a European standard, will listen to that player Eric Canton and a large number of Serbs are preparing to reach the counter on December 7th to withdraw their money, between five and seven billion euros. There is a great danger of bringing down the complete system of the Republic of Serbia. If that system collapses, then there won't be a pension in the new year, there won't be social benefits, there won't be a salary for cops, there won't be any for these soldiers, etc. I would recommend that you prepare yourself in time, not be struck by that evil, and then say that Krasic is guilty again of being told in time. I'm warning you, it's somebody else's fault tomorrow. Peace, peace, peace, no one's to blame. In time to tell you. As far as this memorial convention of yours is concerned for 18, I really expect the Democratic Party no longer exists after that, because it is the plebiscite wish of the Serb people. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46516	I was just about to ask you to really get back on the subject when you're taking part in the discussion of spatial planning. Indeed all MPs, including Mr Krasic. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Excuse me, did anyone want to go through the last one? Yeah. ) Dragan Stevanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46517	Yeah, I wanted to go back to the last one. Of course, it doesn't matter, I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I would only ask you to tell us how much time we still have within the MP's group. (President: Group of MPs for three minutes and you for 15 minutes, so 18 minutes total you have. ) Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, our leader was sent to the west by their leaders, but we pray, we trust in God and we firmly believe that our leader will be with us again, and then we will mortgage the misdeed, which in ten years their authorities have left behind Serbia, along with our leader to discuss and clean up. I don't want to take this any further, the time is ahead, we rely, I repeat, on his return. I'd really like to talk about a spatial plan, about a law that's on the agenda, because it really gives a lot of room for power to be criticised in one serious and responsible way. We did this in principle debate, we'll do it anyway today, because objectively today, we're the only ones in the SRS who are doing it. Of course, at the beginning, Minister, let me ask you, if I understand you correctly, you just said that a facility in the area of protected goods will not be legalized? So there are no conditions? That's all I wanted to hear, 'cause I didn't get a chance. You see, Mr. Dulic, we do not criticise you, you are not the minister in front of the group of citizens Oliver Dulic, we are criticising the policy you belong to, a policy that has been in force for ten years. Everything you say today had credibility in 2001, and today it no longer drinks water. After ten years, the DS authorities can't tell us, not you, nobody can tell us – in two years Serbia will be covered by the planning documentation. In 2003, in your name, Serbia was given a chance to be covered by the plan's documentation, you did not understand sustainable development, we are doing it ten years later. Therefore, you represent the continuity of politics, we have nothing against you. You are part of a policy that in a spatial sense sowed or secured the continuity of chaos, as you say you inherited it in 2000. One more thing, it's not true that there are no ideological obstacles. Your party has sown them. The problem of sustainable development in the municipality from which I come continuity has no idea what times, because your party did not want to overcome ideological obstacles and differences and power in that municipality below, in which construction, urban and planous chaos is now made in Kronska and not in Surdulica. Thus, ideological obstacles and how they exist and are promoted by the DS from Belgrade. The fact that he's suffering DS, me or you personally, it's a little more important. The problem is, it's the citizens who suffer it. I'm telling you, with all due respect, whatever you want, the understanding of your personal efforts, your political party, the policy of which she is the backbone, is challenging all of this. What do we wave today? If we were telling a dry story, you'd say – do you have any arguments? We are waving contracts, of course, at cards, which are the opposite of what the government of the Republic of Serbia and its President Boris Tadic are talking about. It's our cruel reality. We have submitted two amendments to the text of the law. They're both accepted. The amendments seem to be of a formal nature, but they essentially show that we understand the importance of space as a strategic resource and that we understand the importance of protecting that space, the same as the importance of using that space. That we were defined to protect space, we promoted in the 2008 campaign. The SRS promoted the idea of Brownfield Investment, first of all. Today we're listening to Greenfield Investments. Yes, they have economic justification. From the point of view of space, they are at some point beginning to be a problem, especially when you have the investment urbanism that we have today in Serbia, which is found in this spatial plan. We have also insisted on local self-government, because we understand their importance in seducing spatial order, urban order in Serbia, but we cannot all come down to the story – a bad administration. We don't dispute the right of anyone to accuse the administration. You've been taking money from pre-accession funds for ten years or less to improve the administration, which is disastrously low in that context. The administration can only be settled if there is a political will, which Mr. Martinovic spoke of. We fear there is no political will. There is no political will, compromises are in place that challenge and dissipate it. It's a bunch of concrete material evidence, what to talk about today. It is said here – you are the partial problems of your municipalities. Here is a regional spatial plan, made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now imagine the absurdity, this spatial plan had to be amended by a group of citizens, that the processor and the promoter accepted the changes, because he had no power to oppose arguments that were valid, and he was an expression of interest, political, party, particular, we don't care, but he was devising spatial science, the concept of sustainable development and came from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which serves us the sustainable development of the European perspective -- honey and milk. He just can't do it. How is it possible for a local self-government municipality to adopt a spatial plan for special purposes, a master-plan for tourism? People who have followed the value and quality of the documents have no objection at this time to these documents, accept that they are in agreement, that they are in a function of space, and then these same people bring a regional spatial plan or try to adopt a spatial plan that opposes that and the centre of a tourist offer, the tourist center is trying to end tourist areas, because there is a political interest in doing so, not justification in the principles of sustainable development, or concept of space, spatial development. Then we have to play politics to make things right. It's one thing that in a serious and concrete way disqualifies every intention of the government to arrange its own space. There are a bunch of other examples. Inefficient local administration, it really is. The debate on this spatial plan of the municipality administration in Surdulica slept through, and essentially refers to an area of vital importance for the whole south of Serbia. They slept over, they brought the map and they put it in the corner. Citizens have to correct and influence this, citizens have to discuss and talk to the processors of this plan. They're interested in other things. You have mechanisms to deal with these things. I invite you from here to, using mechanisms, stop the spatial and planned bahanalia. No one here is against investment, at least the SRS, but those investments have to make sense. Discarded spatial plans, urban plans, if you can -- "We're just a cornerstone laid, what do we care"? Then why the planning documents? Mr. Minister, you said in the principle debate that two things were needed: solved property-legal relations and planned documentation. How is it possible for local self-governments to compete in front of state authorities today for projects and not meet either of these two conditions? How is that possible? Political compromises make you close your eyes to those facts. How can you build a sports hall in a municipality in the city center, a sports hall with 38 parking spaces, where property relations are not solved, where PGR is opposed, etc? How is that possible? Not to mention the economic aspect of this project. Ask your DS colleagues, they're gone, they've brought them to power, they're not there, they're not with us today, they're saying as possible, are there mechanisms to stop these projects? Not to mention, I repeat, the economic aspect of this project that needs a municipality, which has a 400 million budget, to owe another 200 million. Why is it real? To keep the youth in Surdulica? Is the youth holding on to a sports hall? Where did the sports hall in Serbia show economic justification? They're all on the burden of budgets, which is republican, which is local, but there's no power to get these projects in the way. There are a bunch of other and planned and economic solutions that could be solved, but there's no will. Not to mention the project that's just being implemented in Surdulica, the closure of the city center, which is opposed to the plan base, where traffic is closing, and the planning documentation says that there is a special traffic regime, etc., all over each other. I don't intend to challenge the spending of money in areas that are devastated and poored and threatened, but money, if it's spent, if there's already money, if there's a will to solve things down there, then it's got to be planned, it's got to make some sense. Mr. Minister, you've got a lot of problems in administration. You have a problem with commissions that will control the plans that will bury your ministry in the coming months. That's why you gave the law a month. Who knows what will come into the ministry, whose interests in spatial plans will be embedded? If a month is not examined and controlled, it will be valid, or as if it were. You have a situation where the Commission for Plans is also meeting on the PGR (General Regulation Plan) to present certain problems and objections, the Commission accepts and through the record finds these problems, sends them to a processor who generally accepts them unlisted in the document, returns them to local self-government and publishes them in the "Official Messenger", and after all our heads hurt. With such a administration, you cannot build perspective and sustainable development. With such an administration you cannot promise us such an ambitious spatial plan and you cannot promise us that in two or three or five years we will begin in an adequate way to edit the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or every local self-government individually. We're talking today, I don't want to be misunderstood, and I don't want the debate and discussion of the SRS to be understood politically, it's not a message, that the public gets that impression. However, Mr. Minister, we have shown in principle and in this debate today that we understand space, that we understand it as a strategic interest, and that we are ready to meet the challenges that space itself has been carrying and represents, much better than what the current government has done for the past 10 years. If not, the debates would probably be less bile, or everyone would be better off on the ground. In any case, the SRS believes that this spatial plan will experience, unfortunately, the fiasco, because there will be no political will and institutional strength to be conducted as planned on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46518	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46519	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable chairman, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, New Serbia's MPs are also in the debate in principle, and today in the debate in particular will point to certain problems that exist when it comes to the law on the spatial plan. Surely we respect the fact that the minister is trying to do something that has not been done in Serbia for 200 years. We saw today that the minister pointed out the fact that he found a situation where only 20% was solved in this area and that we can see from his exposure how much he adheres to it, that all those who stop the system, regardless of party membership, will be sanctioned. Mr. Minister, I wish what you said today would be so. Surely it is good for the citizens of Serbia, but on one occasion I will express some of my anxiety and suspicion. It's not just a problem with the administration, it's not just a problem with certain mayors. We have a specific situation here when it comes to the city of Kraljevo, and you'll allow this system of merged courts, because if one ministry doesn't work, it can easily freeze the other ministry. Mr. Minister, I'd like to appeal to you, if you're able to, to the Secretary-General, I think it's the Minister of Finance, point out my exposure today and try to solve, at least in the first government, if you don't see yourself before, because this problem is burning for the King, first of all, and because of this great disaster that has hit the city of the King and somehow it's quite worked out that this problem was before this elemental accident. Namely, what's this about? For a long time, there has been no Director of the Tax Administration, the King's branch. Why am I getting in a relationship so all of this can be a problem? It is virtually impossible for the citizens of the Kings to make some recording in the catastro for a banal thing, which is that the Tax Administration, when transferring absolute rights, issues a certificate, and in the catastro, will not bring you a solution, even makes a conclusion where you are obliged to suspend the procedure within 15 days unless you bring that final confirmation that the entry into the immovableity cadasar has been made. We've all been here for months, years, and we want investors to come to Serbia. Imagine that at this point in the King, an investor comes to the King with a greenfield and when something is to be entered and something is to be completed, to make some sales, you for a banal thing – confirm that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights is paid, you do not have a situation where someone can do something. Is it possible, I ask the question, that such a single banal thing must be signed by the director? It may happen that over the year you have more, not only in the King, but in other cities of Serbia, the situation that you do not have a director, is it possible that there is no other person in that branch who is authorized to at least one such, in my opinion, the procedural thing for something already paid, or that those in the catastra, on the other hand, if this situation is, with proof that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights has been paid, yet they accept and bring the solution that something is recorded? I think my proposal and this suggestion are well-intentioned, especially when we're talking about the King right now, where there will certainly be such transactions and fast books, which is extremely necessary, especially because of the situation that there will be new construction facilities and new locations etc. Once again, I urge you to point out the finance minister to this burning problem. He's so small. For what? Because we don't have a director, so if we don't have a director, life needs to stop. I would ask you to use your authority to solve this problem in the King, at least in a few days, for example this week, because it's very big. I tried to point out in my discussion, perhaps a little off topic, a fact that is very worrying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46520	National MP Bojan Mladenovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I will briefly ask three questions for the minister. First, there are millions of illegally built buildings in Serbia, as stated in the Space Plan. It is the state's fault that it was built without construction permits, which allowed it to build whoever it wanted, whoever arrived on agricultural land, national, regional parks and spas, tourist regions, even in the protection zones of accumulation, water supply. The question is – will this government have the strength and will to solve this problem? I would point out that the cost of legalization is very important. I appeal to the minister that the more he negotiates with local self-government units about the excessive prices they have imposed, because if the current prices remain, the very few citizens will be able to legalise their houses, apartments and facilities. The next question for the minister, which I asked at the previous session, to which the minister has not yet answered, and he said we will get an answer in writing, is – where are the money that has been taken from Serbian citizens for years and separated into a housing fund? A lifetime of work has been set aside with the goal of solving its living issue, and in the end most workers have lost both their money and their apartment. So, Minister, I ask you one more time - what about the money from the housing fund? The third issue is about the construction of nearly 5,000 apartments in the Vozdovac municipality. I wonder if the minister knows who got this job of exceptional importance for the citizens of Belgrade? We know that everything is possible in this country, so the owner of the Montero company, which was arrested only a few months ago for the evasion of fourm euros in taxes, gets exactly the biggest construction job in Serbia. Is it possible that out of so much company work, it's the very kind of company that's headed by people who have been arrested for business malfeasances, for tax evasion, who have thus damaged both workers and the state, and have won themselves a huge material gain in a very fast and easy way? Dragan Kopčalic and Dejan Markovic, despite the fact that they have hidden a large amount of money, do not think of paying their workers or paying them the contributions they owe them for a year. The company, which also owes workers, in addition to its debt to the state, also has unmistakable commitments to take over the construction company KMG Trubnik, where 350 workers have been out of work for just a year and a half. Dejan Markovic is the brother of Dragoljub Markovic, the owner of the company "Krmivo Product" from Surcin, famous for numerous malversions. Because of the public, it is clear that Dragan Kopcalic was vice-president of the Municipality of Zvezdar, and on a proposal from the DS, at which time he was president of the Belgrade DS City Committee. Is now a member of some ruling party, probably, because today it is the only condition for someone to get a job in Serbia. Finally, another one for the minister -- why and how does the Montero company, which has tax evasion behind it, a number of other malfeasances, get one of the biggest jobs in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46522	On Chapter V of Section 2. Subsection 2.3. The spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Chapter VI and Chapter VII of the Spatial Plan and of the headings of Sections and Subsections under those Chapters, pursuant to Article 157(5). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. That was attitude 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 2. Subsection 2.1. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 2. Subsection 2.1. The spatial plan of the amendment, with the correction, was submitted by the international MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46523	Dear Mr Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Government did not accept the amendment to Chapter VI under the heading of population, settlement and social development, in which I suggested that the city of Zaječar should be included in the centres of national importance, in addition to the centres already mentioned, with the reason that in the region of eastern Serbia it should represent the capital, the backbone of further development, and that according to the established potentials identified as criteria set out in this plan, this city should be the centre of national importance, although there are currently no 100,000 inhabitants, according to the European criteria for defining the status of the centre. Mr. Minister, the town of Zaječar, before this recession and before all the crisis events in our country, also existed with more than 100,000 inhabitants in the city and the surrounding area, but the relocation and dismissal of citizens from Serbian citizenship took place due to recession and economic collapse and the loss of status features that would allow greater transfer funds from the Republic to this region and a better starting position in investment procedures in the main corridors of our country's development. The relaunch of the now frozen economic resources and the expected transfer of Russia-EU Master's gas pipeline near Zaječar, as well as the transfer of the Agency's headquarters for Regional Development, would contribute to supplementing the population of 10,000 people as soon as possible. On behalf of all citizens of eastern Serbia, Timočka and Negotinska krajina, we ask you to accept this amendment and thus allow all centres of national importance from Sutotica to Prizren and from Zaječar to Užica to be in the same status position, so that other cities that do not have the necessary number of residents, such as Pozarec, Vranje, Novi Pazar and Loznica, are included in the centres of national importance, thus not reducing their right to be statusally marked. We note, in particular, that we do not have to respect EU criteria at all costs, which otherwise has a problem with a large number of asylum seekers, because many countries have a much more balanced spatial schedule for the population, and that Serbia, especially eastern Serbia, Zajecar, has been earthquakes for many years, an unfavorable democratic trend, a child's syndrome, and should not be respected at all costs by the number of 100,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46524	On Chapter VI of Section 2 of Subsection 2.2. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 2.2. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 2.2. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 2.2. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 3. Subsection 3.1. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 3. Subsection 3.1. The spatial plan, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Djuro Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VI Section 3. Subsection 3.1. The spatial plan, an amendment, with a correction, since 27 October, has been submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In Chapter VI Section 3. Subsection 3.2 of the Spatial Plan under Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 1. Subsection 1.3 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Stamenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46525	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has rejected the amendment to Chapter 7. "Sustainable development of the economy, transport and infrastructure" which is proposed to provide for the opening of a number of small mines of mines for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the space plan in the non-metallic mineral raw materials sector. The government had no idea, it seems to me, that from the Danube coast of both artificial accumulations, the refulers daily draw hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of gravel and sand, and that in the Danube coast, the damages to the coast of the two Đerdapac accumulated daily with a stone pile brought from the shores from smaller non-metallic fields, such as the river at Kladova, Vratna near Negotina, Livadice near Golupec, Osojna near Donji Milanovac and others, which are not nominated for small, but also very efficient and rich business facilities. The state of Serbia and its citizens, particularly economic operators, depend on both the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the installation of mineral raw materials into coastal fortifications and travel networks through taxes, contributions and employment of a large number of workers, experts and machinery. We believe that this amendment should be accepted and thus statusably confirm the similarity of these exploitation fields for long-term and safe use. Further development of the possibility of opening up a larger number of smaller mineral raw materials mines through regional and spatial plans of units of local self-government, according to the government and competent ministries, but must be borne in mind that neither regional nor local administrations can provide permits for such sites but exclusively by the Government and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46526	One minute and 50 seconds have been used, but since MP Sinisa Stamenkovic is the subject of the amendment, then it is the time intended to explain the amendments submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 1. Subsection 1.5 of the Spatial Plan pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 1. Subsection 1.5 of the Spatial Plan pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 1. Subsection 1.5 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Both the Government and the Building Committee accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan, the amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. The amendment was also accepted by the government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The amendment was accepted by the government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.3 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.3 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46527	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, the government has rejected the amendment to Chapter 7 of Serbia's "Sustainable Development of Economy, Transport and Infrastructure", which proposed that an integral part of the bill be the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to connect the rail network between Negotin and Vidin in perspective, as well as the railway networks between Negotin, the Đerdap hydropower plant and Romania, as it has existed in the previous spatial plan since 1996. The three-way between Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria is an extremely important international hub, which connects the river Corridor 7 in Negotin with the Ten-Northbound Corridor and the Prahovo public port, which directly connects with the EU line in Romania and Bulgaria with some twokm of railway lines. We are aware that Serbia cannot impose on anyone to accept the obligation to connect with the railway network and facilities from these two states, but we are also aware that the economic opportunity is objective, very large and justified and that it deserves to be an integral part of our plan that would be achieved in the second part of its realization, i.e. of 2014 Mr. Minister, in the light of this amendment, you yourself say that the addition of the network to these railways will be brought into line with the needs and plans of the development of regions and cities, and in this way the possibility of already defined track lines of importance is opened not only for local self-government units, but for the whole country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46528	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VII Section 2. Subsection 2.4 of the Spatial Plan, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment is the floor of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VII Section 2. Subsection 2.6 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VII Section 2. Subsection 2.8 of the Spatial Plan, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment is the floor of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VII Section 3. Subsection 3.1 of the spatial amendment plan submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VII Section 3. Subsection 3.1 of the spatial amendment plan submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter VII Section 3. Subsection 3.2 of the spatial amendment plan, with correction, was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On head IX Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment is the floor of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Would anyone else like to use their right to explain anything about a search in particular, and before concluding a review of the bill in particular? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. On the basis of Articles 87 and 90 of Article 2 and before I set a break, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours of searching the details of the laws that have been the subject of our work in a joint principle search. I set a break, end of the afternoon work and continue at 15.00 hours by opening the afternoon section by opening a search in the particulars of the law which is next on the agenda. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chemicals (specificities) Just to remind the Members of the People's Parliament that representatives are authorised in this item of the agenda and those after it: PUPS – National MP Siniša Stamenković; Parliamentary groups of minorities – MP Bajram Omeragic; MP groups SPS-JS – Zoran Bortic; MP groups DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – National MP Milica Vojić Marković; SRS parliamentary groups – National MP Radiša Ilic. If there is any change in the decisions of MPs' clubs on authorised representatives, please provide us with that information so that we can inform the MPs. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Milica Vojić Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Dragan Stevanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Srboljub Živanovic, Milorad Krstin, Nikola Savić, Radiša Ilic, Vladan Jeremic, Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Sinisa Stamenković and Radoslav Milovanovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the report of the Environment Protection Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, which states: "Article 1 in the second word of the "age" is replaced by'ministration'. "Determining the amount of compensation, as well as how to calculate and pay the same ones, cannot possibly be in the authority of the agency. We consider the ministry responsible and responsible for carrying out these actions. If this were to become a practice, then the future Ministry of Finance, for example, would have to leave the agencies with designing and filling the good part of the budget with fees and taxis. So this is not just about the amount of compensation offered by the government and the agencies and for which the government gives its consent. This is also about how to calculate and pay those fees and the criteria for handling chemicals. So, in your explanation here, you're saying that that's how you're going to prevent self-will from being in a chemical agency, but you've given that agency the opportunity to carry out the entire compensation process. In that case, you will end up having a hard time vetoing what the agency is doing on this matter. Your refusal of amendments shows that in some way and devaluation of the knowledge and expertise and competence of those people who are next to you from your ministries, because we consider it to be their job first, and you actually let the agency do those other jobs. If we apply that logic to other ministries, it would turn out that half of the Republic of Serbia's budget should also be arranged by those agencies. This is one serious reason that both you and the entire ministry leave all the jobs related to protecting the environment to the agencies, because people who deal with such big things are probably supposed to take over from you. With this amendment, I wanted to make it very important to your people from the Ministry and your ministry. Now, it is your will that the agencies, in this case, the Chemicals Agency, teach you a lesson and turn you into mere perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46531	A minute and 10 seconds from the time of the authorised representative have been used. Anybody else answer for a word? If not, MP Nikola Savic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill of amendments and additions to the Chemical Act, where I asked my amendment to replace the word "road" with the word "degree". I've been looking for this for one simple reason, which is also in the previous law, and in this law whose amendments you've now proposed, it's absolutely not clear what this is about. I tried to fix the text of the law with this amendment, specifically this member, but to all those who are watching this law, and especially this member, they are unlikely to understand much. However, I must admit that some things were only clarified to me when I received the government's reply, but through that response, the government has virtually denied a full explanation, which is why it rejected my amendment. In response, the government said that the route of exposure marks the way in which chemicals can reach the human organism. Without what the government gave, an explanation for my amendment's refusal, I really couldn't figure out what it was about. If this is indeed the way in which chemicals can reach the human organism, then you should have put it in the law, not the word - the path of exposure, you have replaced the law with the word - the path of exposure. Believe me, I had a dilemma at one point whether it was the number of times this government has been using and using when considering laws, proposals and anything else that is related to the EU? Maybe it's a translation? We had some other law cases where there were problems with English translation, because whoever translated this is certainly not an expert in chemistry or maybe someone who's a good expert in chemistry isn't a good expert in English? It is probably the reason why the amendment was rejected, which is why this member is completely contradictory and unclear. I will report later through some other amendments, but I urge the present government gentlemen to take another look at and consider this amendment, to look at this article, because indeed this, as it stands in the old bill and in the new one, does not give enough elements to conclude what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46533	A minute and 10 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic has tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this bill, where it is proposed that the third word "evaluation" be replaced by the words "expert assessment". "Amendman proposes the addition of the word 'evaluation' proposed by the promoter. The word 'evaluation' is a broad term and can refer to a layman's assessment that is not professionally related to a chemical field. ''According to the argument of the Government that we have received, in relation to this Article 3, the first thing that can be concluded is that the Government, as a reason for the refusal of the amendment, you can see for yourself, takes a word that has been erased by the Government itself by these amendments of Article 3. So, you, Mr. Minister, have erased the word "calculation method" as if it didn't exist in the law, and in your explanation you have just called upon the word "modeda", as a crucial reason for not accepting the amendment. So you called for something that you'd thrown out of the law on your own. I'm going to quote about what this article of the 12th basic law says, so the viewers themselves can judge whether a professional person or some layman's assessment is needed here. Thus, it is said: "The classification of the mixture is evaluated on the basis of data on the properties of substances contained in the mixture, based on an analysis of the existing hazard data that this mixture presents or direct experimental studies of the properties of the mixture and the comparison of these data or results with established criteria for the classification of chemicals". Those who have heard for themselves can conclude that there is still a need for an expert assessment here, not an evaluation of someone, I would say, persons who may not give a valid assessment of this. I'm saying, the basic motive was to propose a change like this because, well, you deleted that method of calculation from the basic law, and you called yourself, which was a little weird, on that method when you gave me an explanation of why you didn't accept this amendment. I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46535	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46536	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I see that environmental protection really causes great interest always, since the hall is almost empty. The people of the Ministry have more than our MPs, but it's simply a matter to talk about somewhere else. We asked Article 26 after Article 2 to change the intervention proposed by the Ministry and we believe it should be said this way: "The report on the safety of chemicals to the Agency is delivered in Serbian or in the language of some of the minorities who are in official use in the Republic of Serbia." Why did we consider this? Because the Ministry's proposal was that a report on the safety of chemicals could be delivered to the Agency in English. The explanation used by the Ministry why it is possible to deliver in English is very strange. It says – significant financial savings. We're interested in whose financial savings it is, if you say in the same law that someone wants to get a lot before the slow administration represented here, Mr. Dulic, has to be paid? Small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia must pay to be able to get an up-to-date expert assessment procedure. So they have to pay for the agency to do its job, and here you worry about the fact that it's a financially large expense to those who are subject to it. Then you say that English is one of the official languages in the EU, and I ask you, what does that have to do with Serbia? Is Serbia an EU member? It's not. Is English the only language in the EU used? Of course not. What doesn't it say here in German? You explain and say – because we have experts who speak English. Then you discredit other languages in the EU. I'm just having a funny argument that you're putting in front of us here. In fact, here you put English in a completely dominant position compared to other languages, and since you are the minister in the Serbian ministry, one of many, it would be normal to use Serbian and protect it. I'll remind you, Mr. Dulic, that you swore to honor the Constitution, so I'll remind you of a Article 10 that regulates language and letter in official use. It says – in the Republic of Serbia, in official use are Serbian and Cyrillic letters, that is, in point 1. The official use of other languages and letters is governed by law under the Constitution, that is, Article 10(2). Please comment on some of this. I just don't think it's a way to keep your mouth shut because you're a Serbian minister, you have to defend the language that's in the official use of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46537	55 seconds have been used by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the same text is an amendment submitted by my colleague Dragan Stevanovic, as well as a previous speaker, which, more specifically, is required not to be the only language to refer to the official language, although we know that we have seven official languages, as the language to be used in this case. First of all, we asked the amendment to be Russian, French, German, at least Spanish of those seven languages, so that we could observe that basic procedure. However, the backdrop of this amendment from the very urgency that something is changing is an absolute ambiguity, which has led the EU as one of the reasons for using English. I think that English was taught in schools and until there was no EU as a community or used English for other purposes. It is also not necessary to degrade your own language, as counterpart Milica Vojic Markovic said. What is very important to us from the SRS is that the EU is not something that should be the basis for filtering a legal act or a proposal such as this amendment to Article 8, but that it should not be forgotten what the EU has just done to Serbia during NATO bombing, especially when it comes to chemicals and what it has thrown at our country, which are poisonous bombs with poor uranium. What is also important is what should be noted, as it is mentioned in the reasoning of savings, because only people in the Agency know English. It is my duty, Mr. Minister, to remind you of a few things. In time, during the rule of the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's term of office, radioactive nuclear fuel, which stood in unprotected pools and which was not protected, has now not mattered in which direction or way. What was bad then was that the money for that transport was provided by the state, and that fuel went, I don't know in which direction, with an abnormal value and sum of money that was never deposited in Serbia or is deposited, but the public knows nothing about it. What is also worse, is that the government has formed a public company "Nuclear facilities of Serbia", in which it now exports also spent nuclear fuel, and before that it has driven nuclear fuel that has not been spent, therefore, which is fresh, and has raised a 30m-euro loan due to the export. Now I ask Mr. Minister - which direction did that fuel go? As much as it's worth, since it's got plutonium inside it, which uses those larger forces that have the ability to separate from spent nuclear fuel by plutonium, because we know that from this amount that was in the Vinch Institute, two of the least nuclear bombs can be made. I will remind you of Belgrade's ecological problems, and how it is related to English but I have to make some persuasion to understand me, that it is not only an English language that needs to be delivered in English to the Agency and that it is not true that only the English language, they know the Russian language well, because most of them are perfected precisely in Russia, professionally perfected in Russia. So, come on, so I don't spread the story, what's important to me, not only in favour of the amendments but also in general chemicals, when it comes to transport, when it comes to the protection and notification of chemical protection, to remind me of those basic things that are in Serbian. We have an industry on the Sava River in Baric, which is not protected, which says in Serbian that it is not protected, because there is the possibility and the danger of any minor error being poured out in the Sava, and then a series of three kilometers of water filter that feeds citizens of Belgrade in fact clean water. If the industry were to descend into that filter via Sava, Belgrade would be dead in less than 24 hours. These are basic environmental problems that we need to discuss and which are in Serbian. I did this in Serbian because the EU institution does not see through these laws and this percentage of water purification and what was in the previous period in the assembly procedure, it sees no recognition of language as a basic solution to the problem, but rather the work that exists from the government itself, or the Ministry of Environmental Protection. That is why this excuse is that there is not enough funding, in addition to a public enterprise that has raised a 30m loan to drive spent nuclear fuel out of Belgrade, which is certainly a good solution, but is no excuse to include one language or at least five of the seven official ones in this bill, more specifically in this amendment. So much for the amendment, I wouldn't explain it any further, since we'll be reporting on the other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46539	Used five minutes and 30 seconds of MP time. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46540	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9, the amendment that we have tabled refers to the proposal "who", or "who," as the Ministry's proposal states. What exactly did we want to say? We've simply been looking for space to comment on some of the things that are being done here, here it's quite systematic when it comes to laws in the field of environmental protection, which is that a patent has been found here to pack up everything that can go into the field of environmental protection and that under the cloak, we have a lot of work to do, so we're going to have a quick discussion, talking in a united debate about so many different laws, which are important, each of them for the area that they represent, and practically every law is spoken of maybe one minute or another, so you can't say anything about any law at all. This was the case when we talked about these laws both in April/May 2009 and then we had 16 laws plus three conventions, and one of them was Rotterdam, which referred to this area that we're talking about today, so the chemicals, but we didn't have time at the time, because as authorized I had one minute by law and I didn't have the time to talk about such things as this, are we going to say – which or – which. So, does it refer to substance or property? In this Chemical Act, you had two places in article 17. Another case like this, where you were correcting a practical text error in typing. In this Article 9, that is, Article 30(6), the same problem. What promotes MPs should not promote the representatives of the ministry, who are trying to tell us that these laws, which are ahead of us, are good and that we should apply them. It's just that here with that literal error, with that grammatical error, there were major problems in practice, because it's not the same if something refers to the substance or if it refers to the substance's property. It's just very important that these things don't happen in the ministry, and if the Assembly had heard about this area, then one law at a time would put it on the agenda so that we could deal with it, so these things wouldn't happen. The way we're doing it, and this is the fourth time in this government's term that everything is packed into one bag, so it's going to be done by the system -- the grandmothers and frogs are mixed up, so we're going to talk a little bit, that it looks like a debate, and then there's going to be this kind of debate, and then we're going to be able to just stop, when you're fixing something, how silly it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46541	One minute the time of authorized representatives was used. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 where it is said - in Article 11(1) after the word "directly" is inserted, the ally "or" is deleted, and after the words "representative" the words "or representations of a foreign producer are added. Any foreign producer that distributes its products on our market can be said to have its own representation in the Republic of Serbia. It is through this representation that a foreign producer could provide data to the Chemical Registration Agency in the register. With this amendment, the SRS only extends the possibility of how this obligation can be fulfilled, while the proposer narrows it down. In the original version of Article 40, representatives of producers, MPs had the opportunity to do so, and now the promoter has only reduced it to the representative and direct producer. Here, in an explanation for the refusal of the amendments, mentions this so-called. It's a narrow term. I will quote this last sentence: "The proposed amendments in Article 11 provide that only confidential information can be delivered directly or through a representative, where under the term ''representative'' means the representation of a foreign producer, as a narrow term. ''I'm just wondering how this narrow notion wasn't taken into account a year ago when this law was passed, but you included in that basic law a representative of a foreign producer and a representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46543	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic (with correction) and MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted together. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 11 of this Law. We suggest that Section 2 be deleted in this article. You have given the answer, or the government has answered why this amendment is not accepted, but we, thinking this out loud, want to inform the public, that is, the reasons why you bring specifically this Chemical Act, because we know that you have destroyed the chemical industry in Serbia, you have destroyed everything that has been related and important to chemicals, and now you have passed the repeated Chemical Act. Why repeat? And a year ago, we discussed this law. Why is that? It's not clear to anyone except probably the minister. Does this law bring only happiness to the import lobby? You've passed the law for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is also sublegal acts, which should also modify certain terms in this law. Then, it is brought and because of the advisers for chemicals and chemicals, these advisers have their own special story in this law. ''The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the Chemical Act provides for the possibility for foreign producers to apply to the Chemicals Agency for the entry of chemicals into the Register of Chemicals through representatives or representatives. Since the draft law abolished the possibility for a foreign producer to submit a notification to the Agency (only confidential information is required), this also erases the view of the representatives' obligations to submit evidence of representation to the Agency when submitting the application. ''This argument cannot be accepted in the sense that we have imagined that this position 2 is deleted, i.e. confidential information and everything that is related to confidentiality, and you know that confidential data and confidentiality in the world, without speaking - in Serbia, is no more. So we feel that this amendment of ours should be accepted. We're affecting you, which is why we're commenting that you accept all of our amendments that are intended to fix. Last year, when these chemical laws were in place, we commented on the same thing, and you fixed the way they were proposed and how we, as Serbian radicals, proposed those amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46545	One minute and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46546	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, in the light of this amendment, I cannot accept the fact that someone is passing a law in this country or an amendment desiring to spoil, destroy or destroy something. Perhaps through this interpretation of the law and through this interpretation of amendments someone is projecting their desires, their ambitions, their goals, their intentions and the way he is experiencing politics, so he thinks the laws are being passed to ruin this country. It speaks of one who thinks and explains the laws in such a way. The Democratic Party is proposing and passing laws with a purpose and intention to fix something. All the reasons for these laws and the reasons for the adoption of these laws are written in a clear and beautiful Serbian language, a Cyrillic, and when we say the reasons for the adoption of the law, we clearly state why we are making such amendments to the law and why we advocate that these amendments be adopted. It is clearly said, in the reasons for the law being passed, that the aim is to allow for the faster and more efficient functioning of the economy, to make it easier for people to solve problems, to see certain irregularities and shortcomings through the application of the law, to fail and that we really want to help the economy work quickly and efficiently. It's not our goal, like some, to ruin anything in this country. Especially the objective and intentions of the law are not to favour someone or some of them, and to neglect some, because the constitutional principle of equality before the law is the basis of every law. So I cannot accept in the explanation of any MP's amendment that the DS, that the ruling majority in this country, has deliberately ruined something and passed some law that wants to destroy something. It speaks of people, such an explanation of the amendments speaks of those who bring it up, says how they experience the exercise of power, how they experience the writing of the law, and how they would manage the country if, God forbid, they were in a position to really do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46547	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MPs Vitomir Plužarevic and Milan Avramovic have been reported. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 60 minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46548	I apologize, gentlemen, for not understanding my explanation. I don't think they're even at the level to understand everything we're saying. It would be good for these gentlemen to go out specifically on the ground and make sure on the ground all of our thesis and comments that we are today and that we always give as an SRS. We won't even comment on all these misunderstandings, so they're below the level of what we're commenting on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46549	45 seconds of MP time was used. National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46550	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, because of individuals who think they are the protectors of the character and the actions of Serbia, I must remind myself of some facts. In June/July 2005, Serbia signed an agreement with the NATO Pact, the more precisely famous SOFA agreement, in which it agreed that this organisation would be uninterrupted without any restrictions... (President: Please bring the NATO agreement into contact with the content of the amendments of MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'll get in touch, no problem, just let me finish. (President: You must immediately contact, as Article 106 obliges you to do so.) So, in June 2005, Serbia signed an agreement with NATO, which agreed that this organisation should carry out the transport of people, techniques, military war material without any restrictions across Serbia's territory. War material in this case refers to dangerous substances. I'll remind you that in 2005, another political option was in power... (President: National MP, I warn you of the obligation of respect for the member who obliges you to speak on the agenda point. The item of the agenda is the debate in particular, the amendment of MP Vitomir Plužarevic, which reads in Article 11(2), is deleted. So, I warn you, unless you want to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give you a warning measure. ) Well, if you allow me to read the explanation why this amendment is not accepted, then we will make it easier to bond with my discussion. Therefore, for not accepting the amendments submitted by Mr Vitomir Plužarevic, which is said to be deleted in Article 11(2), the following explanation is given: ''Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the Chemical Act provides for the possibility for foreign producers to apply to the Chemicals Agency to register chemicals in the Register of Chemicals through representatives or representatives. ''So here I strictly attach myself to the word - foreign producers apply to the Chemical Agency for the recording of chemicals in the chemical register. With this agreement, Mrs. Comic, the NATO Pact has not filed any demands...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46551	People's MP, please take a look at where and how NATO is, not NATO's Pact, because in NATO's word there's a pact under the letter T, as a 'triti', producer. I now warn you twice that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you are not the only one who has the right to disobey the rules, while all the other legislators must obey the rules. So either you talk about the amendment or I'll have to follow Article 103(7). Please don't throw it away. The requirement to respect all rights implies and the obligation to fulfil my own obligations and I do so by reminding the MP of the provisions of Articles 103 and 106. If you'll continue the amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46552	I'm not allowed to speak, so I'm interrupting the discussion so I won't be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46553	Please do not mislead the public in Serbia because it is completely incorrect that you are not allowed to speak. You are not allowed to abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for to this, both you and I are bound by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on how we have to behave during the session of the National Assembly. MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46554	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, perhaps my intellectual capacities and potentials are not such that I can understand everything, yet I am a graduate agricultural engineer for livestock and I really don't understand everything, but I have learned something at that university chemistry, which is inorganic, which is organic, which is biochemistry. That knowledge is enough for me to tell what's in this law and what the amendments are worth and what's not worth. So I really think it was absolutely right when the decision was made to reject this amendment. We're still here as a colleague of graduate agricultural engineers, not all of us for livestock farming, some of us for warfare or other branches of agriculture, but that knowledge we've acquired in college is enough for us to be able to deal with these kinds of topics as well. In addition to me, there are many more educated, more educated and skilled people sitting in the ministry and not entering the credibility of these people, I believe that the law is well written, that the amendments of this law are also worth the attention, that the aim of the legislator is to facilitate the economy and to speed up certain procedures when it comes to obtaining certain permits, not to make anything difficult. That's why I think it's enough to say that this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46555	A minute and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46556	National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment to Article 12 with a proposal to delete Article 12. Article 12 refers to Article 48 of the basic law, and this article refers to the amount of compensation determined in relation to the number and quantity of chemicals placed on the market in previous years. The amendment proposed by the government refers only to the word "particularly". The amendment proposes erasing this amendment in Article 48, as it is precisely this change that does not change anything in a positive way, except that it is possible for certain chemical manufacturers to take more into account the number and quantity of chemicals to determine the amount of compensation than the risk of these chemicals in themselves. So the accent is given primarily to the number and quantity of chemicals, instead of taking into account the dangers, the transport, everything that can come when dealing with certain chemicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46557	Used a minute and 20 seconds of the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46558	The DSS MPs also submitted an amendment to Article 12 that changes the existing Article 48, but you will see that our intervention is different from the intervention that came from the MPs from the SRS. We believe that the legislator should have accepted it because this formulation of attitude 2 is very precise, and the essence of what the promoter wanted is retained. In fact, Article 48 of the current law states that the user is obliged to pay the Agency compensation, and these are two cases in this article: for the verification of data from the chemical file and for the assessment of risk mitigation measures and the method of systematic monitoring of substance use that causes concern. So, article 48 is talking about paying that compensation. The only intervention of the promoters in these amendments and additions to item 2 is the addition of the word "particularly", which means nothing and does not change. I will read what you have suggested, which is that Section 2 reads: "The amount of compensation provided for in Article 1 shall be determined in particular by the number and quantity of chemicals placed on the market in the previous year". So, it's clear here that the motionor's intention is clear, but yet this attitude is very imprecise. We have proposed to you item 2 which reads: "The amount of compensation laid down in Article 1 shall be determined depending on the number and quantity of chemicals placed on the market in the previous year". So there's no need for anything special. It is clear that the Agency will take that into account because you are introducing the word "particularly". Then why wouldn't it be so precisely defined? What still confuses this member, that's the explanation we got from you. It seems to me that never, like this time and in a set of these environmental laws, are the reasons so vague and confusing, that these reasons simply require reasons. I'll read an explanation why you refuse our amendment, and you're introducing the word "particularly." You say, "In this article the word "particularly" wants to allow the amount and number of chemicals to be taken into account in addition to the corrective factor in the number of chemicals which will enable the total amount of compensation not to increase linearly with an increase in the number of chemicals, thus reducing the burden of the economy." This is very vague. The aim of this word is to "particularly" us in a very clear formulation of attitude 2 and translated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46559	One minute and 15 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46560	Gentlemen of the Ministry, since the minister is gone, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not speak, although I have read these amendments and additions for a long time, I have not been able to find any psychoanalysis in them and any of the designs that have appeared here, while some speakers have tried to defend or attack the amendment that Members of Parliament are doing their job, although it is my profession. So I don't want anything to talk about it because I couldn't find it. I want to talk about this as regards Article 74(2), or Article 13 in amendments and additions, where you say the following – the technical file referred to in Article 2 of this article is delivered in English; and we now say – where are we, in which country are we talking about this proposal of yours? We are not an EU member, it is familiar to you, we may not be, the forecasts are different. I like to talk about some estimates used by the American analytical houses Stratford and others, which say 2035. I don't know if until 2035, it takes us so long to move forward that the Serbian language, which is the official language in this country, we subdue the English language, which I really think England should be very proud of, because it has managed to preserve and impose its language on everyone else, but I would like, as someone who is a National MP of the Republic of Serbia, to make the same effort to preserve the Serbian language for generations, because it is one of the very important elements of the national one, so I would like the minister to remember it, because I kept trying to remind him of Articles 10th and 2. The constitution, on which he silenced last time, is now gone. Gentlemen, I want to remind you that we will probably ask the Constitutional Court to interpret your provision in the chemical law and the biocidals, because I think you're doing something that's against the constitution. Therefore, our amendment is very precise: "The technical file of Article 2 is delivered in Serbian or in the language of some of the national minorities, in accordance with the law." You cannot use the laws of another country, except for the laws of the country of Serbia, whose ministers and you civil servants, as well as I am a national MP, so I ask you not to bring here the amendments and additions of this type here next time, not because I have something against English, German, Spanish or Italian, no, I respect them very much, some of them I speak, some I like to hear and listen to, but I am a National MP of the Republic of Serbia and I insist that in Serbian institutions speaking the language that requires the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46561	One minute of the mandated representatives of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46562	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the SRS - Professor Vojislav Seselj, with the aim of improving this law, a law aimed at protecting human health and protecting the environment. However, in all these discussions about this law, which my colleagues were talking about, it seems to me that it's quite unprofessional or even, I mean, in some way, it didn't want to get into the heart of this law's problems. I spent three decades in the chemical industry, and I have to tell you honestly, these are very important problems, and I thought that there would be a change in this law of certain members, but unfortunately that didn't happen. The colleagues talked about certain regulations, as they said – whether it should be in Serbian, whether it should be in English or Spanish, or Russian, so you should know well, that yet Serbia, like colleagues said, is not in the EU and we should only use those languages with which Serbia has friendly relations and with countries from which we import certain chemical raw materials. If you are importing chemical raw materials from Russia, it will not come from Russia written in English so that we can interpret them here, that is to say, our regulations. You must, however, dear colleagues, you sitting here from the ministry to understand, because counterpart Vita Plužarevic tried to explain to you that there is no chemical industry in Serbia today. If you think that the chemical industry in Serbia is that if certain chemicals are repacked or by means of a particular methodology, I was one of the designers of a particular technology that is very much related to the chemical industry, and I honestly must tell you, that today the chemical industry in Serbia is gone, it is, by the way, destroyed. What is today trying to do with this legal act is to allow a wide range of imports of certain, not raw materials, but certain EU products, probably where they could not find their way sooner, in other countries. I also consider this amendment an attempt to improve this law, to realize that it is not only in the use of English throughout Europe, but also in the old languages of Spanish, German, Russian, etc., countries that have a well-developed chemical industry in their composition. If you speak English, I ask you – is the chemical industry developed in England? It is not, as far as I know, although I am not an expert in this area, but surely in other European countries there is a developed chemical industry, and normally we have to improve transport by this law, because if you look, as firemen who, thank God, we pay or in certain companies are on duty all the time, their success is the greatest if there is never a fire. This law wants no ecological disaster to occur, because * as it happens, it has consequences for a few dozen years later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46563	Two minutes of MP time was used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46564	Dear gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, my fellow Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, is a Bulgarian country that has become an EU member, just like Romania. Just before the two countries joined the EU, wanting these two countries to join the great European people's family as soon as possible, parliaments there were far behind with the legislation. It was necessary to pass many more laws. Parliament worked day and night. Then the opposition and positions both in Bulgaria and Romania agreed to adopt certain legal regulations in English, in English. I am a man from Kruševec, and I absolutely advocate the preservation of Serbian and Cyrillic letters. Of course, I will always advocate that language be in official use in the state of Serbia, but here it is imputed to the ruling majority that we actually want to bring some acts into English. For the sake of the truth, I will just read what the controversial amendment reads - a report on the safety of chemicals is delivered to the Agency in Serbian and can also be delivered in English, as one of the languages in official use in the EU. So it's said as one of the languages in official use in the EU. Now someone says that England and Britain do not have a chemical industry, whether or not they do not know the structure of the economy of the EU and the UK or does not know that English is also used as an official language throughout the world in many countries, and even those friendly ones that many now refer to us. It may not be known that Japanese also use English when chemicals mark not only in Japanese but also in English, that English is also used by Swiss people who have three official languages in use, none of which are English. They use French, Italian and German, but they use English. It is not the aim and intention of the legislator to spoil the purity and beauty of our language, to introduce foreign words and terminology, but rather the aim of the legislator to provide the Agency with speed and efficiency in working with EU Member States, which we are certainly seeking. The Republic of Serbia wants to be an EU member. It is not the wish of the DS, it is not the wish of a political party, of a political group. There has already been a broad consensus among the citizens of this country. By yesterday and parts of the SRS, which have split today, they want Serbia to be part of the EU, and that is a great victory for the European idea, and that is a great victory for efforts and efforts to explain to citizens what it is that is good that the EU provides for Serbian citizens. Once again, I underline, truths for the sake of, intent and purpose of the legislator is not to spoil, dirty the purity of the Serbian language. It aims to ensure speed in the work of the agency in communication with EU members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46565	Four minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Time is available for 57 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46566	There's no problem here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr Milivojevic sees. The problem is something else. The problem is Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly and unequivocally says that in official use is a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter and languages of the people and peoples who live in it. The problem is something else. The problem is that we respect neither the state of Serbia nor the Constitution of Serbia. When I say to me, I mean not the SRS, but the committees, certain groups that work in this National Assembly. We had a recent chance to get a report from the European Commission in English. I have also asked the representatives of the European Commission and the Committee, because I am not obliged to speak English. I'm obliged to know Serbian. We were sent here to the National Assembly by citizens of Serbia and something that fell into my eyes, which is that the Senate to the Committee on European Integration, when recently the Vice-President of the Council of Europe, Hungary, Mr Laslo Varga, who is otherwise Hungarian, whose native language is Hungarian, respecting this institution, with a man who also has a conversation in Serbian, translates from Serbian to Hungarian, and when the guest answers the translator translates into Serbian. At the same time, some members of the Committee found it appropriate to speak English at the same meeting. I could have, say, in French, in Russian, known these languages, but I believe that the respect of this institution, the respect of the Constitution, especially of the 10th Constitution, is surprising to me that through the laws it passes English as a semi-official language in Serbia. Gentlemen, that peasant who buys these chemical products and takes them out to the field the next day to protect their crops, doesn't have to know English. You are required and the importer is required to translate the instructions for use into Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46567	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The next MP, Radisa Ilic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join in this language controversy and, for a little while, my colleague Milivojevic mentioned both Bulgaria and Romania, respecting that in 2007, they became EU members, but I am convinced, and that also fellow MPs know the public in Serbia, I believe that the situation in Serbia is better than in Bulgaria, rather than in Romania. Serbia, we see today, is neither a candidate for an EU member, let alone a member, especially when it comes to laws and standards in the environment. Those who traveled through Bulgaria, through Romania, well know. We also know what the European Commission reports on corruption in Bulgaria and Romania are like.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46569	People's MP, I remind you, you're talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46570	I'm talking about exactly what Milivojevic was saying, so Bulgaria and Romania, for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46571	National MP, you have the right to speak as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, you have not been given the right to a replica, so I ask you to speak of the agenda, i.e. amending to Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46572	Here is the controversy around the English language and these reports that can be delivered in English, so it is mentioned here that the MPs in Bulgaria, the position and the opposition, were able to speed up these pro-European laws that were even untranslated, in English, so that Bulgarians could adopt the law so that they would all trim within a week, they wouldn't know what they had voted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46573	The minutes and 30 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which has been written, is intended to point out one indetermination of the law and its inadequacy, and not, as it is written in the explanation, that this amendment provides for the abolition of inspection oversight. If someone in the ministry had read this amendment and its explanation would probably have seen that the text of the reasoning stands – we believe it is important, but that the inspection cannot determine that it is someone else's job. So, at no point did we dispute the importance of the inspection, but we talked about something else, but the amendment and addition of this law only gives the inspector formal jurisdiction, and basically nothing changes. That was our grudge. What's going on with the Chemical Agency? Why isn't she the one to determine whether your data is correct or not? It is so when laws are written, when only an illusion is made that something is done, when such laws are brought back to the Assembly and then there are such objections and, therefore, the law must be precise and clear, and not unspeakable, not insufficient. We point to that fact and then you twist the thing, and you write it in an explanation that we're predicting something that we didn't even write, and we didn't even think about it. Think logically, what is the subject of this amendment. We say clearly - this is not enough, this is incomplete and I see no reason why you did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46575	A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. This was the last amendment in search of details on the amendment and addition of the Chemical Act. Do any of the participants in the debate who have time at their disposal want to take a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Crossing to the 5th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE BioCID PRODUCTS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milorad Krstin, together Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković and Nikola Lazić, Srboljub Živanovic, Dobrislav Prelic, Radica Jocic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Radiša Ilic, Vlad Milojković and Vitomir Plužarević. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You've received a report from the Environmental Protection Committee. National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic, written on 20 October 2010, withdrew the amendment, with correction, to Article 17. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46576	Madam Chairman, the minister is still missing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS thinks it should be changed in Article 7(1), and this is how we formulated him: "A manufacturer or importer can only place a biocidal product on the market if it has been granted a marketing authorisation. "Now you answer us not to accept the amendment, among other things, because Article 7 of the basic law gives us the possibility that a biocidal product for which a solution has been issued concerning the entry of a biocidal product into the provisional list for the delivery of a technical file will remain on the market until it is granted approval on the basis of verification and assessment of the technical file. You are now further explaining to us that this would mean that many biocidal products should be withdrawn from the market, until this procedure is carried out, that it takes a long time, etc. I want to tell you a few very important things you need to know. What we're actually alluding to with this amendment is that temporary list. The interim list is a very unpleasant service you are offering, and it is not for the benefit of Serbian citizens. What am I explaining? I explain that biocidal products are actually chemical or biological products used for chemical or biological destruction of undesirable organisms. When these products appear in too many quantities and places where they are unwanted, where they threaten human health, affect their activities, affect the products that people use or affect animals or the environment, biocidal products damage human health, but improve product performance and ensure efficient, safe and long-term product. That's exactly what we've been building on, on these characteristics and properties of biocidal products, this attitude that this temporary list should simply be abolished. It should be possible to give the right permission or simply not to place the product on the market until the procedure is completed. It is because it is dangerous, which can be dangerous and precisely because you will be delivering it in English and because perhaps the official was not there that day, so someone else needs to come to the conclusion that this product is being placed on the market. What I still want to answer to is the fact and the information that is presented here as incorrect and what is allowed here, which only allows some MPs to comment on and what is not on the agenda, and their observations we all listen to here today, so I will take advantage of the time of the authorised promoter, because I think that the example that we have here, that Bulgaria and Romania are at one point, rushing to enter the EU, actually adopting laws in English, a very good example of exactly what the DSS MPs here are drawing attention to. Neither Bulgaria nor Romania have been happy with the adoption of such laws, as they continue to start lists of those who are poor in the EU, nor have they been happy that they are an equal partner in the EU, but are a third-rate partner, or if they are at all a partner in this regard to the EU. I think it is very important that we MPs take care of our country, of the applicability of the law in our country. So we need to talk about some laws in the language used in our countries, in Serbia Serbian, hopefully, or the language of national minorities, but these laws are applicable on this ground, with our structure, with our country's capacities and it's very normal to talk about them this way. So much for that. Now I would like to talk about this majority definition of the population and citizens of Serbia for the EU. I hope the MPs are reading the daily newspaper. A recent Gallup survey came out, which says only 44% of Serbian citizens currently support Serbia's entry into the EU. Of course, there are also those who are Euro-sceptics, there are those who now say there is another study of Strategic Marketing, done on another sample, some other methods, etc. I simply ask that when we want to defend an amendment relating to biocidal products, we only do it by talking about it. When we talk about chemicals, we do it this way. It just seems to me that we're making ourselves very uncomfortable, not to say, donkey favor, as it is said in this language, and this country, and this honorable home, and the minister and his associates who did the law here in front of us, that we're talking about it in the way that we deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46577	Three minutes and 15 seconds of time have been used by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. This amendment was accepted by both the Government and the Environment Protection Committee. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46578	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5(2) where the word "can" is replaced by the word "must." I'll read you a request from Article 1... He can handle more importers together." I deleted that word here and wrote the word "must." In fact, very few words are dedicated to biocidal products, and I have to tell you, in contact with many people who deal with whether chemistry, veterinary or doctors, I've talked about this biocidal product and very few people are familiar, because it's actually an active substance, virus or fungi that has a general or specific fact on undesirable organisms. What's very important is that importers or those who produce these biocidal products, so to speak, are the countries of origin of these products. It is also a small number, because, in fact, in order to establish itself, it wants to be prevented, as the colleague said, whether by means of biological or chemical destruction to deter the effect of harmless, action or control of undesirable organisms. So I think that the word "can" should be replaced by the word "must," because this is still a substance that is still unknown today, but which is still in the phase of one big, long-term examination of the work of an expert team in laboratories, and normally, in countries dealing with this production.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46579	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46580	Once again, I have a amendment where I have to talk about using Serbian or English, so I don't want to talk about it. I'm just going to read what we wrote and what our amendment remark is: "The data on the efficiency of Article 1 are being delivered to the Agency in Serbian or the language of some of the national minorities in accordance with the law". What I want to talk about is what you wrote me as an explanation for why you do not accept this amendment. "The amendment is not accepted because efficiency data are the result of numerous and complex research and tests done mainly in laboratories abroad. Thus, these data are originally produced in English, so translation would cause unnecessary costs to domestic economic operators." They usually get you to pay other taxes, if they want you to speed up the procedure. It's still said "... Especially given that data on efficiency will be studied by experts at the Agency for Chemicals who know English." Be careful, please, "In view of the fact that this amendment and supplementation wanted to achieve significant financial savings for economic operators and to speed up the process, acceptance of the proposed amendment would have the opposite effect." The foreign ones aren't in that category. So you answer to me for something I haven't asked you at all. All I'm asking is that you respect the Constitution. Nothing further. Now you explain to me why you decided not to respect the Constitution, because you want to bring your puppet state to the point where no one lives and respects you unless you respect yourself. And you obviously have this problem – that you don't respect yourself and you want someone else to respect you. Gentlemen, in the EU, in all other environments, everywhere in the world, individually or stately, you are respected only as much as you respect yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46581	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are again in a position to amend and supplement the law. When this law was here for adoption, we warned that it was not good and that there would be changes and additions. This is obvious that we were right. We were especially right because this is how you combine the agenda points. That's how you mess it all up, hilly-doo. I even thought that today, when these first two laws were about chemicals and biocidal products, we should have someone here from the Ministry of Agriculture, because it's closely related to the Ministry of Agriculture. The fact that you, and when it is adopted, the law does not apply properly in practice, and it speaks enough of what we have now received as changes and additions. These are mostly termological synchronizations, some small things, etc. It's a good thing you didn't rewrite the whole law. We wanted to help you. In particular, this amendment – not only to be applied English, but to replace it with the words "in English, Russian, French, German and Spanish". In particular, we think they should be in Russian because we think it is necessary to attach as much as possible to the Russian market and to the Russian Federation. We also had this example in 2007, when our agriculture in the last 25 years had not had such a good relationship with its partner and so many of its products were exported to Russia. When our friends from the EU came, it was quite different, but there is no time to talk about it now. Let me give you a concrete example of how you, first of all, don't respect the law, and so I think it will be here when these biocidal products are concerned and that the monopoly will do its part again, as it does on our market every day. We had an example here, or adoption of the Law on genetically modified organisms. Our government has allowed genetically modified soybeans, corn and potatoes to be examined at our institutes in Zemun Polje and the New Sad Institute. That's how, dear gentlemen, the law doesn't apply. You must first show that the law is applied, not that you apply it selectively. I suggest that simply because of a better solution, a more precise solution and solutions that will allow far greater communication, accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46583	40 seconds of MP time was used. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic (with correction) and MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, i.e. the amendment with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of this bill also refers to language. This Article 9 refers to Article 13 of the basic law, where it is said – with the request for authorisation, a technical file is submitted in Serbian and can also be delivered in English. Furthermore, the SRS proposes ''in English, Russian, French, German and Spanish. ''It is absolutely unclear why the proposer listed only the EU as one of the reasons for using English to deliver this technical file. As is known, Serbia is not an EU member, not even an EU member candidate. In addition, the EU is in the harshest way disrupting the sovereignty of the state of the Republic of Serbia, by openly participating in the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija. We aim, above all, at protecting the Serbian language, as prescribed by the Constitution and the Law. No one slows English, like a language that's enough to be used in the world and spoken by a large number of people. But that's why there are other languages in which, for example, technical files may be delivered in Russian and in Spanish, German, French. You are here as a reason for the refusal of amendments stated that the file will be studied by experts at the Agency who know English well. What would you write if these experts knew, by chance, only Chinese or Greek, not to list any other languages? Insisting on the EU, and we're not there, really doesn't make any sense. Today it's about technical files, tomorrow it might be the case with instructions for the use of drugs, the day after tomorrow for the use of elevators, etc. So, Serbia kind of loses its sovereignty through language.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46585	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 20 seconds have been used. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46586	Practically, this is an amendment to Article 9, i.e. the existing Article 13, where you suggest that, with the request for authorisation for a biocidal product, a technical file is submitted in Serbian and that this can be done in English, etc. We talked about it a lot today. I really don't mind English because I am a professor of English. So, I really don't mind, but I do mind that the Serbian Ministry suggests that, with certain requirements, this is a request for the approval of a biocidal product, or poison, it can deliver a file, a technical file, in another language, whether it's English. First of all, you here claim in your argument that you are thus reducing costs. First, let me tell you, every serious company or company or has an English translator, maybe another one or uses translation agency services, that's one thing. Another thing, bear service because you will not actually introduce any savings here, because it will appear, as very often occurs – it was a translation problem, and it is not well translated, so for example, you refused someone's request. How is that someone who filed that file in English who didn't find it appropriate to translate it so that he understood it enough, how will he control approval or disapproval for some biocidal product? So he'll be in the dark, he'll only have it in English. I don't think anyone who submits that request will know English as well as you say that the people who work with you at the Ministry know English so well that they have no problem. I guess the people who work in that agency are people who know English because they taught him at school or went to classes, etc. I don't really know if you're doing any good English language tests before you hire these people. So you can't convince me that people who work in that agency know English so well that there won't be any problems here in practice that you refuse something because of a bad translation. So what you're saying is that you're going to save people who apply for some kind of money is actually a lie, that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46587	Two minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 20 of this new proposed law on biocidal products, and it concerns Article 53 of the Old Biocidal Products Act. We believe this article 20 should be deleted. In the government's explanation, we received the answer: ''Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the technical file is the result of numerous and complex research and tests done in laboratories abroad. Therefore, these documents are originally made in English, and their translation would result in unnecessary costs for domestic economic operators, especially considering that the technical file will be studied by experts at the Agency for Chemicals who know English. Given the fact that this amendment and supplementation seeks to achieve significant financial savings for economic operators and to speed up the process, the adoption of the proposed amendment would have the opposite effect. ''That was answered by the Government to this amendment we have proposed, and concerning the provisions on supervision of the application of the law and to comply with the material provisions of this law. I'd like to say a few sentences about this biocidal product law. It is a new environment in legislation. So these biocidal products, these are products that are not yet defined and that are defined in a variety of ways. I think it is likely that someone in charge of these biocidal products will perform both the systematicisation and all that is necessary for these biocidal products to be found on the access policy, i.e. that the public can accept them and educate them, to get to know all the products that can be harmful at some point, and in some other comment they can be useful. I think our amendment to Article 20 should be accepted and these amendments to the Biocidal Products Act should be better regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46589	55 seconds of MP time was used. Since this was the last amendment to the amendment to the amendment and supplementation of the law, I ask if any of the other participants, who have the time, would like to take part in the debate? National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46590	I am reporting on behalf of the authorised representative of the DSS because I think it may be time to say some more very important things, and to begin these things, I will call for an interview that the minister gave to the NIN and several findings that were made in that interview, which I would simply like to comment on, because they are the best indicator of what these amendments and amendments of the law are important to make. The minister says that in the first plan of all world media, the link between environmental protection, industry and continuing demands for sustainable economic development has re-emerged. It's just fine, and that's what I think all the countries of the world are trying to fight and trying to find the right measure between environmental protection, on the one hand, between growing and constant demands for a sustainable demand for the economy and, on the third hand, the development of industry. We in Serbia, thanks to this government, have no problem with this other element, with industry, we don't have that. So we don't have to solve this problem with environmental laws, but we have a problem with the continuing requirements for sustainable economic development. What does that mean? Everything. It is the best example of the Nature Protection Act, which is also in this package of laws and which is today in front of us and what we were talking about only in the first two laws, namely chemicals and biocidal products, and we should talk about some other things. So the next thing I knew was the fact made by the minister that the EU, meanwhile, is talking about this ecological disaster that took place in Hungary, that it has offered assistance to all the countries at risk, and the international environmental protection organisation Grinpis has warned that the consequences are far-reaching, marking it as the biggest ecological disaster in the last 20 to 30 years. So, 300 or 400 kilometers downriver, it no longer exists as a disaster, nor as an announcement of a disaster with us, thank God, so I'd like to get information from the minister about who's right here, whether that organization or what we got from it. Not only on this case, but many times before, we learned that the recovery of pollution is always more costing than prevention, but not necessarily money, and there you are ministers quite right, so among other things, what you said, I would really like to sign this, because I think this is the basic thing that the environment minister should say. I'm not ironic, I really think that's okay. What you have offered us in the form of changes and additions, especially the Nature Protection Act, are just denying everything you have done here wonderfully and brilliantly, because you are trying to destroy the environment in Serbia with these changes, in a very dramatic way. Since the DSS has spoken in principle several times about how this destruction of protected natural areas is very perfiduously solved... (President: National MPs, I must remind you, since you are half of the remaining time available to you, that you have an obligation to speak on the agenda, and now there is a search in detail in the draft amendments and additions of the Law... I speak as an authorised representative, therefore, since the debate was united and in principle I talked about all these laws. (President: National MPs, I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So when the National Assembly decides to merge the agenda points, that is, when deciding on a joint principled search, we are talking at the same time about all the laws. The search in particular implies moving from agenda point to agenda. We are currently in session when we have completed the amendment to the Bill on Biocidal Products and we are obliged to talk about this topic. ) Okay, I'm gonna stop and talk about the environmental impact assessment, because that's the next point, and I thought I should talk about it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46591	I thank you, three minutes have been spent using the time of authorized representatives, and there are three more minutes at your disposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Strategic Assessment of the Impact of Life Wednesdays (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Radica Jocic, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Radisa Ilic and Vitomir Plužarević. You have received a report from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46592	This Article 4 actually amends Article 7 of the existing law. The title above that article 7 reads – the hierarchical framework and the basics. This is where the promoter suggested that these two existing attitudes change. The second position, the promoter suggested that "If a plan or programme is an integral part of a particular hierarchical structure – so we have a sentence that starts with a 'if' – a strategic environmental impact assessment is done in accordance with the guidelines of the strategic impact assessment on the environment of the plan or programme of a higher hierarchical level. '"There's nothing controversial about it. We have only suggested to delete this first part of the sentence, where you say, if. We also suggest that the second position is – the strategic environmental impact assessment is done in line with the guidelines of the strategic impact assessment on the environment of the plan or the higher hierarchy programme. Why? Because the environment is one whole concept and you always have it as part of some broader hierarchical level or program. So it's never that isolated, so it can be done on its own without being part of a whole. That is why we believe that this first part of the sentence – if it is, is absolutely unnecessary here. I think you might have accepted this amendment. However, what is wrong is the explanation that you gave us why you reject this amendment. I explained to all MPs and citizens what the argument is, or what it consists of, just to delete the first part of the sentence. You could explain that you believe that the applicants of the amendment were wrong about that and that, but you couldn't say that the amendment was not accepted for reasons of legal failure. So, Minister Dulic knows very well, because he was both MP and speaker of the Assembly, our Legislative Committee is considering every amendment, so if it is not in accordance with the law, the amendment is rejected, so we cannot even discuss it because it is not legally possible. When this amendment has gone through the Legislative Committee, it means that it is legally possible, and now I've talked to you about what this is all about, so it's perfectly logical that you can't deliver this argument to us. You could have said that it's contrary to the idea, the concept of the law, etc., that would be your vision, but not that it's legally incorrect. I'd like you to explain. It's not the only amendment, it seems there have been too many amendments, so people in the ministry hated writing arguments valid, but you can't tell us that it's legally incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46593	One minute and 15 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46594	So, with this amendment, it's very similar to what counterpart Donka Banovic explained earlier. We have provided for Article 9(4) of point 3 changes and reads: "Other information prescribed by the minister, which is based on which it was decided not to approach the strategic assessment". The explanation we received: ''Amendman is not accepted for reasons of legal failure. '"How? Mr. Minister, can you explain how this is a legally incorrect amendment? You don't know? It's just astounding. So whenever we want to improve some law and give you some good ideas, then we get these or similar answers. On the other hand, speaking of which, Mr. Minister, you are given certain laws of power. We talked about it. When we mention these powers in a law that you're proposing, then we get the answer that the amendment is technically incorrect. What is the essence of your answer? The bottom line of this answer is that you don't really want to cooperate at all, to literally rewrite laws, not read MPs' amendments, and then MPs get an answer – the amendment is legally incorrect. Just now, a colleague of Donka Banovic asked you a question – did the Legislative Committee pass? Yes, it is. Did he have any objections from that board? It's not. How is this possible for the Legislative Committee to be legally correct and for the representatives of your ministry to be legally incorrect? It's really amazing, amazing. The only reason I'm stating is that you don't want co-operation, you won't accept good ideas, and that's the essence of this answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46595	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements. Article 6 of the amendment and the amendment refers in fact to Article 10 of the basic law, and that Article 10 refers to the choice of the holder of the report on the strategic assessment. We specifically intervened in Section 2. I will first read as said in Section 2, that is, with the changes proposed by the Government. It is said: 'The legal person or entrepreneur of Section 2 of this article may educate a multidisciplinary team composed of experts qualified to analyse each of the elements of the strategic assessment. '''' the SRS believes that this should not be left to the free will, or free choice that someone can, but also does not have to educate this team, so we have proposed an amendment – a legal person or entrepreneur from item 2 of this article to produce a report on the strategic impact assessment education of a multidisciplinary team composed of experts qualified to analyse each of the elements of the strategic assessment. Since it is an extremely sensitive area which is related to the preparation of the strategic assessment report and which must require expert analysis, it is necessary, by doing so, to involve professionals who would analyse each of the elements of the strategic assessment. The SRS amendment envisions this engagement as an obligation, while the government only gives the possibility of such a thing. This is an opportunity for the minister to ask again about that famous situation, about the Smederev refinery. It also discusses these strategic environmental impact assessments. I was denied the answer when the debate was in principle. Mr. Minister, you have received a letter from the Environmental Protection Committee regarding the Smederev refinery, to provide us with any information on the environmental security of the construction of a refinery for the processing of crude oil in Smederev. We've received an answer from your ministry that you have no knowledge whatsoever, you have not received any request to issue any acts from the point of view of environmental protection, etc. By listing the press in the last few months, just to say that this document has been carrying a date since 1 October 2010, we have seen that you are in the means of public information during August of the month, not to mention which newspapers are involved, there are several, making statements to conclude that you and how you are familiar with this project and all plans regarding the construction of this refinery in Smederev. Also, in the "Official Messenger" of 21 September 2010, we had the opportunity to see the Regulation on the establishment of a spatial plan of a specific purpose of the industrial zone sector north-east in Smederevo, where the maltenes to detail, in particular, states everything regarding the refinery, where soil pollution, groundwater pollution, environmental protection, air pollution, etc. will be built. I don't understand why you in some way deceived the Committee on Environmental Protection, not giving us timely and valid information on what was said during the summer months in Serbia. You know for a fact that there was an organized referendum. Also, we asked the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection to schedule a special session, where information would be exchanged about this whole story and the refinery in Smederev, because what causes doubt in a large number of citizens is the fact that this is about a refinery that would be built for $250 million. You've made statements in the media that it's an absolutely safe and secure refinery that's going to be built, and we know that the refineries of that 100,000 barrels in the world can be built for a billion-dollar figure, so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46597	Two minutes and 50 seconds of authorized representative have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 7 where, in this Article 7, we propose to replace the word "body" with the word "minister." I'm going to explain very briefly why we suggested this and probably the minister and his associates will accept this amendment. The Law on the ratification of the protocol on strategic environmental impact assessment, among other things, defined that the strategic impact assessment is not only about urban plans, but about plans, programmes and strategies in general, so one reason for amending this law is that a strategic impact assessment is necessary to be an integral part of all the strategies that are being adopted. So I emphasized this -- all the strategies that are being adopted. Because of all these strategies being adopted, this word "body" has to be replaced by the word "minister". For financial reasons, the word "body" can also be a local community body, it can also be an authority of local self-government, and the local community or local self-government authority has no ability, there is no financial means to publish it in public, or to use a certain amount of funds to make it available to the public. It's very important to know. It says, "A report on strategic impact assessment must be made available to the public as an integral part of a particular plan." That's my word, which in Article 7, the word "body" is replaced by "ministerism." When we analyzed this law on the Committee, at the time the minister was not, we received information that he was in Greece and we resented him because it was a set of laws that mattered to this parliament and is important to Serbia. Will strategic evaluations be carried out and who will carry out strategic assessments concerning the Zemun Bridge – Ovca and, then, who will assess the tunnel through Fruska Gora and whether someone has carried out a damage assessment and a strategic environmental impact assessment, and you know that all the American giants have come to you here in downtown Belgrade, I mean the General Staff, the police facilities? So, I ask the Minister for an answer – is the strategic assessment and impact of the environment related to these facilities being carried out and how will the strategic assessment be carried out in the Ledinci on the Mount of France? That's what we've been talking about and we've been looking for certain answers, and these Ledins in Fruszko Gora are now open to manipulation, which is open to a variety of speculation and possibilities, for one simple reason, because we know that our army has been redacted and reduced, and that there are many of these objects that can serve even for incredible purposes. I think that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is important and influential and that they can stop all of these negative tendencies and phenomena that can arise, and that they can do about this strategic environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46599	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46600	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 8 and we, respectively, in Article 19(1), ask that part of Article 1 be deleted after the words "the programme" and the words "must be provided for public debate in considering the report on strategic assessment". What made it extremely important for this public debate to finally appear, since we are signatories of many conventions, including the Arkus, that we are signatories and the Habitats Directive, which requires that an opinion be provided to the general public and that, I mean, the Ministry simply overlooks in some way? It happened that, when it was the Nature Protection Act, this report to the public and the public opinion security said that on the Ministry's site, somewhere in August of the month, a proposal for changes and additions appeared very shyly. What is even more interesting is that the proposal to amend and supplement that was then on the site and the one that is today in front of MPs is completely different. So in some ways, the ministry is very important to avoid public opinion. This shows in several ways, including this Nature Protection Act, that Article 35, shows that the ministry wanted to avoid the opinion of the general public, especially the professional public, since it was obvious that the professional public had sought help from the MPs, which means people from the Biology Department in Belgrade University of Belgrade, the University of Novosad and the Department of Ecology of the Novosad University. Therefore, the professional public felt that it had been omitted from making decisions. The public is also interested, and skipped in decision-making, as 35 NGOs have signed and asked the government to consider this, i.e. the promoter, the government, the ministry in this case, to consider what it has put before MPs, because this also destroys resources that do not belong to the ministry itself, but belong to Serbia's future. On the other hand, which is why we still considered it very important to talk about public debates, because I really think that this is a good way, after all, and the Environment Protection Committee will consider the report on the state of the environment in a public debate and I think it is a contribution to the development of environmental protection and responsible attitude of all those interested in the environment in Serbia. On the other hand, if you look at all the possible media that publish ads to local self-government, local self-government has also found a phenomenal way to avoid, let's say, in this case an impact assessment on the environment, because wherever you see ads about a project that local self-government announces and is always behind it is the next sentence – there is no need for a strategic impact assessment. I think it's a bad service to Serbia's environment, I think it's a bad service to our children, because, after all, what we're about to destroy today, we won't be able to make up for many years in advance and not just money that we don't have, of course, too much, because the minister says investment in the environment and the Environment Fund is about 0.25% of GDP annually. It's very little right now, only 0.25%, and I don't think we need to talk about how responsible we are then to do what we do in the field of environmental protection and how well we do it, not destroy it. So these are some very important things that we advocate that the Serbian public must have an opinion on many of the things the Ministry is doing and is proposing, and that is why we have finally submitted an amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46601	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Living Centre (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Radiša Ilic, Vitomir Plužarević, Radoslav Milovanovic, Radica Jocic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Nikola Savivić and Vladan Jeremic. You have received a report from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46602	We're going back to the old story about the legal malfunction of the amendment. What is the essence of this amendment? We have suggested that these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment return to the words "and the environment", which has been cast out in amendments and additions. It is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable to write that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of legal failure. Does this mean that this law that you're changing now has been legally incorrect? Then why did you accept it a year and a half ago? On the other hand, what does it matter? Does anyone at the Ministry think about how noise can affect the environment? Does it even have an impact on the environment? Yes, I'll give you one last example. If you open up a quarry nearby, and there's mining, demolition, transportation, what's going to happen to that environment of all this noise? Everything that lives here and is going to get out of that environment and you throw out that it doesn't matter to the environment at all, the noise. How did you not think at all about the importance of noise and environmental impact? Why do you even give such answers that the amendment is technically incorrect? I'm just reminding you that you've unnecessarily thrown out the environment in changes and additions to the Noise Act. This is to make a man wonder what kind of people he's dealing with. Can anyone, the minister is not here to explain, this is the third amendment that has been rejected due to a legal malfunction. The question is, how is it technically incorrect? What is this legal malfunction? This doesn't make sense. On the Committee on the Environment, when these amendments are discussed, the minister does not show up, there is a shortcut to work. When a minister doesn't show up, then we get these answers and then we talk seriously about the law? This has gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46603	The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46604	Practically, this amendment is identical to the previous amendment, which my colleague Milan Dimitrijevic spoke about, that is, Article 3. talks about the meaning of various terms, which are used in the current law, so you found it appropriate to rephrase in this sense the definition of what these harmful effects are, that is, in the current law – the adverse effects are the negative impact of noise on human health and the environment. You are now suggesting that there are no adverse effects on the environment, because you practically want to delete the words – the environment by this change. We think that the adverse effects are both in human health and in the environment, and that you really don't need to change this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46605	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law, where we define the following meaning of this law: 'The acoustic zone is an area on whose entire area is prescribed the unique limit value of the noise indicator', and we are adding new words 'no adverse impact on human health and the environment'. We have received the answer that noise is defined as a harmful sound, and it is precisely because of that harmful sound that we are adding now to reduce that harmful effect of that noise, not to be as loud as the last thought of that sentence, but to make without the adverse impact on human health and the environment a message from the legislator regarding this law. Among other things, regarding this noise law, strategic noise maps need to be drawn first, in order to be able to assess how much it costs to make action plans. As for the amendments and the terminology that this was necessary because of the individual expressions repeated throughout the text of the law, which are not applicable, here, precisely because of these expressions that are not applicable, we wanted to improve this Article 2, let me say, the basic principle of the text of this law relating to this noise law. We expect the minister to accept this Article 2 and add these words – without damaging the health of people and the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46607	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic, at the last.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46608	I'm sorry, I haven't been able to sign up for much paper. This amendment is subject to Article 3 and otherwise to the existing Article 7, which speaks of certain competences, obligations which have autonomous provinces. The promoter now through these changes suggests that autonomous provinces are not obliged to make strategic noise maps, and this has been their obligation so far and that they are not obliged to bring action plans against noise in the environment in their territory. We don't see why you've freed the autonomous provinces from these obligations. That should remain the obligation of autonomous provinces.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46609	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46610	This is the highlight of hypocrisy. Again the same argument - the amendment is not accepted for reasons of legal failure. What is the essence of this amendment? It is completely incomprehensible to us, as the legislator of the law managed, when the amendment and the addition of the law reduced the competence of the units of local self-government, and we return these powers to our amendment. What's the problem? What's the problem? On the one hand, there is talk of decentralisation of Serbia, which should restore jurisdiction to local self-government. What is it that today is one of the most important issues of local self-government? Environment, environmental pollution. Serbia is overwhelmed by landfills and when local self-government needs to solve these problems, then by certain laws you take those responsibilities. It seems to me that there's an answer to such behavior by the authorities, a story of transfer funds. We're coming up with an answer as to why these amendments are being rejected. To ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent minister, who hasn't been in the O.R. for a long time, what happens to the transfer funds of local self-government? How much is reduced, how much is it going to be at the end of this year, how much will be in the coming years, whether it's bigger or smaller, and the projections are that it's going to be smaller. When you know that information, then you take away jurisdiction from local self-government. That's why you urgently went to changes and additions to this noise protection law. On the one hand, you don't need a law on protection against the noise of the environment, and you don't need it because you're probably going to let some of your improvements deal with some kind of production in some environment, which is obviously going to have an impact on the environment, so let's make a quick change of that law, so it can't be sanctioned legally anymore, and that's that story. These are your European laws. We came to the beginning of the story. When you have no answer to the right questions that are being asked, when you are referred to the mistakes you are making, then MPs receive an answer to the amendments that are legally incorrect. I ask you again, answer why this amendment is technically incorrect? Am I going to get any answers from a ministry representative or Mr. Minister who hasn't been in the O.R. for a long time, which makes these amendments technically incorrect? What's the real reason? Government incompetence, you prescribe laws, you don't know how to translate them? When you're in trouble, then you're going faster to change the law and supplement the law after a year and a half, and what kind of changes are you making? Yes, and by a little bit of jurisdictional self-government you take away, you ask yourself everything, and then, according to the party key, they'll get certain solutions from certain people. That is the essence of your European laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46611	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46612	This amendment refers practically to Article 21. The proposer changes this article by considering – two or more units of local self-government do not need to adopt joint local plans, if necessary for effective and coordinated implementation of noise protection measures in the common area. It is not clear to us, who have proposed this amendment, why the proposer suggested that this should be deleted from the existing law, especially when it comes to ecosystems. Local self-government not only needs to, but are forced to cooperate. You have one unsuccessful action where local self-governments negotiate to form regional dumps, and when protecting the environment, and even from noise, absolutely no local self-government can do it on its own because no one is isolated and it is not clear to us at all why you suggested to delete it. You could've, I could've guessed what the reason was to let this law live for a year, or how long, and that no action joint plan ever appeared and that you thought, because in practice it wasn't accepted and revived, and that's why you deleted this provision. However, you could also write that in an explanation of why you reject this amendment. Otherwise, for this amendment, the reasoning that has come to us again that the legal amendment is incorrect, otherwise all the amendments that we have submitted to the Law on Noise Protection are so reasoned, that they are technically incorrect. Madam President, please check with the President of the Legislative Committee, who has let these amendments pass as legal correct, to see where the problem is, whether it is in the Legislative Committee, so they have not recognised the legal malfunction or the problem in the Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46613	The 12th amendment was submitted by Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Protection of Nature (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the bill: Dejan Radenković, Ljiljana Zdravković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Nikola Lazić, Vitomir Plužarević, Milorad Krstin, Filip Stojanović, Srboljub Živanovic, Radiša Ilic and amendments to the Committee on Environmental Protection. I remind you that MP Dejan Radenkovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment, with a correction, to Article 28. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravković. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46614	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. In Article 5(2), the word "Minister" is replaced by "Ministership". The SRS believes these jobs should be in the power of the ministry as a state body, not a minister as an individual, as the minister is a variable category. They come and go through the ministries, some are more and some are less professional in the field of work of the ministry, while the ministry has been working on people who have been on the same jobs for decades and can regularly monitor certain events and reactions to the application that are being established, and it is necessary to adapt them to certain conditions, while ministers are there to provide and approve and monitor the legality, approve the start and end of a certain action and as such sign documents. We feel that this amendment improves the text of the bill. Since nature protection is a permanent job, so are certain laws and projects that are being launched and implemented in the area are being carried out over a long period of time, so that the entire ministry is involved in these projects. Article 5 of the Amendment and addition of the Nature Protection Act applies to Article 12 of the basic law and deals with compensatory measures carried out with a legal or natural person, i.e. an entrepreneur, if they cause adverse consequences to nature that can result from the realisation of projects, works or activities on protected natural goods. It is precisely because of these compensatory measures mentioned in this article that the SRS considers that these transactions must be in the power of the ministry as a state body, not a minister as an individual. That's why I invite you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46615	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The proposal for a law to add a new position of 5, which reads – legal person, entrepreneur and natural person who, through the realisation of the project, works or activities referred to in Article 10 of this Act, causes adverse consequences in the ecologically significant area or protected natural goods in which strict protection regimes are carried out in accordance with Article 35 of this Act, is required to pay to the Environmental Protection Fund the value of the damage caused by the locality as a cash compensation because the resolution measures cannot be implemented or to implement the compensation measures". We believe that this member and this position were liberal in this law and that it could have happened that anyone agreed or who established contact with certain institutions, related to these protected spaces and protected nature and could have been built by agreement, and today it is built in various places without compensation, or without any damage, without compensation to that protected nature. We believe that this compensation must be quick, efficient, mandatory, means that there would be no degradation and degradation of certain protected space, and you also know today in the system of construction and construction facilities and all of these spatial plans and large building ventures that they mainly want to establish one of their own, to say construction, or some of their biorithms in that space. So this amendment of ours is meaningful, and I think it points to the right thought of today's problems that are happening in Serbia that can be stopped by our proposals and additions. As regards this member, we have made little comment here and some association "Natura 2000" and we have made some negative comments on this association "Natura 2000" because all the proposals that are related to nature protection come from this "Natura 2000" which is with us, whether defined or undefined. Most of the time, the people do not know what "Natura 2000" means and what its powers are and how it affects this protected part of nature in Serbia or the future part of protected nature in Serbia. We believe that "Natura 2000" is not welcome in this current economic state, that is, in this economic state of Serbia, because it is profitable and in fact a large amount of money swallower, and especially protected parts of nature and space are without money and are mostly financed by them, on a spoon, because the state does not have enough money, which is logical. I don't think he can have money, when there's no money in health care, enlightens in culture. Then how about the money and the protected parts of nature? Because of all these comments, we suggest that the Ministry accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46617	Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Vitomir Plužarevic and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46618	In the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Nature of Amendments, this Article 13 refers to Article 35 of this new law. We suggested that this new member be deleted on the 35th. Why? Because it's a much better defined member of 35th in the existing Nature Protection Act. So, what's this about? Whoever carefully reads the law is sufficient to read the last two positions of this new member of the 35th, which reads: ''The government is closer to prescribing the regimes of protection, the procedure and the way in which they are determined and objects, works and activities that are prohibited or restricted. ''Last position: ''In the national park, works and activities that are restricted under this article may be prohibited, in accordance with special law. '"The government is the one, that is, the minister who will prescribe it and bring it closer to decrees, offices, etc. Now what's the big deal? The dispute is that environmentalists, the real nature-protective people, informed the Serbian public, informed the political parties that one state-run good, such as Fruska Gora, would be deposited in those tunnels nuclear waste coming from Europe, but not only Fruska Gora would be threatened, but Đerdap is also mentioned. I'm going to connect it to two things, so you'll see how it gets into Serbia at a small door. I'm going to mention to you the disputed Water Act for which this ministry, which is sitting here now, was not competent. You will admit that the Water Act is very important to the Ministry of Environment. In the article, it seems to me, 147, thermal power plants, hydropower plants and nuclear facilities are mentioned, although in Serbia the moratorium is for the construction of nuclear facilities by 2015. By changing this member, you are giving the government and the minister the exclusive right to prescribe and edit this area, and that is not enough for you, so you say – in the national park you can, in accordance with the special law, a half solution can again be made. What if I can't? Then what's going on? The minister has arrived. It's the fate of this law. The second link I'm going to make to you here is that, some time ago, the current minister, the Minister of Spatial Planning, quickly proposed to the Assembly the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the RS under the conditions of the economic crisis. Why does it matter? When this happened, the construction of apartments that will be cheap, 1,300 euros, in one location where former military barracks and the Serbian Army were once held, and when a tender is called, an unusual firm appears. The company's called "Monter." The owner is Mr. Kopchalic. That's interesting how he won the tender. Why is that interesting? Is it possible that Mrs. Vice President, who is not here, is involved with this firm? That's a question we should get some answers on. What is the essence of this law? It's written for individuals, it's written for a yellow business club. It is also with this Law on the Protection of Nature, its changes, which will slowly introduce Serbia to be a dump of diverse waste with exclusive government law, namely the minister to give or disagree on certain activities in those parts of Serbia that are protected by the natural goods of all Serbian citizens. It is likely that some of the edges of national parks, according to their exclusiveity in Serbia, Mr. Minister, a member of the government, will give this yellow business club again for exclusive use, not to mention Kopalnik, not to mention other things, about the famous Miodrag Kostic, who bought sugars at three euros in time, is now burning and burning up on Kopalnik, and the average citizen has no chance of coming up to that mountain. These are your European laws and there is your responsibility. So, slowly, all this is revealed and everything becomes clear in Serbia. And this irresponsibility, and this inconclusiveness, division of business by category and one hopelessness in Serbia, etc. But take it easy. The day of truth is coming. It is nearing the moment that Serbia's public will learn everything that has been done in the last two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46619	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46620	Thank you. I would not answer because I think that we have proved to the MPs, above all, to the MPs of the opposition, how we have worked and co-operated so far, about the parliamentary debates, and to work on committees and to accept a huge number of amendments, but yet I was encouraged by this claim which is extremely incorrect and which is a completely unargumented accusation, and about the construction of the "July 4th" barracks and the question of how the contractors of the works are generally chosen by the bidders defined by the law. First of all, I have to say that the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry under the conditions of the global economic crisis has produced excellent results because it has allowed major construction projects to be launched and that tenders are done exclusively and only in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, by recognising the necessity of an emergency procedure as such. The "July 4th" barracks will be an example of how a project is run from the point of view of fair tendering for business and from the point of view of informing the public about every step in which such important jobs as construction work are negotiated. Kasarna "July 4th" is such a big project that we expect all construction operations from Serbia to participate and work on it. Tell me, has there ever been a construction venture that implies that the first government decision defines the maximum, or minimum price at which a square, gross square area can be contracted according to the main project? Then you set up a set of public procurements in which you do not assign one company job, but you organize seven to eight different public procurements in which you give out first-placed three of the ten companies, and then these other seven that have failed, invite them to the next round, and invite the new three, so that all companies that want to participate at the prices that are predetermined can go to the site and work in accordance with the legislative procurements. It's the most honest model you've ever seen and that you'll probably ever see. Now that you're going to ask why he got this job or that job, I'll tell you – only because they've made the best offer. Only that's why. The offer has shown that it can be built in Belgrade at extremely favourable prices when we talk about the state as an investor, on the one hand, and I am sure that these tenders will set brand new standards in the tendering for building housing squares in Belgrade for the future. So, we have demonstrated on the barracks "July 4th" everything that should have been demonstrated much earlier, which is: the determination of the state to be an investor at a time when the prices of squares for our citizens should be brought down; the state's determination to restore quality building standards that implies using domestic materials, hiring domestic operatives; the state's determination to finally encourage the market of apartments that are legal, which are built in accordance with the highest European standards, which have been sold to only one buyer, and not more customers. In this way, and first of all, the state as an investor solves the problem that the market will lead to all those investors who have been cutting up investment jobs so that they sell more than once illegal apartments and cheat people, that they will slowly but surely disappear. On the other hand, we have contributed to defining something that will from now on be the middle price at which the apartments will be negotiated, which is between 350 and 450 euros per net square of built area – the key in hands. Tell me, do you know or have any information that has ever been made in Serbia, not ever, for the last 20 years at that price? We were able to achieve that price. So this company that you mentioned and all the other companies will work within that framework. We're talking about 30 or 40 of the largest construction companies in the project. This firm you mentioned is just one of them. Anyone who has the capacity, who has the workers, who has the quality, who has the ability to perform these works, will surely work on the barracks "July 4th". And don't even try to scandalize a project that is so clear, so transparent in front of the public, that everything is known – project, permit, price, deadline until it is due to end, quality of construction, the price at which it is sold, who is the investor and who took responsibility for it. We may suspect other things, but you can't suspect the Fourth of July barracks. We finished the tender yesterday and three of the most favourable companies, since at the same prices as those last three, they got a job. Let's move on. By March, next April, we expect all companies to be introduced to the site. I'll remind you, there's never been one such big project launched in Serbia at once, such as building nearly 400,000 squares of living space on the barracks "July 4th". It's a project that will be launched now. It is likely that a good part of the project will continue during the new government's term of office. It is the project that is only the first of the new housing policy projects that we want to establish and offer to our citizens, all with the aim of allowing the average Serbian family to reach squares and their roof over their heads, under much more favourable conditions than they are on the market today. What we've also demonstrated, and what's part of this debate since this morning, in six months, we've come from an initial idea to build a complex like this, to get this complex to start doing everything with building permits, in accordance with the Construction Planning Act. That's how we proved that the law is right, that it's possible to work on it. If you have no intention of harassing the investor, of keeping the proceedings, of slowing things down, of letting such a project go uncontrollable, so anything is possible, it just needs to be done. Anything else you said I wouldn't really comment on. Of course, the opposition also serves to criticise the government, but please one thing, let me hear one of you, here you are, Mr Dimitrievich - what would you do in any particular case when we talk about environmental policy? I listen to you discussing the same thing under each amendment – this is not good. I'd like to hear - how would you organize a policy of the environment, if that's okay? Let me hear at least one constructive proposal. In the debate in principle, we had the opportunity to hear your arguments and claims that these amendments and additions of the law lower the criteria for environmental protection and the protection of natural resources. We accepted your amendment, so we said, well, that wasn't our intention. If maybe the vague intention we're about to do right now, let's make a complication of what we've suggested as an explanation of the amendments and your amendment and come up with something that's a golden environment. That amendment has been accepted. So what you're looking for is accepted. You are now continuing to use the same argument. So, you just took the papers with you two weeks ago and you read the same paper, like nothing happened. You have to tell the public. So, we have accepted everything that was your amendment, we have made it in accordance with the amendment that we have proposed, to come up with solutions that will mean that in the field, nature is protected in life, and we are not allowed to stop life. That was the main intention of the member now under discussion. You don't admit it. Let's just say for once, it's a great thing we've managed to correct the government. I'll even say it - yes, you were right, we did it, not to answer and to discuss again the things that have already been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46621	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46622	Madam President, since we are having a discussion in particular, one member of the New Rules of Procedure, who voted in the assembly majority, speaks of the time available for MPs and members of the government. I think it's two minutes, and it's not about 10 minutes, as the minister says. It's your duty, it's not your first time, this is the second time you've given these powers to ministers to speak 10 minutes by amendment. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Dulic, I just asked a question about one artist I know, and not just a name, to participate in the construction of that settlement. Since I know a lot of things about this company and the way it works, which is causing my suspicion, and even before, working in the City Assembly, I've had the opportunity to make sure of the quality of construction and construction, the professionality of this company. Your entire story was also heard when Bellville was built by the city government that are your party members, the way of land, the pace of construction, to which it is intended, what happens after the end of the Universe, and what happens to Belville, is it cheap construction? It's not as nice as you say it, Mr. Dulic. Third thing, you're calling opposition MPs to keep criticizing, and you weren't in the O.R. for an hour and a half. I've listed a series of amendments, which we've been given an explanation that they're very technicalally incorrect and I asked why they're technically wrong. What's technically wrong with that? About restoring jurisdiction and local self-government, about transfer funds. We can't talk like that. The fourth thing, Mr. Dulic, when we discussed the details of the Committee on a set of these laws that came back and forth to the Assembly, you did not honor us to be on the Committee, to exchange views on the Committee and to resolve any dilemmas, but we must now exchange views on the Assembly speaker. What's your reason for not coming to the board? So, when we don't have a dialogue, I'll never, never be able to agree to a monologue, get some respect for me here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46623	Mr. Dimitrievich, I am obliged to explain to you why Minister Dulic spoke for eight minutes. In accordance with Article 158, where the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than three hours. We record the time in which the Minister is taking part, and the total time will not be longer in accordance with Article 158 paragraph 1-7. Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46624	I'm sorry, Mr. Dimitrievich, which I'm going to have to explain to you now how the Rules of Procedure works, but I think I'm right about that because I spent a little time in this home. So, you, when we comment on what you did, trying to submit the amendment, is not technically possible, precisely because you are trying amendments in the context of the discussions on amendments and additions to change the basic text of a law that is not even launched as a change and a supplement. You just did it. You keep giving amendments to members of the law that haven't even been changed by amendments and additions. Now I'm not going to tell you, because I'm afraid I may not piss you off because I'm telling you that I can't, and now I'm telling you, because that's not technically possible. It's not possible. When it comes to changes and supplements, it is possible to change and supplement only those members of the law that are open to changes and supplements, and you have always put members of laws that are not open in amendments and additions. If Vereca Radeti needs to explain it, then we are entering a huge problem, because she taught me that, while I was the speaker of parliament, while she was the MP of the opposition. That's the main reason it's not. So, all Belgrade firms, all Serbian companies that meet the conditions will get and report, all will have to work according to high-quality standards set and at prices that are extremely correct and in line with what is set up by this law, as I will remind you that by law we have said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines the minimum, or maximum cost of construction, when it comes to housing. What's the quality of building some companies when they're working as private investors, we're not going to get into it, here where an investor of the state is going to have to work quality. Since the state no longer has state-owned construction companies, we are in the public procurement process negotiating business with private construction companies, but, for God's sakes, they will have to work quality and will have to work according to what is in the main project. Any mention of any company, you mentioned one here, and I'm telling you that there will be dozens of them, at least 30-40 companies will work at the barracks '4. July. What's most important to future customers, they won't even be able to know who the building was, because they'll all be built from the same materials and by the same quality standard we set.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46625	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You learned quite well all the lessons from parliamentaryism while you were here. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. You advertised the Rules of Procedure, by amendment? No, no, no, so in the most commendable sense, you were his model of how properly he should behave as an MP. So it was a tendency to verbalize Mr. Minister. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46626	Not according to the amendment, but if Mr. Dulic gets angry about something else, then he finds it appropriate to honor us not to know we're writing amendments. If you look at the Noise Protection Act, I don't have it here right now, you'll see that our amendments refer to those members you've opened up with your changes. So, you have experience as an MP, I have, and besides, our Legislative Committee would notice it and say, people, you write amendments to those members that are not open. Don't be angry because the subject has made you respect now that we don't know when we can, when they're changed and complemented, only those members who are open to writing amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46627	The word is from MP Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with this Article 13. The bill on which we have submitted the amendment and we propose that this Article 13 be deleted. The whole set of these laws, i.e. the entire set of all these laws and actions that took place in connection with these laws for the protection of the environment, are the essence, essence, and essence of this particular Article 13, or Article 35 of the Old Law. Everything else is what our people would say, in passing or flying, but the essence and essence of the change of all these laws is this very Article 13. I'll start with one chronological order. On the Committee on Environmental Protection, we have gathered all members and there have been an even greater number of MPs who are not members of the Committee, but Mr Dulic was not on that committee. This committee has been discussing this very law on the protection of nature, which is the essence of all these changes that are happening here. The fact that Mr. Dulic mentioned to us today that this is the best project, this barracks "July 4th", is the worst project since 1900 until today, and this is said by the professional and qualified public who is real in her commentary. Mr. Minister has a right, and it is his right to rise to this, and we know the reasons why he does it, it is known, but this Article 13 has not been defined on that Committee on Environmental Protection, on which no minister participated, probably for his legitimate reasons. We got a full folder of memos from the professional public and they got upset, they're doctors of science, they're teachers from this area who asked and prayed that this member be deleted, or that this Article 13 should not be defined as proposed by the Government. Then there were some changes. Why was the public upset, professional public? Because no one from the Ministry communicated, except that they put it on the site, somewhere during the summer, and that site worked when people were kudikamo, someone was at sea, someone on the mountain, but that expert public read it and gave their opinion and they want that member deleted and the old member of the 35th to be valid, and about these amendments and additions to the law. Why do they want that article to be valid? Because it regulates those degrees, the first, the second and third degree of protection, where the Government cannot, according to its regulation, or the Minister at its discretion, or the Ministry of State, say, - we will now act in this protected part of nature because of the need for higher interests and we can now perform operations that we can do or build that we can do. This old law does not allow this dance or game of words, and even ideas that can be implemented in action. He's an angry minister, of course he's angry, and now he honors us that we haven't agreed on these amendments, etc. He did not agree this Article 13. What didn't he agree with? With the reality currently in Serbia. These are protected spaces, protected parts of nature, all national parks. How he thinks to protect Gerdap, Fruska Mountain, Kopalnik, Tara, etc. of any wishes and ideas? He couldn't protect that space, it's here in Belgrade, '4. July', and that's where he got involved, and that's where he executed everything according to the ad hoc system, that's where all the environmental impacts were organized, everything that was needed, the projects, the plans, it all ended quickly and now he respects us and tells us – that's what's best. That's the worst. You must, Minister, know where your place is related to the protection of the environment. Where the environment is threatened, there you must be, there you must act, there you must finance. You can't finance an urban environment of 80,000 hectares, it's the city of Belgrade, and you're here as a quality. What quality? With what means? What do you think, tomorrow, if the EU is going to let go, as we used to have those bozos coming to us from Slovakia at the time of their conquest of Vojvodina, so now that they're starting to release barges of that nuclear waste, it's noiseless, silent and it's coming to Gjerdap, it's coming to Fruska Mountain, it's coming up to Ledinac. That's what I've been commenting on in my previous comment. Do you know where the Ledins are? One day with the Committee on Environmental Protection, I ask you to look around and find out what's going on in the Ledinians. It will be too late for us to realize that something is happening there, and it can happen on the basis of a government or ministry decision, not respecting this law, or these changes that you have formulated here in article 13, or in Article 35 of the Old Law. We, like the SRS, fight and stand for justice in this ecological protective sense. We can't influence economic comment or influence, influence how many financial donations or anything, but we can inform the public, and this way we inform the public that what you're doing is not good. Whether the public will accept it, whether the public will understand it, want to take it to themselves, it's a special story. Minister, you can boast, it's okay, every minister and we should brag, we did – that, and that, but these are strategic members of the Nature Protection Act that can be subjected to the negation and negative role of any of the powers of the world's elite, because these powers of the world's elite, you know, they come and say – whether it's regulated by law, he says – is. We have, he says, a program, we have money, you only need in pre-accession programs to take that money down. Our people, or bureaucracy, act so easily and easily, only when they hear that someone gives, are they directed towards punishment. We want this Article 13 to be deleted and this Article 35 to be in the old description and list of the activities and parts of this Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46629	I'm sorry, I ruled you out by mistake, but we have time records. Keep going, just sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46630	Minister, I want you here today in front of this Serbian audience to answer this question, not to me, it doesn't mean anything to me, I won't be able to be influential, but to answer this law – do you guarantee and what you guarantee? Tomorrow you'll say - I didn't know, it's mine from the ministry, it's Natura 2000, it's EU directives, it's who knows who promoted you and commented. It means, to respond to this Article 13 and to accept the old proposal of Article 13, which has the first, second and third degree, and that these degrees originate from one another and that they have so-called. The safety sychron. Everything else can be, we'll see. So much for this Article 13 that I propose to delete, and I suggest that everything that was written in Article 35, which my colleagues had previously said, was also said by the professional public in Serbia, which you are well informed of and your ministry. You know exactly the names. I don't want to be able to identify those people now and call them, but you know who they are, what they are, and that they are names of integrity. He didn't say that now there's an MP you can judge or judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46631	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 13. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravković. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46632	Madam President, thank you. So here's a confirmation of everything that's been said about a member of the 35th Old Law. The position of the 2nd old law in article 47 says - the former protection act is passed by the ministry after previously obtained consent by the competent ministries. What did you do now? You threw out consent and wrote – with your opinions obtained. That's the thing. So someone is going to give an opinion from another ministry, and based on that opinion, this article of the 35th that you are now passing into the law will be applied. That's the point. So, at the small door, no consent, no opinion. Whom does the opinion oblige? On the basis of an opinion that may be available, is there an estimate? It's not coming, Mr. Minister. Opinion is a free appraisal, and consent is something else entirely. So this is a confirmation of your intention to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46633	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few minutes ago I was informed that we would be in direct transmission by 18.25 hours, and that a session would be followed in the delayed transmission. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46634	This is an amendment to the same article, with this proposal to change attitude 5. We felt that as proposed, where there are no deadlines, we felt that some deadlines were to be introduced and such an amendment was to be submitted, i.e. a solution to previous protection being announced within seven days in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Therefore, we are introducing a deadline until it is published in the Official Messenger, and then, within 15 days, it is delivered to the authority responsible for declaring a protected area, to the local self-government on whose territory the area is located, under prior protection and shelter for registration in the register of protected natural goods. Given that you are in an explanation, which you have rejected the previous amendment that applied to this article as well, where we believe that it is not enough to just obtain an opinion, but that you should wait for the agreement of certain ministries, and that because of that you state that it is speed, why you refuse that agreement to last for a long time, etc., then you should have accepted this amendment, because this amendment is currently talking about speed and deadlines. As you've left this open, it can be published in an official messenger in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46635	The amendment proposed by adding a new member of 26a was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, the MPs Radisa Ilic and the MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic submitted the same text. Mr. Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46636	Article 28. The draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act has caused a lot of controversy in the public, as is Article 13, of course, questionable to the Government, especially since these members are changing some previous legal provisions concerning, above all, the implementation of works, projects and activities in the protected area. In particular, amendments to Article 28, proposed by the Government, introduce additional powers to the Government to approve, without clear procedures, without criteria and professional verifications, a series of prohibited, incompatible activities which are contrary to the protection regime in a given area. All this is based on a free assessment of the existence of alleged general interest in the state. Usually it's not like that in practice. This is, above all, well thought-out for possible future damages and harmful decisions regarding protected nature objects. What's very important to mention here, and it's kind of falling back from that swearing in the international community and the EU, as we've had the opportunity to hear here, is the fact that the proposed change and contrast with international standards is being proposed. In addition, the whole issue has been mentioned by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, commented on the amendment to Article 13 and these two members are closely connected and should take into account the opinion of competent and professional people who also requested that members 13 and 28 be deleted. The majority of the votes of the ruling coalition have found a Solomonian solution and have proposed to the assembly board such an amendment, to find some golden environment, I think there has been no real solution and that in some ways you have just tried to cloud the situation, but the issue remains open as to how protected areas will function.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46637	Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46638	Here's another confirmation, the current minister's intention. In the current law: ''In the protected area, work and activities are prohibited... '"It is repeated in the attitude of the 1st of this new member, but attitude 2 says: 'the government may, in accordance with the law, allow works and activities, or projects in the protected area, especially from the area... "and so on. So, "Government can" or "Minister can." All the Ministers can, and allow for such types of work. It's the essence of where this law leads. Alpha and omega is the minister, who, by his exclusive right, will allow certain construction in protected natural resources, whether it is any object, and these objects are listed here. That is the essence of the amendments and additions of this law, from Article 35 to the article I just commented on, to Article 57. It's the government's intention, or ministry. So, Mr. Minister is an alpha and an omega, he's the one who's going to give exclusive rights, and we've already had experience where these exclusive rights are given. We know a lot of things about it. It's a European law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46639	Minister Dulic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46640	Who is it given to, can you tell me, please, Mr. Dimitrievich? Then I will explain to you what the idea of protection in Serbia is and the reason why we need to apply this kind of legal solution, which means a clear and precise definition of what is allowed and what must not be built in protected natural goods. Then I'll tell you the reason, but tell me what you know, because I'm just listening to you, we know something. What do you know? Do you know anything about me breaking the law? If you know, please say it. So we're honest people and we want to bring order into the country. We're trying to do it the best way we can, not letting anyone break the law. All that we notice is that the problems in Serbia, they stem from the fact that we have laws that are not precise and clear enough. That's our intention. When we say that the government has this ability to approve something, it means something that is in the national interest. What if, for example, we as a state have to build a reversible hydropower plant on Gerdap, which is a national park, protecting the front row? So who's the one who can approve? The country needs this electricity potential, because at some point we will take over the quantified obligations of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with the existing Kyoto protocol, or some other protocols that will come into the future? One minute we're going to have to change our energy strategy and shut down the thermal power plants and invest in hydro potentials. At that moment, the government will say – regardless of what is protected natural well-being, it is a top-notch national interest that must now be implemented. Until then, we've clearly defined these solutions what they can do, what they can't do. I'll tell you why. One thing is, that's what rules as a belief, that we just translate European directives. I will read to you what the translation of the European Directive looks like: "In the second degree of protection, management interventions can be carried out in order to restore, revitalise and overall improvement of the protected area, without resulting in the primary value of their natural habitats, populations, ecosystems, demarcation and geonasal objects, performing traditional activities and limited use of natural resources in a sustainable and strictly controlled manner". That's how Europeans write it, because in their countries it means something, and then we write in Serbian: "The protection regime II degree: 1) prohibits the construction of industrial, metallurgical and mining facilities, asphalt bases, oil refineries, as well as facilities for storage and sale of oil derivatives... '', which allows, under certain conditions that are approved by the Section, or the Institute of Nature Protection, to make family facilities for rest, pre-orientation, permission to be used for scientific research, etc. So that's how we have to write the law. If we had left it like Mr. Plužarevic said, as professors fight, to remain this formulation, then those same would remain on the possibility of them assessing whether, in some protected natural good, certain conditions could be given to exploit some ore. We've banned this member. We've banned the law, we've given some professors the opportunity to evaluate and allow certain conditions under which something can be used for natural good. It's the first time we've put this strict norm into law. There's no arbitration, and there's no way to interpret it one way or another. Just by accepting the amendments, or by joining the two amendments, we wanted to meet, to show, because so many of these teachers praise the solution that was in the law, we're going to leave it, but in addition, we're going to specify the legal norm and say what it can and can't be built. When you read me something, I'm sure you don't know it. You don't know all the facts. Unlike you, Mr Dimitrievich, I know what is behind the letters that arrive at the opposition parliamentary clubs, which criticise the solutions we offer, and we only offer them because we know what the situation is on the ground. We have made a decision to prohibit the construction of certain objects, which were prepared to be built, if some in the name of nature protection give conditions. That's what we do. I know that because you don't know, when you read, you think – God, that's what some wonderful people wrote because they care about nature. They don't care about nature. They worry about taking away their privileges in this way to decide whether something can be built or not, that's the real truth. This whole set of changes and additions serves to protect nature even more, and that's an idea. It is true that we should give the government the opportunity to decide to step away from this, when there are things that are of interest. That's where they're defined exactly when they can stand down. It will not be allowed to build a residential business complex in a protected natural good because the government has decided so. Of course not. These are things that are allowed only in case you need to protect something that is a vital state interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46641	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46642	It's obvious, Mr. Minister, we don't understand each other. You mentioned the area of energy and hydropower plant Đerdap 3, and no one slowed it down for you, but here is the mention of tourism and sport and mining, in the government's free opinion that this agreement can be given in a protected good. No one told you about the hydropower plant. What about mining? What about the Water Act, Mr. Minister, where it is given in Article 47? - nuclear facilities? What are nuclear facilities? Are you interested, have you heard of this law, have you read it? The law has been passed, where both the state and local self-government are given the opportunity to make a decision on construction. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking one thing, you're talking the other. Then when we warned you about this and asked why the Ministry of Environment was not involved in the Water Law, he said – it is not our jurisdiction. What do you mean, it's not? Whose jurisdiction is it? You didn't answer on that. Under that law, we are now going to build atomic power plants, on a small door, step by step, quietly, crawling, certain provisions are being introduced, and that is the case with this law. It's the essence of changing those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46643	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46644	Mr Dimitrijevic, do you know that there are already institutions in Serbia called Serbia's nuclear facilities? Please take a look at all nuclear facilities. We have nuclear facilities today, but they're not nuclear power plants. I said my position, which is certain I am the attitude of most people sitting in this government today. While this government is doing its job, make sure that no one will run any story about building a nuclear power plant on Serbia's territory. Today to start building, today to make a decision to build, it would eventually start working in 2020 and some years, because there are needs to form special teams of people, which we unfortunately don't have today, who are educated for these activities. It is necessary to make very strict environmental impact assessments, to determine the location, all that is the import of necessary materials, etc. Don't scare the people with a false charge that this government wants to build a power plant. It's not a nuclear power plant. It's all nuclear. Don't use the natural non-information of our citizens regarding any atomic energy, to scare them of things they're objectively afraid of. It is also forbidden in this country until 2015. We have a restraining order. Since 2015, if a government makes such a decision, I doubt it is possible to implement it in the next 15 years. Once and for all, let's put it out of force. We have huge potentials and capacities for the use of renewable energy sources that we need, above all, to use, which I'm sure can bring good and good to our citizens. For the end only, of course mining. What if they find themselves in a protected natural good gold or diamonds or anything else that's rich ore that can help this country? What are we gonna do? The government can approve of the exploitation of these ores under certain circumstances and conditions as the country's natural wealth, because it has happened to find something in protected natural resources that can serve the development of our society's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46645	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 157, Article 6. Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has submitted an amendment to Article 32. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The proposal for a law is an old article 70. We suggest that in this Article 34, or Article 70, paragraph 2 and point 3 change and read, I read: ''All motor vehicles passing and entering the protected area must pay compensation. The fee shall be charged on points, entry stations or anywhere else with a coded card. The charge will also be carried out in tunnels passing through the protected area.' We believe, concerning the amendment and addition of this Article 34, or old Article 70, that in these protected spaces this fee should be bought and that this fee is used for the purpose of improving the quality of this protected space. Now I'm going to tell you on the case practically how we imagined it. For example, in Fruska Mountain National Park, which has 25,000 hectares, no charge is made, or compensation for the use of the area. In the event of compensation for the use of this space, the area of the National Park of Fruska Gora would certainly improve the quality of service to all interested people entering that protected area for one degree of activity. In particular, for 36 years I've been working and working in this protected space, and I know how the budget is formed, that is, how the funding works. Usually government or ministry, or anyone gives or provides a certain financial service. It's about 1.5 to 2% of the total budget and it's dedicated to some cultural monuments that need to be protected there. Everything else is released to commercial, or verse. How the organisation is set up so that it can establish the financing and functioning of the system. Why am I saying this - through the tunnels, and just because someone imagined that through Frusch Mountain, somewhere in the perspective, I guess it's just imagination, that it's political marketing, that it's going to drill through the Frusch Mountain, and that it's going through the Frusch Mountain, you know that path that goes towards Capco and has a connection, etc. We believe that the amendments and additions of this article in 34 should be complemented by this sentence that we, as Serbian radicals, have proposed here and we think it is a valid solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46647	National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Zdravković submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. That the line wants a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Služarevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 45. In Article 45. (Article 110 of the Old Law, which is changing) point 5 is changed and it is said, we are a little bit like this to say here we were radical in proposing this comment, and we have suggested what a guard should do – it must have at least a middle professional gear, that it speaks one foreign language, that it has a driver's exam A, B and C category, to drive a boat, or a boat, or a boat, that it has one year of work experience in the profession, laid down professionally, that it is psychophysically capable of mountain service, to know that it swims, uses a parachute, knows martial arts and that it meets the prescribed conditions for carrying arms and other conditions established by the instrument of the controller. We think this is a picture of a future frame that needs to be in a protected space, and you respect, you who are in power, and you're constantly bonding with that Western alliance and that American, let's say, variant. So, out there in their parks, those guards are also driving planes. You know, they're pilots, too. Then we think that, according to this proposed amendment, where we have decidedly listed what has to be done, we believe that these future generations of these people will do something to make this space representatively represented, representatively protected, and that it, as a representative in that space, can protect, protect through its authority, and its own authority will come out of all these skills, knowledge and skills that one guard has.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46649	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46650	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in terms of revitalising and increasing productivity of production, are also required a shorter time of the nature protection programme, so here in my amendment to Article 48, I have submitted that the period be reduced i.e. to make it out of 10 eight years, and for local self-government to be five years. However, we know well that, in terms of evolution, man worked to harm nature in creating industrialization, and in order to prevent all of this, that industrialization and man would have to gain from it, he thought very little of nature. By creating large factories, large giants, normally, it had to be thought about the environment, but unfortunately it was a shorter time. I'm telling you this because I've been doing this job in the big chemical industry, especially with respect to the protection of human nature, where it was necessary to invest in certain filters depending on what kind of aggregate state of view or in what aggregate state these waste parts or wastes occur in these factories. That is why I believe that this period of ten years, in terms of monitoring the programme, is long, because productivity and increasing certain revitalisation of certain production programmes requires a daily change in productivity, and I demand that time be reduced. Mr. Minister, however, I believe, listening to your exposure, I believe that Serbia suffered the greatest pollution it could experience on 12 April 2008 when you said as a paraliamentary in the Netherlands that Serbia had committed the greatest criminal and the greatest genocide over non-Serb population in the past wars. Once again, I ask you, if what you're saying, if you really think so, or if only in a given way, you're in that place where you are and you have to represent. That goes for every representative in the ministry. If, really, what you're saying and what you're saying or what you want to deceive, or to lie to Serbian citizens, I really can't believe whether more citizens will be able to stick to that glue you're cheating on every day with certain stories. There are 200 workers in the King's service to perform certain repairs there. Did you take it in your personal direction, as a minister, or did you just do it to show in the election campaign how much you hold on to it or as a minister who wants to help? You're still a doctor. I'm listening to you talk about spatial planning. What does that have to do with anything? Every local self-government related to this spatial planning is criminalized, and you won't talk about it. It's pure crime. Whenever a man tells you that you want to foam, talk about how it's not true, and every day when you go out on the street, you see that it's all criminal. Serbia fought against it 20 or 30 years ago. You allegedly fought on October 5th to make Serbia better today and to be a democracy. Tell me, please, so one of the most democratic countries in America, who has guarded the greatest criminals who have done evil in all the camps of the Serbian people and you talk about some democracy, you talk about your friends, you talk about how you live in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46651	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46652	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, it is probably not clear to you from the previous presentation what the speaker wanted to say, as I do not understand. I don't know how many of these we've heard have really touched points with the law that's on the agenda today. I have a book in my hand called "Parliamentary-Process Law." The book describes how laws are passed and how laws should be passed. Among other things, the author of this book, Ljubomir Jovic says – the law is against the ignorant who despises science based on science and the law is based on facts and on real life. Real life is something that makes me react when I hear words like this. First of all, I've never heard Mr Oliver Dulic say something like that that someone is trying to impute him or anyone from the DS. On the other hand, I don't understand why someone's stamping prominent construction firms that they're a crime scene and I'm comfortable with construction firms that exist at the bar, some criminals don't know what they're doing. These are people who hire hundreds of workers, pay salaries and taxes for their place under the sun, with their ten honest fingers. And about who, who and how he led to the King, the DS Parliament Club took out the money from his pocket and paid the masters, but not because it was an election campaign, but because we have feelings for the victims of a major elemental disaster. They're not choices now, and don't call elections, because when the elections come, some of you don't cross the censorship. Some of you see the election as a doomsday, but don't let the difficult situation in the King make it even more difficult for us to discuss things like this. It won't be better for the citizens of the Kings than for this kind of discussion. If you have anything to say to the citizens of the Kings, dry up your sleeves and go to the King to really help people out there a little bit. Such discussions do not help the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor the citizens of the kings, nor the citizens of this country. Your job is to criticise the government, try to impose on voters, move them, encourage those tananic emotions with them and say, "Here we are, who can do better." The desire for improvement, the desire for progress, is not achieved by making false facts. The desire for improvement is not achieved by pointing your finger at any cost and claiming to be one or another. So I didn't understand what your proposal for this amendment was, but from what you've put forward as an explanation for your amendment, I believe it should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46653	Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46654	You know how, you can explain it to someone for days and nights, but he can't understand it, because everything depends on his habitat, in fact, on how God created him. However, what is very important is this. I was talking about this amendment, wanting to point out the gaps that are happening. For example, when a gentleman talks about the construction mafia, about Omni stok, where the main owner of Sekloća, who performs works in this assembly, I would ask you if any of you know how much this Sekloja has fed Serbia with companies throughout Serbia? That's one problem, and that's why I was talking about 15 days ago, to meet the MPs here in the Assembly, to let you know who's doing these construction work. Who allowed the owner of that company to perform these papers when he's on criminal charges? You keep talking about one honest job. It's okay to hire people, we're all for it, it's normal for people to get jobs, look at how many unemployed they are. Look at the big giants all over Serbia, where these companies work in 30 to 40 years, then here. During the 1990s, did Slobodan Milosevic's suspension occur, is he incarcerated by a giant? It's not closed. There were workers working in it, even though it was an economic blockade, even though we had the hottest bombing of your friends. Look where Serbia was. The young gentleman talks, but I ask him – where did he first start his work? He hasn't worked anywhere, he has no idea where he's going to work or where he's going to work. That's the one problem. What are you talking about? I've worked for 30 years in companies, from workers to intellectuals, and I can answer exactly what and how these companies have done, or how and how all these 10 years have been misused since you've been in power. Please don't lie to this people anymore. Don't talk about democracy. Don't talk about a nice life. Talk about how much you owe this country? How much and how is each Serbian resident in charge? Speak for you, if you can get it out of your pocket. I'm afraid you've paid the workers who work there. I know a lot of people who left on October 5th with citizens from Capco to destroy power in Belgrade. As you were saying then about the cops at the checkpoints - kill them. Those people were doing their job. What happened at Pride Parade now? Those people who were in security, is that how they were treated? You're laughing because you're hit in the heart and because you know it's like that and it's the truth that I'm telling you and that lying is what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46655	Gentlemen, I would ask that we take care of Parliament's dignity and the way we address each other. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46656	Dear citizens of Serbia, I know who I am and what I am. I've only had a job job for 25 years. I worked at a private company, I had a private farm for the production of pig, I was a graduate farming engineer, so many phenomena can be understood very well. Not only can I understand them, I've mastered pigmaking. I don't think we're here to explain to the citizens who we are and whether they know us or don't know us. The citizens have evaluated and given judgment on us who we are and who we are in the elections. They're always grading us in the election. These same citizens rated me in the Krusevec elections, you same citizens. I got barely 51% of my support. In my election unit, the candidate of the SRS did not even pass the censorship, because the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Kruševac know who is who. I say I'm a graduate agricultural engineer. I've had a lot at my university on environmental issues. I was in marketing, design. I've never worked at a state firm, and I've never had a chance to try out on state affairs in state firms, because I thought I had enough knowledge and energy and talent to be able to work in private. I'm saying again that it's not appropriate for us to talk about ourselves or to talk about ourselves now. The citizens of Serbia do so much better. I don't feel the need to explain to the esteemed magistrate, Srboljub Zivanovic, who I am, what I am, where I come from, and what I have from school. But I still don't understand what he was going to say with his amendment? Because I don't understand this amendment of his, I don't think I'm intellectually disabled in relation to him or superior to him. On the contrary, I believe that the opposition and position should discuss and face arguments, but it seems that when my predecessor's exposure disagrees with arguments and facts, it is so much more difficult for argument and fact. I know there are people who are convinced of the correctness of their views. I followed today. There is one association of citizens, very large by number, which today believes the country is a flat panel. They publish their newspapers, have their television shows, even have their own group, not only on Facebook, but in some countries they try to cross the censorship. Will they die just as happy or unhappy as we will in our ignorance? No, I don't. They die the same way we do, but they believe the earth is a flat plate. If the consequences of their ignorance remained within that length, it would be perfect for that society, but when a person starts to demonstrate his ignorance as a supreme value and a supreme knowledge, then society is in danger. St. Nikolaj Velimirovic says nicely: "Today it is easy to teach the leprechaun and the savages. It's easy to teach an animal today, but it's the hardest thing to learn to teach someone who wants to teach lessons better than himself. "
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46657	Mr. Ilic, you have five minutes as an authorised representative and 21 minutes of your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative of the SRS, I would only like to correct Mr Milivojevic. He spoke of rolling sleeves and helping and some charitable and humanitarian works in the King. I'd just like to correct you. On Saturday, I, fellow MP Mirko Munjic and 20 radicals, are here photos, if you want to see later, we rolled up our sleeves and helped the Royals as much as we could. Mr. Krpić is a witness - an MP from the Kings. Therefore, I invite you to join all those volunteers who these days possess the King with the best wishes that people move into their new homes as soon as possible. Speaking of new homes, here's a photograph, a small one, showing a caravan with a tarp, in which the family, I think, is called Zecevic, has been sleeping for ten days. No one's going to see them. They've got two kids. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46659	Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ljiljana Zdravković submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE AUTHORITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Srboljub Živanovic, Radiša Ilic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Filip Stojanović, Radica Jocic, Vitomir Plužarević, Nikola Savivić, Dusan Marić, Vladan Jeremic, Milorad Krstin, as well as an amendment that is based on Article 157 of Article 6. Rules of Procedure submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection. You have received a report from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46660	In Article 2 of point 35, the word "before treatment" is deleted, I wrote in this amendment. The explanation – the amendment proposes to delete these words because the definition of 'waste treatment' is lost. What did I really want with that? You see, today we're trying to collect this primary or secondary waste to make a certain selection, or certain treatment of that waste, that classification. In this desire, we want to separate plastics, iron or any other product that can be used today during all this treatment, i.e. in revitalization and in terms of production, or in terms of raw materials. In fact, it was my goal, not to do this treatment twice in this respect, but in fact, when choosing the product itself, which would also improve the way where this purchase of these secondary raw materials is done, that would in some ways improve this treatment of faster delivery to companies using these secondary raw materials. That is why I think that you should accept my amendment, because as regards this treatment, I think, in your presentation, Mr. Minister said how and how this treatment is done today and the purchase of secondary raw materials that can cause an economic disaster, such as in the case of accumulators, where today this treatment, the separation of plastics, the separation of lead, the separation of acid in some way in these adequate plants, contributes to doing so in quality and to being also protected by man's environment. I think you should accept my amendment, because that amendment is improving this waste law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46661	On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. The amendment concerns the basic Article 21, which deals with joint management of waste units of local self-government. It is known that units of local self-government, one or more of them, can, in fact, conclude an internal agreement, an agreement, in order to jointly manage waste, of course, under conditions and in the way it is determined by law, strategy, the agreement of those congregations of local self-government units. However, it happens that in practice it does not work as imagined, i.e. as foreseen by this agreement, and the government has added a new position to specify what the Government should do and to take action in situations where it does not work as it has been drawn up by both this strategy and that agreement. I have submitted an amendment with a proposal to delete the word "joint" in this new attitude and I will explain why. The question arises: how will these municipalities, after the government's decision, which failed to comply with the law, now under the pressure of the government, jointly implement waste management, and it is obvious that they had no capacity for such a thing. The responsibility for this situation, if it comes to it, should be borne by the Ministry, because the agreement has been given by that ministry and it should have seen whether these municipalities can actually implement what they signed in the agreement. The amendment proposes a solution that would allow the government to be freed from the fact that in such situations it is not re-connected to one of the specific municipalities, or more, mentioned in the agreement. Apparently, they haven't done their part of the job, maybe they don't have the staff, they don't have the resources, maybe they don't even have the will. We know for some time that among municipalities it works and vanity over some common issues, so this amendment may have given the government a wider room for manoeuvre that sometimes it does not rely solely on these local self-governments that did not respect what was under that agreement, which was supposed to be, but simply that the government itself solves the problem with the funds already foreseen by the local self-government budget. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46663	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46664	A colleague, Filip Stojanović, submitted an amendment to Article 6. This is a member of the 31st basic law and refers to a qualified person responsible for professional work. The amendment by Mr Filip Stojanovic refers to a qualified person who is responsible for professional work on managing hazardous waste. This is where the condition for the school's training should have that face. Here, the government has proposed that this person should have at least a medium professional training with a trained traineeship. At the beginning of this attitude is said – a qualified person responsible for professional work. However, there is much to be done here, and that is why we have made the amendment that the "medium expert prepares" is deleted, with the proposal that this person "have the least completed primary academic studies of four years in technical and technological sciences". Still, it's a little unserious for a middle-aged person to do this kind of delicate work, such as managing harmless waste. In an explanation, the government responded that the decision, or legal provision, should come as a ballast for certain entrepreneurs who may not have so much of that waste, making it difficult for them to employ highly qualified persons. However, what about those entrepreneurs, or legal persons who have large amounts of this waste, who use this possibility to hire a person with medium professional equipment or simply add that obligation to someone. I think it would still be appropriate for this amendment to be adopted for reasons of security and for citizens and the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46665	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46666	Radica Jocic has submitted an amendment to Article 8 of this proposal to amend and supplement the law, with a proposal to delete the article 8. The position he suggested should actually be deleted refers to a minister who prescribes closer conditions and criteria for determining the location. Then technical, technological impact for design, production, work and waste management plants, storage facilities, physical-chemical waste treatment plants, etc. So, everything that's been, about lately, not to say irritated the public and citizens of Serbia, specifically related to building a plant for the physical-chemical treatment of waste. Since article 34 refers to the location for the construction and operation of the facility, which is one sensitive issue, the Serbian Radical Party is proposing that this Article 8 be deleted, because in some ways the minister avoids the responsibility to, behold, prescribe these criteria and transfer them, that heavy ballast to someone else. We're talking about some conditions and criteria here. In the government's explanation, it is also stated why the government does not accept this amendment, and then says the law requires conditions and criteria. You know what, when we had the opportunity to sort of confront the executive authority to build a facility for the physical-chemical treatment of hazardous waste in Ćuprija, and now, let's say, in Ćivac, unfortunately, many criteria mentioned in the law are not respected. Some conditions are not respected, such as the proximity of roads, the proximity of groundwater, the proximity of schools, and so on, agricultural land. Such things in the EU, which many here call upon, could not possibly pass. The fact that there are laws and these sublegal acts, they sort of regulate the construction of these facilities, and in fact they are not respected, and the government, as far as we have had the opportunity to see from experience, simply tries to approve local self-government to give consent to the construction of such facilities, regardless of the consequences of the citizens, whether or not the criteria prescribed for building such plants are respected. We had an opportunity in Cicevic to see, in order to please the President of the Municipality of Mr Krkić, they gave him a Mercedes, which was taken away in Slovenia, because unfortunately it proved stolen, so our delegation experienced a series of inconveniences in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46667	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. In Article 37 after Article 4, point 5 is added, which reads: "All types of mobile waste treatment facilities are granted". The explanation is this: ''Amendment shall not be accepted for reasons why this proposal does not provide for erasure of Article 5, Article 37. The waste management law, already adding item 5, under which the permit is issued for all types of mobile waste treatment facilities, and the addition of the item 5 is contradictory to Article 9. The proposal for a law allowing the identification of types of mobile facilities for which work is authorised, which means the specification of these facilities, such as thermal treatment facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46669	You'll have to sign up again. The time has been recorded, but you are now speaking in the time foreseen for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46670	I have this break in my presentation, and I'd like you to accept that, and I think that break is correct. When I move from one topic to another, I have to concentrate, and then you -- cap, and now I've lost my continuity, but here I remembered everything... (President: I'm sorry, I didn't realize. So, about this amendment, I'm surprised that you don't accept it, and you've visited the world on the subject of these mobile facilities. This is what I say to all the people who participated in the organisation of waste regulation in Serbia. Dear Serbian citizens, gentlemen, there have been excursions in all of Serbia for 10 years, so the expensive president of the municipality and now they're going to Vienna, Grac, Germany, anywhere, and when they go there, they're being educated, informed, shown to them the mobile facilities I've been talking about, that is, how they can quickly and efficiently cut up, turn some plastic into a granulate. I suggested this granulate, I proposed this proposal, and the ministry doesn't care about it. So there are 4,000 unsettled dumps in Serbia. It's just some statistical data, and there's probably more. They know where these dumps are. They're right where they shouldn't be dumps, they're visible places. I wanted to ask Mr. Dulic to ask him if he knew, and do you know how proud he said – "The Fourth of July", we ended it all, we did it; let him go to see where his dumps are, let him go to see the condition of these dumps. So, regarding a member of this mobile comment, we want to improve this law with mobile means. That's the point and that's the comment of the SRS. I also asked when we were on the Committee, I asked the ministry gentlemen if this law would stop the trip of these imaginary spenders of money from the Republic of Serbia. It was not paid by the Austrians, it is the money of our citizens, because they are well-wrought, ready and straight for Vienna, Grac, Dresden, to return and not a single facility, related to the processing of this waste, realised in Serbia. There's a system of technology, what needs to be separated, how to convert that natural resource into humus, into waste, etc. It's not gonna happen. The minister said in his comment that there are nuclear facilities. We also asked about these nuclear facilities, he says -- it's not a nuclear power plant, what you know, you have no idea, it's a nuclear facility. We fear it, for we know that it will be like harassment to the public, and for nuclear waste – no, it is an object. That nobody knows, they're making some microcrylic markings out there and based on these markings can be deposited, and that's more cost-effective than a nuclear power plant. That West wants the Danube to filter us out, they want to get rid of that circus, that nuclear waste. It's a question for the minister, it's for him to comment, does he know how much nuclear waste theirs, I mean you from the government, brothers who came from America, I mean NATO, threw at Serbia. So, those kids of ours down south, where they were shooting. You live in Belgrade under some umbrella and you don't know what's out there, and what pain these people are, and what they've experienced there in Kosovo and wherever they've been throwing nuclear waste. It's a question of environmental protection, that's where you bring your field trip. Why didn't you bring this Clinton girl here, when she came to Belgrade, to show her -- here, ma'am, this is your husband bombed, this downtown Belgrade; to show her to be ashamed and to go back to where she came from, without any comment, but to bow down like -- ma'am, that's all right, we're democracy. What democracy? So it's a question of environmental protection and the minister has to take care of it. Not to take care and now to brag about building operations. He says there's a colleague here. Say it, say it. Well, we have a lot to say, Minister, but here he is not in the O.R. How do we tell him, he doesn't come to the board, he's gone now, and then he says, "What?" It's like, "Touch me when we're little, like whoever touches whom he beats." No, he has to come to the Assembly, he has to sit here, he has to listen to the president of the assembly, he has to listen to every MP, and especially because you educated him, which he was an educational figure, some previous comments, was the president of the assembly. You see, he's gone now, just like he does. What's the matter with him? This is the most difficult thing we're discussing here today. Look how many of us are in the O.R. It's a set of laws to protect the environment. When Milivojevic leaves, then Hope comes. Now Milivojevic is free, now he'll take the burden on himself, etc. The minister got away and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46671	Mr. Milivojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46672	I'm here in the O.R., Madam President, and I don't intend to go anywhere until the end of the session, as I do every time, but I have to really express my sometimes admiration for what we hear here and what we can really see as free interpretation of the speakers. You know, if you have the Internet, and I can see that you don't have it, but you probably have it in your office, go to Google "Nuclear Objects of Serbia" and you'll see that there is a public company Nuclear Objects of Serbia, which will for the first time participate in an international environmental fair that will take place from 13 October to 15 October. That's what they say here on the site. If you don't have a website and you don't have an Internet, and everyone here in the O.R. has a Wireless, you can check in your office. On the other hand, you're talking about someone sending Dunavo nuclear waste. You know, the Danube doesn't stop running in Serbia. The Danube is an international river. That river flows right through those western lands. If you don't know who makes everything a Danube plum, I'll just remind you that the Danube is pouring into the Black Sea. If someone throws nuclear waste to the Danube to run to Serbia, it will not stay in Serbia but end up in the Black Sea. So a layman's perception of things, so layish understanding and interpretation of things can be a good topic for some party meetings, for the central counties, for a meeting of the municipal or local committee, but it's not good to scare the citizens in that way, because the citizens should at least be told the truth. If you don't know and you can't explain the truth when you talk about some law, don't intimidate the citizens. The citizens are scared enough anyway. It's enough for the citizens of fear and enough for the citizens of suspense. Keep in mind that this session of the congregation is not just about college-educated people, as well as about people who have high school, primary school, who have not had the possibility of schooling. They hear the MP say someone from the Danube world is sending nuclear waste to Serbia and delivering nuclear waste. Of course, what is said in this high house is understood as the truth and are beginning to believe it. Of course, they come up with a choice, and then you see how much the citizens actually trust you and how much this kind of talk, this kind of explanation of a law enjoys the confidence of the citizens. Then you'll be surprised at the fact that you don't cross the census in all those cities where you haven't crossed the census. You know, it's possible to change politics, it's possible to change political attitudes and ideas, but it's not possible to change the people. The people of Serbia, as he is, he is our judge in the election. We're trying to change the minds of this society for the better. We try to be bearers of progressive and advanced ideas. We offer these advanced progressive ideas not only to the citizens, but also to the people of the opposition. We're always giving you a hand. When we go to Europe, we are not the only ones who will go, and we will push you away with our hands and say, "You cannot." We'll take you with us, too, because we want the grace of society to be enjoyed by you. We want it to be nice to you, too, to make you feel better. We want to show you that when it comes out of the cave there's a sun outside for all of us. That sun belongs to both you and us. What we're saying is that the benefits of civilization aren't just our own, and once our mandate is over, what we've done, so we're not taking plows, we're not loading up on our backs and taking it somewhere, leaving it to all the citizens of this country. What is bad, it will be our shame, Mr. Zivanovic, but what is good, and much is good, it will be the common grace of all citizens of this country. Therefore, we really believe that when we do good deeds and repair the state of Serbia and repair the awareness of the citizens of this country, we repair you, too, because we do not hate you, we do not despise you, we do not humiliate you, we do not degrade your attitudes, on the contrary, we deeply respect them, but we cannot accept them as true and well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46673	Ambassador Vitomir Plužarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46674	All I have is the possibility to inform my colleague Milivojevic that they have understood the citizens involved in this nuclear waste, that he is not being released into the Danube, etc. That's what the people know. I don't think Mr. Milivojevic understood a message about this incident he was in Hungary. He ran to the Danube, and the Western Alliance sent packaged high-quality sorted nuclear waste to a specific address. So, Mr. Milivoevich, don't worry about the waste of nuclear waste in the Danube. As for that cave comment, I think you must know well that where we live, how we function, etc., we appreciate that cave comment. It's so-called. The rural system of life in which you were working and congratulating until yesterday. You were a breeder in that system, you know what. I'm not mad about it, but we mostly know what we're commenting on and in what direction we're informing the people. The people know to perfection where you are, what you are, and where this ship is headed, which you feed, or the wind, which you don't know in which direction it directs you, the wind that's called the wind, and you know what the wind is. So you'll fly along with the wind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46675	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46676	How much time does the parliamentary group have? (President: You have 14 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a waste management law. Before I move on to the amendment itself, I have to say that in this House, we are kind of going over this law and the whole set of laws that we've been considering all afternoon. I think of these laws before this and we have one law left, because waste is the biggest problem of modern humanity. I don't see Mr. Secretary here. I think we had to pay a little more attention to this law. Nature takes a certain toll on everything a man does with it, and therefore all of us, from the largest companies and businesses to the ordinary man, would have to find some agreement, some agreement with nature, so that the tax that nature takes would be as small as possible, but it cruelly punishes all those who are grammistic and the more the tax gets bigger and the consequences are getting worse by man and humanity and they come back as boomerang. Waste is the greatest evil of the modern man, waste is not good in the virtual world, it's not good in our computer either. If we don't empty that basket, you know it slows down our computer's work. No wonder because of these dirty technologies, because of the waste, because of the dumps, we have more and more protests from citizens in both Serbia and the world. We know that the dumps that are to be made in Serbia's territory are moving from the north of the country, the central part of Serbia, to the southern part of Serbia, because when citizens understand what is going on and what is waiting for them, they simply show their dissatisfaction and want to resist it. Biggest companies, most of the profit goes to conditions that have to be met to make that waste safe. To return to the amendment. The amendment is to article 10 of the law, where I asked this member of the law to be deleted. For what reason did I ask him to delete himself? Under certain conditions, a member of the law provides that dangerous and non-hazardous types of waste may be mixed at certain landfills. I thought it was inadmissible, to mix dangerous and harmless waste, because it always leads to the overall mix taking into account the characteristics of hazardous waste. It's a famous phenomenon in physics, where lower-temperature heat can never move to the body more temperature, but vice versa. You here are referring to a specific European declaration 99/31, etc., where you say that some waste can and should be mixed with harmless waste. I remind you of the fact that no one, nor the most modern and powerful companies and institutes, are fully aware and cannot fully appreciate the consequences of all kinds of waste, so that predicting something whose consequences we do not know is neither smart nor useful. So I urge the government's representatives to reconsider whether this amendment should be accepted, and I am convinced that when everything and everything is mixed up, it can come to everything and everything, and that everything and everything can be made and how problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46677	Ambassador Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46678	I wanted to rely on my colleague Nikola Savic's words and say that really roses are blooming in Serbia today, and today Serbia is all in roses, as Mr. Tadic said, "Serbia – that's me". It should be said that the most profitable factory today, which has achieved surplus in its business, is very attached to secondary raw materials. If you look at the factories that worked until 2000, today these factories are being cut down and driven to the hardware store, where iron is being melted. The point is how the economy of today's Serbia works. That's what's most productive today, as we have the most profitable factories in local self-government, and these are municipalities, where they are employed politically similar. It is, in fact, that secondary waste today in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46679	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Dusan Maric has tabled an amendment to Article 16. Proposal to amend and supplement the Waste Management Act. Article 16 refers to Article 72 of the basic law, and Article 72 refers to imports, exports and transit of waste. This is a good conjecture for what was a bit of a waste pollemic, in this case nuclear, and it's not burned to mention other options when it comes to waste. The SRS has proposed that point 2 be deleted in licence applications. Why? Because the government has proposed erasing this very point that it says "proves evidence of the notification or approval of all the countries through which the waste passes to the final destination". Why did the government have an interest in eradicating a point in proving, or seeing, the notification or approval of all the countries through which this waste went and came to our borders? I don't know why the government wants to hide a trail of this waste to our border. Of course, here they call for their new position, that these are some conventions, but more or less, they could hold on to point 2. Since there have been a lot of words here about nuclear waste, and a member of 72 deals with imports, exports and transit of waste through Serbia, I would just like to remind my fellow MPs and the public in Serbia of something that was said in 2008. If anyone wants to check it out, have them check it out. Mr. Aleksandar Peric of the Chamber of Commerce in 2008 made a statement that the government has set 16 secret locations at three macro-region in Serbia to build a warehouse of radioactive waste. So, I've given the data and those who talk all the time about the Internet, let them type in the name Alexander Peric, the Chamber of Commerce, the warehouse of radioactive waste, and you'll see that what I'm talking about is true. This problem is being introduced to the gentlemen of the Ministry of Science. Of course, there was talk here about the construction of these objects, with Vojvodina being left out with a note that it was a cereal. So it's still harmful. If Vojvodina is left out, the question is what is wrong with other regions in Serbia, whether they are fruit trees in Cačka or, say, gardens in Leskovac, because of them and in their vicinity, such plants can be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46681	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 18, has been submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 18. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Vladan Jeremic has tabled an amendment to Article 18. The proposal for a law on waste management and the amendment has submitted with the idea that funds collected from the compensation of secondary raw materials, including legal persons and entrepreneurs, are being spent more rationally. In his amendment, he asked that Article 18, paragraph 2, delete the words "information system" that these funds collected in this way, as I said, be used to improve the information system. Of course, we in the SRS don't mind some of these funds being used to improve the information system. Most of these funds go to improve the information system, but I have to say that for some time there can be huge resources. There's more and more waste. However, these funds are variable, sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller, but in any case, when you take one middle, one average, it's a very large asset. Therefore, I believe that some of these funds, which are collected in this way, should be used for other purposes, when it comes to protecting and improving the environment. This member of the law says that the Government prescribes the amount of data management fee, etc. And it's okay. However, in yet another place, it is said that the government is planning how much waste is going to be, etc. Well, I guess it's not the government's goal of producing waste, but the government's goal is that the technology, the factories, function in such a way that it works as little as possible, that it comes down to the least possible, and where luck would be if it wasn't, of course, that the waste doesn't exist at all, and no matter how much resources it was from the transport of the collection of secondary raw materials and other waste systems, it shouldn't be found as the subject of the talks. So I urge the Government to accept this amendment, because it is very large funds that can be used, in addition to what is proposed by law, and for other purposes, when it comes to protecting and improving the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46683	The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and HYDROLOŠKE ACTIVITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Momcilo Duvnjak, Goran Mihajlović, Nikola Savivić, Srboljub Živanovic, Milan M. Nikolic, Milomir Marković, Aleksandar Martinović, Verica Radeta, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazić, as well as amendments to the Committee on Environmental Protection. You have received a report from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on Article 3(2) point 16) so that the words "modification of time" are replaced by the words "modification of atmospheric processes". I thought the word "modification of atmospheric processes" was a more appropriate term, because first of all, the necessary correlation with point 2) of this same member of the law is achieved. I'll remind you of what this point 2) is talking about. In this point 2) you define atmospheric processes as 'qualitative and quantitative changes in the state of the atmosphere. Of course, the mentioned changes should go that way. Let's go back to this amendment of mine, where it will be seen that this change is really necessary. That is why I would like the representatives of the Government and the motionary to consider this amendment and, if they consider it the same, to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46685	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46686	In Article 3 paragraph 1 point 29, "hydrological security is" is replaced by the words "hydrological services represent". Here the Government did not accept this amendment and gave its reasons: 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the term 'hydrological services' is a far narrow term notion of 'hydrological security' which, as stated in this Article of the law, includes, in addition to services provided to users of hydrological data and information, and a whole series of measures, activities and jobs that must be previously carried out in order to provide the data and information to users for further use. ''I think "hydrological services" is a more practical term than "hydrological security." You see, both stylishly and in any way this expression or this word is more acceptable. I believe that "hydrological services" are a set of activities and tasks on the collection, processing, analysis of the forecast and distribution of hydrological data and information on the current and expected state of surface and underground waters of importance for the safety of human life and material goods. Ladies and gentlemen, you know well, here and now, this accident that hit us in the King is very important for these hydrological and meteorological services, not what you say here in your name – security, the word "security" has a different physical meaning, but what I am, in fact, what the SRS wanted to improve with this amendment. The importance of hydrological and meteorological services is very important today in Serbia. It is up to him, so to speak, a large factory under a clear sky called agriculture, and today it is the only salvation for the survival of this country and the survival of its citizens. The only profitable factory that has achieved surplus in its production is agriculture. There is great meaning and great importance, a game of hydrology and meteorology, because based on this data, how citizens, users, people I call labour heroes, are informed of what time they will be, or whether they should hurry, whether or not they should rely on what day to do those jobs. It's of great importance. Here you mention, and there were words, my colleagues were talking, when it came to the law in principle, when it came to anti-urban missiles, that's the biggest thing that was fateful, a diversion was made over agricultural producers. You don't actually know, you laugh, you don't know what it looks like when your effort or your work goes away, when you have nothing from it. You have nothing of him anyway, but at least you're calm in your soul when you reap and you have something to pick, but when God commands or when time does its part, when you have nothing, then you just watch what happens to you. That's the most important thing in this law, where attention must be paid. It's a matter of the Ministry. Is there now the Ministry of Protection, whether for environmental science, whether the Ministry of Agriculture, but there has to be cohesion between the two ministries, so to speak, not happening in Serbia. It's the same ecological disaster that happened, the same thing that happened to the King, it happened to Serbia. Nothing the government has done to improve the situation of those whose crops have been immersed, whose crops have been leveled with the ground, all those who could not collect or anything that they can live from, nothing the state has allowed, nothing has given them, certain subsidies or that it has achieved some benefits in this regard towards the citizens. So I'm telling you one more time, I'm not going to say that I'm asking you, but as the most professional body, and I'm going to end it, you have to understand that through this kind of law you have to help those who depend on each day, which depends on hydrological forecasts and certain regulatory measures, which you are able to inform them of, or that certain things can be adequately protected and that these things don't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46687	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46688	Dear Madam President, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, in this room there are MPs living off their ten fingers, there are breadmakers who do business in agriculture, and we are not in this room some people living on a satellite, space, so some space elevator puts us in an O.R. so we don't know how people live in Serbia and we don't know what kind of peasant pain is, which is also misery when the city kills a year. We know very well what the situation of these disasters was this spring. Of course, the state of Serbia is doing everything in its power to help any man who is in danger, whether by flood, whether by city or any other elemental disaster and disaster. I notice a strange thing. I don't know if any people in this room should be referred to as sir, or Lord, because they say that when they come to power, there will be no earthquakes, no rain, they will manage natural forces. They'll turn the Earth in whatever direction they want. They will determine the direction of the planet's rotation. I understand the desire to like the voters, but whoever is in power in this country, that meteor will fall into the Gredile ravine and it can't be affected. The Earthquake will strike the King, and it cannot be affected. Rain and the city will rain on this land. We may already be able to influence it with anti-urban protection and as much as we can, but some of you who just spoke were in power. During that time, there were earthquakes, floods, droughts and all that was in all the other parts of planet Earth and there was everything that was going on maybe right now in some corner of the world. Don't really take on supernatural powers and supernatural forces to please the voters, because even in the cities where you participate in government, there are also elemental disasters and natural disasters. The Republic of Serbia will certainly take care of every citizen and we need to show compassion with people affected by any elemental disaster. However, our compassion must not be the subject of political marketing. As you know, we don't do that. No one will ever say: We have made that and that in the King. If you've seen those volunteers, and Mr. Ilic has just shown pictures of volunteers, I like it very much that none of the volunteers brought out a party flag, they were all equal there. That's where we all went out to help people, because we need to help people in terms of humanity, not political marketing. You've never heard anyone from the DS say - we've paved this time. This time the Republic of Serbia is paved, and we only use the money properly to pave the way. A time when some boasted that they had paved so many miles, that they had built so many houses, I'm sure it was long after us. I paved the way for the moment when I opened my wallet and paid a hundred meters or a kilometer of asphalt, but until I did, I will say that it was the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens, and we focused that money on those purposes from the budget. We helped the citizens of the Kings when we separated the money as a Parliament club. You've helped as a Parliament club, if you decide to build a house. You helped as a Parliament club when you sent your volunteers and volunteers to work. I commend it, I support it, and I think it's good. If you want, it's no problem for us to agree next week that we all from Parliament go to the King and do one day. We've already given the diaries, as far as I know, and we've given up, not the diaries because we don't get it, but we've given up 5,000 dinars for the sake of damaged families. So, don't really give yourself supernatural powers and powers, because whoever is in power, some natural disasters simply cannot be avoided, but the consequences of these disasters can be tempered in an adequate way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46689	National MP Radisa Ilic. You've got 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46690	I'll speak the language of facts and numbers. The finance minister was supposed to approve only 200 million dinars to buy anti-urban missiles. She didn't approve. The damage was a billion and 500 million dinars. Serbia lacked 8,000 missiles. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46691	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5 of this Law and this amendment is almost identical to the previous amendment that I have explained on the proposal of this law, of course, only to another member, where I have asked this amendment to say "modification of time" again to replace the word "modification of atmospheric processes". I'm going to say briefly why I asked for it. Namely, the processes mentioned here, referring to atmospheric processes, take place continuously, continuously, in time and in space, due to operation, primarily natural, and also some other factors. But not to get any further into this, it's thermodynamics. The techs may even know what this is about, but I'm going back to an explanation why the government rejected this amendment. You, when you do not have another argument to refuse amendments, are then referring to some international conventions, and in this case to some international standards and adopted terms. Of course, I can appreciate that in many cases you have to work like that, but you don't have to stick to it like a drunk float. I am convinced that the term and termology that I have proposed here is very appropriate, that my definition that I have given here and which I have explained in the shortest lines is better and more adequate than the adopted international term. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46693	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46694	I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. This member shall be governed by the jurisdiction of the Republic hydrometerological institution, as well as by the organisation and manner in which the meteorological and hydrological affairs are carried out. This is the following: Article 5 paragraph 1 point 14) adds the word "atmosphere" after the word "state" and the words "time change" are replaced by the words "time change". I would like to explain this briefly – after the word "state" it is necessary to add the word "atmosphere", because in this way complete correlation is achieved with point 24) of Article 3 of this proposal, which defines the state of the atmosphere as a specific component of the natural environment, i.e. as a set of quality values and parameters of the atmosphere at a specified time or time interval. Thus, the term 'time change', which the legislator stated, is not the most adequate, because at first glance you might think it was a change in time, i.e. about time as an independent variable physical size, not about changing weather opportunities and the troubles that are involved. When opportunities and troubles are mentioned, we cannot influence weather and disaster, we cannot order them. We can influence a little bit to prevent their consequences, but we know what can be ordered, and that was ordered 10 years ago -- bombing, and that bombing caused this country 30 billion euros in damage. I'm not gonna mention who ordered the bombing and we were bombed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46695	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46696	Also in Article 16(2), I have submitted an amendment where the word "time" is replaced by the words "time opportunity". Article 16 refers to the early warning system of meteorological and other elemental accidents and meteorological and hydrometeorological surveillance systems in the Republic of Serbia. This member of the amendment reads: "The Institute, through means of public information, competent services for emergency situations and in another convenient way, informs the public, as well as interested bodies and organisations, about the state of time, climate and water. ''The changes made by the legislator are not the most adequate, because in the end it can be thought that it is a change of course of time, i.e. times as independent variables of physical size, not about changing weather opportunities and troubles. The government did not accept for reasons why our Serbian terms do not match the applied terms in the West.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-16-0.u46697	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 18. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 20. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 12.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before I approach the official session's opening session, it's quite unusual to ask, since four MPs are the ruling majority in traffic traffic, so that when I open it will be clear that we have no quorum and there will be delays. You have my personal request for four MPs, whatever you want, just so we can welcome the guests to the gallery, in an hour we'll move. The strangeness of this situation is that there is no business provision that determines the quorum, and the normality of this situation is in a communication that I expected everything else to be just not a mockery, but okay. And it's a matter of style and culture. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I ask the MPs to check their cards, as the electronic system shows less than the MPs in the hall, excluding MPs who do not want to participate in the determination of the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 79 MPs are present in the hall, and 79 MPs are identified by the application of the electronic system, unlike the physical situation when we are in the hall more. Since the electronic system for the determination of quorum determines that at least 84 MPs are not present, pursuant to Article 88(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, session of the National Assembly, will be postponed by one hour. The suggestion of the representatives of the parliamentary clubs is to welcome the guests to the gallery and I can welcome you quite unofficially, since the session does not run because, as you can see, there are no 84 MPs in the hall. I just want to welcome you to your house and to inform everyone who is following this informal part of the session, because there are no 84 MPs in the hall today at the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly of the groups of students "Dusan Vasilev" from Kikinda, and that: Nevena Delić, Strahinja Barvulov, Vladimir Olbin, Ivana Dragin, Anja Romić, Mirjana Mandić, Natasa Zivkov, Ivona Ač, Jovana Gajski, Jelena Laketa, Aleksa Grujić, Jelena Ubiparip, Jasmina Miolski, Vladimir Ško, Goran Gatarić, Filipa Demić, Vladimir Tomirov, Andailo March, No Kondan Pelba, Dragana Mitrović, Nataša Pavrić, Dragamir Litrič, Nežar Žar Žarjanažarjanažar, Mira Krk, Mira Krka Krka Krk, Mir, Mira Krka Krka Krka Krk, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mirjanažina Poš, Mir, Mirna Poš, Mirna Paš Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mirna P. I welcome you to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and a pleasant stay in this building, with regrets that you cannot attend and work part of the session, since, as you can see, there are more than 84 MPs, but not enough to determine this by electronic system. We'll continue the session at 13 o'clock and 15 minutes. Thank you.
