ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48674	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session of the Assembly takes place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues within the scope of the rights and duties of these officials, and on the authority of the authorities on which they are headed and which it needs to exercise the functions of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, as it stands in the position of the 2nd same member, the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right of the position of the 1st member at a session of the National Assembly orally in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of political groups would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Please sign in to the electronic system if anyone wishes to exercise their right under Article 286. National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48675	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unfortunately these questions are absolutely farce, because there is no answer. I warn you that one day you will have to answer all the questions and you will have to bear the guilt that things are not happening in the way that they should happen when it comes to crime and corruption in our society. You're in a hurry to Europe, not Europe, not thieves in your ranks. You could best see that by the case of the former prime minister of Croatia. They've got their thieves, what you're gonna do to them. You have to deal with your thieves here first, and then you can possibly count on getting the green light for Europe. I would like to repeat, and to warn you, that the indisputable data collected by Tihomir Zivanovic and notified by all the heads of the parliamentary groups and other institutions in the state speak of the establishment of Moby 63, its sale and everything related to it seems to be an extremely large crime. It's a good thing, Mrs. Kolundjia, that you're interested in that information. I think we could work something out with the Joint Forces. You see now how this ball is unwrapped with the company "News", "Luko Belgrade" and so on. Although it was initially claimed that it was all purely done under the law, it was proven to be a huge crime and it seems that they are slowly beginning to collect pinkles because they want to flee the country, but to pick up what they stole. Among other things, you had a chance to see that show with Stanko Subotic Canet, where he openly, loudly and loudly spoke up who he was blackmailing, who he was giving money to, whom he bribed, etc. To return to Mobi 63, to remind the public, and to remind you, there is still no answer from either the Prosecutor's Office, nor from the MUP - what about 121,950,000 euros, related to the roles the state and this Austrian owner of Schlaf, when Moby 63 was founded. I told you there's no such contribution in the Business Registers Agency, no court, but that's impossible, my people. This has to be investigated to the end. Again, I warn the prosecution not to work only when Boris Tadic raises a question, that he will remain silent for ten years, and when he mentions Boris Tadic, then some things are moving. I'm asking the D.A. and the D.A. to investigate everything and bring those responsible for this crime to justice. Also, I remind the public, I remind you that I didn't get an answer from the NBS about selling Moby 63 to Telenor. It's a 198,000 difference. I asked a simple question – what account and how much was paid and who was paid everything from that account? I don't know what to do to get such a simple answer. It's 198.000,000. If you take these 121, it's already 320 million, or money that's simply unimaginable for this country, that's how they can be outsmarted. To ask another question to round up this problem that exists regarding Moby 63, its sale and all the stores around the Holdenhurst firm, which is one of the founders of Moby 63. At the payoff of Holdenhurst, primarily for a price of 375 million, Holdenhurst was returned to 96 million allegedly deposited when he set up Moby 63. Now I ask the Ministry of Finance to give us proof that a 96 million deposit has really been deposited and ask them to tell us what account and when it was deposited 96 million. If you add up all these numbers, you get to over 400 and a few million euros, related only to Moby 63. Now you're getting ready to sell "Telenor," and that's the same people that are... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48676	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48677	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Health. A few days ago news was released that the hospital lacks gauze and other sanity material. There have been several patients and a surgeon locked up in a surgical block demanding surgery. At the same time, gas shortages also appeared at the Valjevo Health Centre and other health centres in Serbia. Yesterday on the daily "Politics" page, there was a disturbing news: "Are we facing a shortage of medications? "The main problem that goes through the entire text is debt between the Republic Health Insurance Service, the manufacturer and the supplier. At the same time, the threatened stability of the income of the Republic Health Insurance Institute is mentioned. According to those responsible at the Republic Health Insurance Institute, stability was higher in 2009 than in this year 2010. Stability is at risk of an increase in unemployment rates. My question is: What will the competent authorities do to stabilise the drug market and the sanity material? What will the competent authorities do to stabilise the income of the Republic Health Insurance Institute in 2011? On the other hand, we recently had news that we would have to destroy a large amount of vaccines, which ran out of importance, which we paid dearly. Since we in the state don't own equipment and institutions dealing with the destruction of dangerous medical waste, we're going to have to allocate additional means of destruction, as well as transport. How is it possible that there is a surplus vaccine in one country at the same time, and there is a lack of drugs and sanity material? Is there an effective planning and drug use with us? Do we correctly set priorities in supplying the necessary materials? Are we monitoring health costs? I ask that these questions be answered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48678	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on 2 December 2010, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia's SNS, I asked a parliamentary question and sent it to the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government Mr Milan Markovic and the Minister of the Interior, Ivica Dacic, as well as against statements by the head of the Presevo municipality. On November 28th, this year, under the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, a flag day was marked in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. On that occasion, Deputy President of Presevo Orhan Rexhepi said, "I responsibly declare that we will celebrate this most recent day, our biggest holiday, in this same Presevo, as part of Albania's future." This statement was transmitted by some, unfortunately not all, televisions with national frequencies in prime time, which can be checked. I have not received a reply from the interior minister, Comrade Ivica Dacic, but that is why I have received the answer from the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government of Mr Milan Markovic, and I cannot really be satisfied with that answer. The answer is: "In light of the events in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja on 28 November 2010, which was referred to by MP Zoran Babic, the competent authorities of the state administration, as well as other state authorities, will act in accordance with their legal powers, i.e. the undertaking of the measures in its work, in accordance with the law." Is this the response of the serious state to the separatist statements and announcements of the head of Presevo municipality? I don't think so. This is a waste of time, this answer is the fulfillment of form and, unfortunately, the blurring of reality. Is it possible that by not answering Mr. Ivica Dacic's very soft response to Minister Milan Markovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia may be sending a message that it agrees with the statement by the deputy president of the Presevo Municipality of Orhan Rexhepi? My question is referred to both then and now: what and when, in particular, the state authorities responsible for preserving the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia will do about such a separatist, anti-state and anti-constitutional statement by Orhan Rexhepi, deputy president of Presevo municipality? The answer that I, and I believe all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, could slow down, must be: the competent state authorities, state administrations, as well as other state authorities, have acted in accordance with the legal powers and prosecuted Organ Rexhepi, not that anything has been done, and I doubt anything will be done. I would like the barbecue Mr Milan Markovic shows in replicas with us, opposition MPs, also to pass on to the field of preserving the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48680	Does any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward to take advantage of their rights under Article 286(2)? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, to attend and Periša Simonovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Gordana Lodjan, senior adviser at the Ministry of Health. We're continuing our work. We move to a common principle search of the 2-4rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Health Protection Law, Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Health Workers' Chambers and Proposal for a Law on Psychoactive Control Substantial Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on proposals for the law of the agenda under points 2, 3 and 4 and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Embassy group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Nikola Krpic, MP Zlata Djeric, MP for the New Serbia Parliament; MP Zoran Bortic, MP for the SPS - JS, MP for Mileta Poscurica, MP for Serbia, MP Milan Dimitrijevic for the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP for Parliament Simo Vukovic for the G17 Plus and MP for Parliament Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic for the SRS parliamentary group. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to give authority to a national MP, please provide us with information so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Chambers of Health Workers and the Proposal for a Law on psychoactive controlled substances Does the Proposer's representative, Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health want to speak? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48681	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, firstly I would like to tell you a few words about the law on psychoactive controlled substances, which is an important regulation, because the strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the fight against drugs has been adopted for the period 2009-2013, on the basis of which the Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy has been adopted, is in line with international activities that are serious in countering the illegal use of psychoactive substances and, in line with the strategy, the need to improve the control, production and transport of intoxicating substances in legal pharmaceutical and chemical institutions, control of the use of opiates and drugs containing intoxic drugs in health institutions, as well as the need to comply with the rules of supervision in the Republic of Serbia with the surveillance methodology in the EU countries today. In that sense, the Ministry of Health, along with many partners in a broad advisory framework with other ministries, with NGOs, proposed a bill on psychoactive controlled substances. This termology also includes intoxicating drugs, i.e. narcotics and psychotropic substances in accordance with modern, professional and scientific knowledge. One of the main objectives for the adoption of this law is to establish a balance between adequate control and control of the abuse of psychoactive controlled substances, in order to ensure the availability of these substances in medical, veterinary and scientific research purposes, all in accordance with well-known UN conventions, recommendations by the World Health Organization and other international organisations in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, i.e. precursors. We continue to successfully implement and implement the UN Convention in the area of the production and transport of intoxicating drugs and the participation of the Republic of Serbia in international community activities in the fight against the abuse of intoxicating drugs, i.e. more accurately psychoactive controlled substances. The establishment and definition of a list of these substances shall provide a legal framework for the administration of the system and its control, production, transport and application and these lists shall be established in full compliance with UN conventions. I'd just like to count the most important objectives of this law. It is certainly in the first place the system of regulating the areas of psychoactive controlled substances, i.e. the implementation of controls and production, transport and application, and then, the implementation of international obligations arising from the UN Convention and confirmed agreements in this area, the definition of areas, compliance with existing EU regulations and legal provisions of the Aki communivers, compliance with the recommendations of the World Trade Organisation, registration of exporters, importers, intermediaries involved in trade, recording of produced quantities, recording of psychoactive substances exported, imported or transited, recording of these substances placed on the internal market, making it easier for legal persons carrying out scientific and research activities, recording applied for treatment purposes in health institutions, making it easier for healthcare institutions to be made available for therapeutic purposes, or interventions for treatment purposes, and interventions for medical purposes. The adoption of this law is the result of the need for international harmonisation of regulations that include the obligation to comply with EU strategic plans on drugs and the Action Plan and recommendations of the Council of Europe, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Dependence, as well as the request of competent bodies and UN institutions. When we talk about the additions of the Law on the chambers of health workers, I would say that in the last few years of the chamber of health workers, I would remind you that we have regulated this area by law by forming independent autonomous professional institutions in the health system of Serbia, medical chambers, pharmaceuticals, dentists, biochemistry and chambers of nurses and technicians, changes and addition of this law is a technical supplement imposed on life and practice. With these additions to the law, we allow one serious problem that can arise in the functioning of the chamber and which, unfortunately, occurred in Serbia in the operation of one of the five chambers – dentistry. These members are told as soon as possible – the President of the Chamber Assembly is required to hold elections for members of the new assembly within a period of 90 days before the end of the term of office, to elect the authorities to be held within 15 days of the day of the establishment of the Chamber Assembly, and to elect the president and members of the Ethics Committee within 90 days of the establishment of the Chamber Assembly. If, for some reasons, no new chamber assembly is established by the end of the term of office, these amendments to the law provide for a bypass mechanism, if I may so call it, that the Minister responsible for health affairs within 15 days of the end of the term of office of members of the Assembly of the Chamber on the proposal of the Serbian Medical Society and the existing associations of health workers is appointed by the Board of Elections for members of the Chamber Assembly, i.e. the establishment of the Chamber Assembly. This committee, as otherwise provided for in the establishment of chambers after the adoption of the law in 2005, has 11 members, takes the decision to call and conduct the elections. It is a very important, practical and technical addition to the law that allows it to come out of the problem, which is regulated legally, if the current selection of the chamber assembly, any, is unable to ensure the continuity of the chamber’s work. The health ministry was forced to withdraw public authority from the dental chamber and license for 120 days under the law. This addition of the law legally regulates a practical life problem. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, in the shortest case, it is also a practical technique to regulate the costs of passing a professional exam, assigning the title of the primarius, technical matters related to the official suit of inspectors, something dictated by the Budget Law and recommended that amendments and additions of the Law be regulated in a legal manner by these questions which at one point seemed technical. The stance of the legislation is that, instead of the sublegal act, this area is regulated, that it is precisely by law, and that is why we have proposed this amendment. The second amendment refers to a significant move made by the Health Protection Act in 2005, which provides for the decentralisation of the health system in a way that the primary health care is established by municipalities and the city and that decentralisation has been implemented literally and consistently in the vast majority of health institutions. The deadline was December 2010 for everyone. Of 300 health institutions, in a dozen places, with different reasons, of which the largest number has been focused on the deterioration of the economic and financial situation both globally and nationally, we propose that this deadline be extended legally for another three years and that practically in the next three years this process be implemented consistently. I hope I didn't put too much pressure on you with this opening exposure. It is very important that in 2010 we conclude the adoption of the law on psychoactive controlled substances and to support these amendments and addition proposals and the Law on Chambers and Health Protection at the level of the task and to provide for the resolution of practical new problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48682	Does the rapporteur of the Health Committee, MP Simo Vukovic, deputy president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that we are moving to the course of the session when the right to receive the word is given by the presidents, or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups from the smallest to the greatest. National MP Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48683	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, these three laws I'm going to speak about in front of the United Pension Party's parliamentary group, I've kind of covered, so I'm going to, in order to put them on the agenda, and I'm going to talk about it. Although adopted here in the Serbian Parliament on Health Protection on 28 November 2005, whose change is on two occasions under the law, i.e. Regulations postponed until the end of 2010, to do this job, in the part of the takeover of founding rights over health institutions, when applied in the field of primary health care, in Articles 94 and 100. The Health Protection Act, which discusses the organisation of health activities at the primary level, clearly states that the municipalities, i.e. cities, are the founders of these institutions, with precisely prescribed rights and obligations. In many towns around Serbia where health centres exist, this has not been done. Today we have before the MPs a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. The esteemed chairman, such a bill, even though it lasted for five years, could not be implemented for several objective reasons and it is good that the Ministry of Health and the Government of Serbia reacted with this bill and the prolonging of the obligation to end by the end of 2013. If it is known that the budget of the Republic of Serbia has already been made, elaborated and agreed with the IMF, several problematic issues have arisen before the final adoption in our parliament. First of all, why haven't the finances been made? Missing resources for work that will be established by local self-government as a health founder. City budgets for 2011 are in preparation and according to the implementation of the annual budget, it is difficult to assume that local self-government in many Serbian cities cannot raise these missing funds for normal staff work. Secondly, if we add to this financial problem a lack of personnel, housing and business space, then a partial balance that needs to be done, other brighter problems arise. We are coming to the fact that the Ministry has also today proposed that we adopt this bill by extending the deadline. The PUPS parliamentary group will certainly vote for this good bill in the voting day. Why? For the purposes of Article 97(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Constitution of our Republic writes nicely that the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Health, regulates and provides a system in the field of health care for its population. Then it is also perfectly normal for this law to regulate fees for professional training of health workers and associates for obtaining professional names of the primarius and others and to comply with new regulations in relation to the budget that is ahead of us. The PUPS will also vote for this change, or change, because it is absolutely logical. Finally, such health conditions with such a proposal for changes by 2013 promise to contribute to better health protection for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in better financial opportunities. That is the motive for PUPS MPs to vote on this bill in a voting day because implementing this law does not require additional funding. Now I'm gonna stay around the health system chambers. I'm going to the second item of the agenda. Here we also have a constitutional basis that provides a system in the field of health. The "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 107/05 explains the reason for the adoption of the Law on the chambers of health workers. This must therefore lead to a basic postulate for the continued operation of the chambers of health workers through the prescribed electoral procedures for the authorities of the chamber in accordance with the legal frameworks. The Founder, which is the Ministry of Health, must allow for the smooth performance of all entrusted tasks, as well as other chambers' affairs prescribed only by law. The health ministry must provide the chamber with a legal position in the system and the chamber with an election procedure for all members of the chamber in accordance with the law and is responsible for the Ministry of Health and the Minister himself. The President-in-Office, the PUPS will vote in favour of this bill in the day of voting, especially since the law does not require additional funding. Now I'd like to say something more about the 3rd item of the agenda, the bill on psychoactive controlled substances. The proposal for a law on psychoactive controlled substances regulates conditions for the transport and production of psychoactive controlled substances, conditions for cultivation, processing and transport of plants from which psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained, conditions and procedures for the authorisation of cultivation, both from imports and from the export and transit of plants from which psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained for healthcare professionals, for health care, but also for what we call criminal proceedings. Procedure for the implementation of identification, testing of psychoactive controlled substances, the use of psychoactive controlled substances in the context of health performance in the implementation of health care measures, surveillance in the field of psychoactive controlled substances to prevent their illicit use and other criminal issues of relevance to this area for the protection of life and human health. The name of a psychoactive controlled substance is a term that, in accordance with modern expertise and scientific knowledge, includes intoxicating drugs or narcotics, psychotropic substances and all other substances that cause addiction. The determination of psychoactive controlled substances, as well as the definition of a list of psychoactive controlled substances, provides a legal basis for the management of the system, their control, production, transport and application, which is also the duty of the Ministry of Health. The constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law is contained in the provision of Article 97(10). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Health, among other things, regulates and provides for a system in the field of health, as well as organisation, competence and work of the republican authorities. They're doing it in this law and they're making a proposal for this law. The Republic of Serbia is as a UN member and signatories of UN, different conventions and international agreements in the fields of intoxicating drugs, psychoactive substances and others. What are these substances? Well, you know, cocaine, hashish, LSD pills, marijuana, heroin, amphetamines, etc. In view of the need to harmonise the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules, the obligation to comply with the EU drug strategy and the EU action plan to implement the strategy and recommendations of the Council of Europe, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs Depending on Drugs, the requirements of the UN institutions' competent bodies, as well as the urgent application of the provisions of this law, the Ministry of Health and the Government propose to the Assembly the adoption of a draft law on psychoactive controlled substances under emergency procedure. PUPS MPs will vote in favour of the proposal for this valuable and good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48684	Eight minutes and 45 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The LDP's authorised representative is National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48685	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, we have a set of laws on health care, but also a set of laws that have some heterogeneous content in themselves, so before I begin my presentation, I would like to ask myself a question a thousand times in this House – what is the logic of joining the dots? It is understandable that ratifications of certain conventions and similar approaches in the legislative process of the National Assembly are brought together to a common point, but I am asking the question – where is the logic of the merger at a common point of debate on laws that are in itself different? In my 20 minutes, as far as I have as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I need to set up a debate on how to become a primarius and how to control someone who produces psychoactive substances. You have to admit that between those two stories there aren't too many touch points, and you have to put it in one discussion, in one exhibition that should be a criticism of these laws. Before I remain at the amendments to the Health Protection Act, I would like to make a few general remarks concerning the government's procedures and the government's relations with the proposal and application of the law. We have too often amendments and additions to the law. What about the new laws and what about the application of those who already exist? We had an example in the previous assembly of the National Assembly that we were changing the CAP, which has already been put out of force by putting off some of the provisions of the CAP that are already in force. Such galamatias apply legal rules, or such a galamaticia of law enforcement is inconceivable, does not stand in textbooks that are read and used in law schools. In the state of Serbia, it is possible. Now we have some sort of approach to approach a particular problem of something called changing and supplementing the law. Do we need this or may be more correct, perhaps too much to approach a complete change in certain laws that time has run over or time has shown that they are inapplicable? We asked a question last time when we had representatives of the Ministry of Health here in the Assembly – when will the law regulate pharmaceutical activity, when will it be regulated by a special law? Our questions got some answers, but no answers. Now again, we have amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act which are firstly cosmetical, but in fact they are essential, and then we ask the question – why are such fundamental changes in changes and additions, and we ask the question – who is responsible for the adoption of norms and their non-application and inability to apply in the previous time, i.e. the norms contained in the previous law, i.e. the current applicable law that we are changing? I've got a series of objections, but I'm going to stay in particular on Article 5. The health care law, which says in Article 266 "five years" is replaced by the words "eight years". It is about restoring competence to local self-government over health homes and these forms of health protection. It is given in the reasons of Article 5 that the five-year period for the acquisition of the founding rights to health homes by local self-government is extended to eight years from the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. the health centre, as a type of health care institution in which health homes are composed, the general hospital may continue to work until the end of 2013 due to the complexity of the procedure for the separation of health homes and general hospitals and health centres, i.e. the establishment of fundamental rights over health homes by the competent authorities. Of the 22 health centres on central Serbia's territory, which carry out formal-legal action - the separation procedure at only two health centres, 18 health centres are at different stages of this process, while two health centres are at the beginning of the separation process. Why is that? What prevented them from making adequate changes within five years, as provided for by the applicable law, and from being placed under the authority of local self-government? If there were objective obstacles, who is responsible for this, or who is responsible for the possibility, order, imperative-legal norm required to complete this procedure within five years? In its explanation, it says - the assessment of the financial resources needed to implement this law - is not necessary to provide additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, as well as for 2011. I don't get it now. If all this money isn't needed, why isn't this procedure done? Local self - administrations obviously had problems they couldn't solve, so the procedure didn't take place. It is now said that no additional funding is needed. Then what was the problem? Why isn't this job done in five years, but now it's extended to eight years? It is said that the reasons for the passing of laws by emergency procedure are that the urgent application of the provisions of this law, i.e. the creation of a legal basis for the continuation of the work of health centres as special types of health institutions, as well as the removal of the adverse consequences that could occur under the healthcare system, is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. If anomalies have been observed, why emergency procedures? Why is it that during the period of time, the determination and location of these anomalies are not done to adapt legislation in a normal procedure, but to wait for the deadline and now to require an emergency procedure to do something to stretch between five and eight years? This is the tip of the iceberg now. We have a lot of questions. In the final word and during the debate on laws, we will also ask these questions, but the general question is – where is the responsibility and was it necessary to do so in this way? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48686	Seven minutes and 20 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48687	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which has been submitted to the National Assembly, aims to harmonise the provisions of the existing law governing fees for passing professional examinations of healthcare professionals and health associates for obtaining the name of the primaryis and to carry out the inspection procedure at the request of the party with new rules of the budgetary system. These changes will create conditions for the continuation of the work of those health centres, which are prescribed by the existing Health Protection Act for the procedure for the separation of home health from the general hospital. In other words, conditions will be created for the acquisition of founding rights by local self-government over the home of health and the Republic of the general hospital. In other words, the legislative changes offered provide for the legality of work and the last health centres and the legality of financial flows for the operation of health centres, based on the conclusion of a health care contract for insured persons with the Republic Health Insurance Office. The amendments to this law also provide conditions for the achievement of available health protection for citizens from the area in which the health centre is established. Finally, amendments to the Health Protection Act create conditions for the health center as a type of health institution, consisting of a home of health, to continue its work for another three years, i.e. until 2013. This transitional period is particularly important if the complex working conditions and organisation of certain health centres are taken into account, which have not yet ended the separation process due to the geographical discretion and financial opportunities of local self-government as founders. In order to create a legal basis for continuing the work of health centres, as specific types of health care institutions and to avoid the adverse consequences that could occur in the health care system, changes and additions of the Health Protection Act are proposed for adoption by emergency procedure. Dear People's MPs, the bill on the chambers of health workers creates normative conditions for the continued operation of the chambers of health workers by prescribing the electoral procedure for the authorities of the chamber, which allows for the smooth performance of the tasks entrusted to the chambers, as well as other matters prescribed by law. Supplements to the legal text create conditions for the protection of professional interests of members of the chamber, as well as for the protection of the interests of patients through the provision of continuity in the performance of the tasks and tasks set out in the law. The legality of the work and business of the chamber is regulated, i.e. the adoption of acts of the chamber in accordance with its Statute and with the law. In addition, these additions to the existing law balance the work of chambers, i.e. the electoral procedure in chambers. This provides the same legal position for all chamber members established in accordance with the law in order to create a legal basis for the implementation of the electoral procedure for members of the chamber assembly and other chamber bodies and possible adverse consequences under the health care system and the draft law supplementing the health care workers’ chambers law was sent to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption under emergency procedure. Dear fellow MPs, one of the greatest diseases of modern humanity is drug abuse or addiction. This disease is so much more devastating that it affects the most young generations and thus destroys the biological survival of every nation. Narcomania destroys all pillars of society on which modern civilization, family, education system, state institutions, and the state itself rests. That is why it is right to say that, with terrorism and global environmental crisis, this is mankind's greatest enemy. As a result, it is no wonder that all modern states and all nations, including the Republic of Serbia as a member of the UN, have been caught and ratified by a number of conventions and international agreements in the field of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances and other areas that regulate the obligations of the Member States in the UN on this matter. Among such documents, the signatories and our country are the unique 1961 Convention on Intoxicating Drugs, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the 1988 Convention against the Illegal Traffic of Intoxication Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. All these conventions have been ratified by our country and those, in addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are the legal basis for the adoption of laws on psychoactive controlled substances. It should be recalled that the Republic of Serbia is in continuity, especially over the last two years very intensively engaged in preventing the illegal spread of intoxicating drugs and other psychotropic substances, not only on our country's territory, but also in cutting apart organised and international criminal chains and groups that spread these funds on a planetary scale. In this regard, it is especially necessary to highlight the contribution of the Serbian Ministry of Interior, led by Minister Dacic, who in several joint actions with other countries' security forces during the past and this year cut off international crime chains for drug trafficking. Just to remind you that during the 11 months of 2008, 1,648,820 grams of different drugs, including heroin, cocaine, marijuana, hashish, as well as ecstasy tablets, LSD and others, were seized in these actions. All these actions by the police and other competent state authorities that are not negligible, yet even to this day they have not been able to root out drug disease and spread various intoxicating drugs to our children and underground channels. That is why it is necessary in a comprehensive way to regulate the use and spread of psychoactive substances in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the proposal for this law, which is more than necessary in the procedure, regulates the conditions for the production and transport of psychoactive controlled substances, the conditions for growing, processing and transport of plants from which these substances can be obtained, as well as the conditions and procedure for issuing authorisations for cultivation, export, import and transit of plants from which psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained. The proposed law regulates the procedure for the implementation and identification of the study of psychoactive controlled substances, their application in the implementation of health care measures and supervision of these substances in order to prevent their illicit use. It should be pointed out that the proposed law normably regulates other issues for this area in order to protect people's lives and health. It is important to point out that the aim of this legislative proposal is to establish a balance between active control and the prevention of the abuse of psychoactive control substances in order to ensure their availability in medical, veterinary and scientific research purposes and to comply with the abovementioned UN conventions, recommendations from the World Health Organization and other organisations, and in particular with the recommendations and directives of the EU, whose standards establish mandatory behaviour for the protection of human life and health, from the abuse of the substances mentioned. Starting with the need to bring our regulations into line with EU regulations and to improve the co-operation of our services with the relevant EU services in this area, the bill sets out the forms and methods of co-operation of the authorities of our national administration for the relevant EU institutions, which are responsible for the control of intoxicating drugs, or psychoactive controlled substances. This law balances the monitoring methodology of these substances and in general in the area of the Republic of Serbia with the methodology in force in EU countries. The law accurately regulates the conditions, procedures and obligations of legal, or natural persons relating to the production, transport and possession of mentioned substances. The law regulates the affairs of authorised laboratories, exports, imports, transit, cultivation and processing, the transport of plants from which these substances can be obtained, such as their exports and imports and transit. In order to achieve legal certainty in this area, the law also regulates the scope of the obligations of legal and natural persons, professional and scientific research organisations, health institutions and other forms of health services, as well as the powers of other legal persons whose work is subject to the control of the application of this law. Finally, it should be pointed out that by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will systematically regulate the area of psychoactive controlled substances, from their production, to transport and application. At the same time, this area will normably comply with the standards set out in UN conventions, EU recommendations and World Health Organisations. These substances that have been exported, imported or transited through our country, as well as those placed on the internal market, will be recorded. This law will facilitate the availability of these substances to legal persons performing scientific and research activities and recording their application during treatment in healthcare institutions and other forms of healthcare. In that sense, the health care facility will have easier availability for these substances for their application for therapeutic purposes, for the treatment of disease addiction. The organisation of reference health institutions for this area will also be provided. Dear fellow Members of the People, the law on psychoactive and controlled substances will create normative assumptions for the much better performance of the affairs of the state administration in the field of psychoactive controlled substances and many other issues of importance, not only for the control of this area, but also for the anti-drug and other disease addictions which, as I have already said, are one of the greatest monsters of the modern world.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48688	Twelve minutes and 45 seconds have been used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to the MP Zlata Djeric, a reminder for members of the Traffic Committee that the session has begun or will begin at 11.00 hours in Hall 1 at the House of the National Assembly, so please all members of the Traffic Committee attend the Committee's session. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48689	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the President-in-Office, Mr Secretary-General, today we have three laws in the field of health, namely the draft law supplementing the Law on the Chambers of Health Workers, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Law on Psychoactive Substances. I won't talk much about these three acts offered before us, I'm just going to briefly touch the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. It's something to comply with budget regulations. It would have been much better if the minister had given us more convincingly, explaining to us how relaxing the budget is in the event of these changes being implemented and complemented because it is an excuse for these changes and additions. I really don't see why that or why it's unclear is why it hasn't been done before. We very often change, or bring amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, so I fear that this can cause confusion in law enforcement and serious interference with those who enforce the law. My colleague Aleksandra Jankovic, as an expert, will speak in that part of the debate, and I will just say a brief word about how we see these additions to the Law on Medical Chambers. Respecting that the Medical Chamber in Serbia was founded a hundred years ago, that it was a respectable Serbian institution at one European level, a professional institution that expressed some resistance to these supplements, and I think the director of Tatjana Radosavljevic made it very clear that by amending the law, the minister is trying to make direct intervention of the health ministry in the election process in chambers, and the chambers must remain independent. She says further -- the minister takes these changes as the right to appoint initial committees to conduct the elections in the chamber and thus introduces control and violates the principle of independence of the chamber as an institution. Serbia's medical chamber sees this as a direct blow to independence. We will use all available legal means to preserve the independence of our work. In the reasons, i.e. the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said that – creating conditions for the continued operation of the chamber of health workers, by prescribing the electoral procedure for the authorities of the chamber, which enables the uninterrupted performance of both entrusted transactions and other tasks of the chamber prescribed by law, creating conditions for the protection of professional interests of the members of the chamber, as well as the protection of the interests of patients by providing continuity in the performance of the affairs and tasks laid down by law. I think that the members of the chamber are all high professionals really directly interested in their profession, in their profession, in the ethics of their work, and that perhaps this type of pressure, regardless of what the minister said that there was a problem in one chamber, that it was something, as he said, complemented by life and practice and bypass mechanism. The third explanation is the creation of conditions for the legality of the work and business of the chamber, i.e. the adoption of acts of the chamber in accordance with the law and statute of the chamber. I think they've done the law and the statutes so far. What life and practice often show, they are very charming. This law provides exactly as the Director of the Medical Chamber claims, that the minister is directly involved, i.e. the Ministry, in the work of the Medical Chamber, because here in addition, it does not indicate that it refers only to this one medical chamber that has many reasons and I think that it should be dealt with in the ministry much more with the reasons before this consequence that then has forced this legislative change of solution and that it would then not be extorted from such a supplement, not a change, but from the addition of the law and such a blow to one of the oldest professional institutions in Serbia, which we can really say is very respectable, very respected in some world image. So that's what we have as a grudge to this law. I'm really interested, since this is where the ministry is supposed to intervene, but nowhere is expected – what if that doesn't result? What if there's a boycott? You can't force anyone to be a member of the chamber assembly. It's not meant for this supplement. Then we'll have some bypass going on again and we'll have more life and practice. I don't think laws are too often to be complemented by life and practice because life and practice constantly impose individual solutions. Life and practice require that they be subject to laws to create general principles in which there will always be individual examples of jumping, but then it is easier to lead a society, especially a sensitive society such as this sensitive system of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48690	Six minutes of the mandated representatives of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48691	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a debate on two amendments and additions, and these are the Law on Health Protection and the Law on the Chambers of Health Professionals and a bill on psychoactive controlled substances. Of course, this third law deserves to be found on the agenda, given the fact that we haven't had enough valid laws in the past regarding this area. This latest law dates back to 1973 and it reads – the Law on the ratification of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. It is certainly good that the area is harmonised and regulated with international standards. All three points of the agenda deserve extensive debate, not to be united in a single debate. The rules of procedure brought by the ruling coalition do not allow that. Too bad it is, I think the subject is very important and touches every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, as well as the public of your presentation in the debate when the Law on Health Care, the Health Insurance Act and the Law on Medical, Dental and Pharmaceutical Chambers. So that was kind of at this time five years ago in 2005. Law jobs: everyone in Serbia will be health insurance, people below the social minimum will not only have a health book without being able to get what they need, but will not have to pay any participation for the services they receive. When you spoke of donations and assistance to Serbia's health system, you said – a few days ago the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic was visiting Belgrade and visited, along with the Minister of Health, the Clinical and Hospital Centre "Dragisa Misovic" because the citizens of the Czech Republic gave two and a half million euros to the citizens of Serbia for the opening of Dragisa Misovic Hospital and will help more. Does this hospital work at full capacity these days? Not according to my knowledge. You mentioned then and the chambers – professionals will have a chamber that their colleagues have not so far from here, 200-300 kilometers away, wherever you go west, north, east, south, you will find chambers. We'll have them in Serbia in 2006. We still have all the chambers today. What's going on with the dental chamber? I've presented several of your thoughts regarding health reform, the health system of 2005. It would be good to see how things are at the end of 2010. Let's start in a row, start with the revenue that's being made based on the contribution to health insurance. According to data from the Republic Health Insurance Institute, 84 billion unpaid contributions were made in 2009. These figures talk about the drop in employment: August 2008 2.1 million employees, and October 2010 1.8 million employees. Non-payment by the Republic of Serbia's budget for non-income persons, growth in the course and price of medicines, energy, medical material, all this speaks of the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia that is devastating. And you were talking, both you and the Prime Minister, about the Socially Responsible Government. What is the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Institute in 2010, if 84 billion unpaid contributions were made in 2009. Speaking of the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, it's time to comment on the work on our national health account. And here's the thing. The National Health Account is a framework for the analysis of the health system and should answer the following questions: What are the total expenditures for health care in changing the structure of expenditure? Growth cost control, and ultimately it is a tool to monitor the impact of health reform. That's where our country had the support. On the website of the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut" it can be seen that the work on the development of the National Health Account began at the end of 2004, but whoever followed the donations can find information that the purpose of the state was granted a donation in 2002, the agreement of 18 May 2002, amounting to 297.454,80 euros. And who do you trust now? What happened between 2002 and 2004 with this grant aid for the National Health Account. Do we have it today? No, I don't. For what? How much health spending is compared to gross social product: 6% as the RZZO says, 8.2% as the Ministry or 11% as the World Bank sources say. All MPs received an EU questionnaire. On page 353, issue 39 reads how much your current health costs are expressed as a percentage of gross social product in absolute terms, in euro, and how they are structured, including amounts spent in the public and private sector, and amounts spent to prevent or promote health. How will you answer that question, Mr. Minister? According to RZO data, according to your data or data, how did the World Bank find it? How are you going to answer question number 41 on page 354 – do you apply the OCD manual of the health account system? If the answer is negative, when do you plan it? These are just two issues that raise concerns, and there are more. As it is obvious that the National Health Account is an illusion and fiction in us, it is not possible because of the systemic error of Serbian health, which is the non-integrity of the private sector in the system, which is 3.5% of the gross social product. And that's obvious since 2002. Simulation of the production of the National Health Account takes eight years, with direct and indirect costs. This mystification hides the lack of reforms of the RZZO and the health financing system. This prevents control of money flows in health care, monitoring of cost trends, real location of resources, efficient planning, setting priorities, this illusion promotes systemic corruption in health care. Now we come to the subject of what our public is talking about. There's no media, either printed or electronic, that didn't pay much attention to this subject. While some institutions deny themselves in the most drastic way and violate fundamental rights, what is the right to timely treatment of the Institute of Oncology in Kamenica, the competent institutions remain silent. When the public reacts bitterly, then the protection of citizens' rights and confirms the whole story, while republican and regional institutions remain silent. There is an affair with cytostatics, the whole profession is on a pillar of shame because of such individuals and the inaction of competent institutions. Instead of effective measures, the Ministry of Health is positing with the Minister of Police on leaks of information. An even bigger problem is the implementation of a whole series of projects, and a document on the International Aid Assessment of Serbia's Health System has been created. The EU has hired independent experts, Ekos Group, to analyse the spending of European taxpayers' money. It is likely that the document would not have seen the light of day, as well as the reform of the judiciary, had the non-governmental sector not responded. What does this document contain? Whether there are serious objections in the report, whether individual projects, which are poorly conceived or poorly implemented by domestic partners, are falsely portrayed as successful. That's what the public needs to know. Why is this document kept secret? What is wanted by hiding this document? Is the damage done to the state and has Serbia been discredited in the eyes of donors? Whether future EU-funded projects, whose realisation and control are completely transitioning to the RS government in 2011 and 2012. I mentioned some projects earlier as donations from 2002 to produce a national health account, but there are others, at some point I'll count them. So in 2002, reform and improvement of the transfusiological service of 5.5m euros. Projects related to the development of a health information system of 6.2m euros, 2003 and 2004. A public health support project in 2002 and 2003, strengthening the health ministry's capacity to implement a threem-euro health reform, and this includes preparing for the implementation of a 50m-euro European Investment Bank loan for the reconstruction of 20 plus one hospital in Serbia, as well as a 200m-euro loan for the reconstruction of Serbia's clinical and hospital centres. Furthermore, in 2004, the development of preventive health services, the formation of 25 preventive centres in primary health care, 3.8m euros. What's he doing today? A project for the establishment of the Agency for Medical Resources, instead of being employed, and another 34 experts are needed, has been fired 70. The Tolak Institute has several projects, and the vaccine is gone and what is the fate of the Tolak Institute today? Instead of dealing with and solving such problems, the ministry is dealing with amendments to the Health Protection Act and thus making an assumption that it is actually reforming Serbia's health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48692	Twelve minutes used by the MPs' group. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today have, as always or most often, a united debate on issues that represent an attempt to correct the mistakes that occurred when the laws were passed. This is important because, even at the time of the adoption of the law, parliamentary groups of the opposition proposed certain amendments or in principle, they made observations that something in the law would not work, that it would not go as well as the legislator had foreseen in the initial legal text. That's why, today, we need to fix two laws. To try to approve in one of them the supremacy of the ministry of chambers that are otherwise represented as independent partners, in a general task of well-being for Serbian citizens, but also rich in medical professions. And that story, of course, is being triggered by the chambers themselves, it is currently possible to launch a particularly called medical chamber, but it is possible that the medical chamber is expecting similar reform procedures that will strengthen administrative and authoritarian dispute resolution mechanisms. Why does it matter? It's important because of the jurisdiction of the chamber, the doctor's office as the largest and often when I think and talk about chambers, I'm going to think about the medical chamber, which is why the most important and the most important and the most important and within the framework of my original and transferred responsibilities is very much about each doctor individually. Any doctor in Serbia today to ask what benefit he felt because he became a member of the chamber, they will say he doesn't know, in fact, except for those who are interested in the selection of members of the Assembly of the regional local chambers, but they know that every month they single out a decent application and that only the first quotation was about 100 euros. Today, when we hand over the licenses, you're unable to get a copy of the license done on the spot, where there's a copy machine, where there's an office, where employees work, and it's said it's gonna be retail volunteer work, and it won't cost anything. It's one of the remarks that can be put to the chamber. What if that chamber really wanted to deal with the description of its responsibilities, by carrying out the work as described in the jurisdiction given, if it really protected the interests of health care professionals. From what? A lot of things. From the way it is financed, let's say that now, according to the system of reception, the experimental centres in Serbia have already passed a good part of the story, and that will be the intention of having the reception carried out at all levels in all primary healthcare institutions. He has a very large number of objections. That's the money the EU gave us, which we were just talking about. The people who carried the projects and who were well paid for it, who convinced that as the funding model was proposed, we saw it in the authority strategy indicated. That's where the chamber didn't answer. Does he think that such a way of paying a doctor in primary health care is good, does he think that there will be a new discrepancies between them? Whether the criteria by which to be selected and have a certain number of selected ones are to be selected, to be a doctor of a certain number of patients, to have a certain number of related insurance companies and to be rational in accessing therapeutic and diagnostic, draws 80% of the necessary points, and you get at least the current salary. There is a legitimate concern of the doctor in the interior that if they really adhere to the intended scores and the way the points are turned simply into some mini managers who, every day after work, will finish their work by seeing how many negative points they may have gotten that day by putting someone on a repeat or another review, or that's why the one in secondary or tertiary health care asked him to make a diagnosis and that he writes the directions again. Whether to write this medicine or that medicine, whether local self-government will buy an envelope and a stamp and invite patients to screening and all of this will be rationality and efficiency and in some ways be measured. So, the chamber and the question is, how much does she take care of it? The question of how many chambers take care of the recently launched debate on what pharmaceutical houses can do, and what they cannot do in Serbia in terms of helping to hold meetings, expert meetings, etc. continued medical education. The determined value of the point seems too high. The chamber's description of its responsibilities needs to be part of the education, and I don't know where she's doing it. Maybe on our invisible level, I don't know a doctor whose chamber she paid to participate in continued medical education. The chamber needs to help the health care professional because of a professional error, most often the chamber waits for when a professional error happens to be convicted and then secondary, as in self-government times of the past, after all, to make clear what we think about it. There should be no mercy on whoever takes the money and drags his hand into his pocket, but to those who, from a combination of different types of malpractice or mildly unrecognizable reasons and the course of disease, do and someone who determines that a formal procedure is made for these people, as well as in other countries that hold to the importance and status of the chamber, to be helped in a certain way rather than just shot off. What we're talking about about is the changes in the chamber stemmed from the demands and behaviour of the dental chamber, which is simply, as well as the whole dental profession, simply prone to the adoption of a new Health Protection Act, in which almost half of their work and jurisdiction and went away, to say conditionally, it's not the private sector, of course, more private than in state institutions, it just has to be participated and paid. Dentologists often, there have also been speeches about a strike in Belgrade and many other places, nowadays they are unable to work on conditions and the way the Health Care Act prescribed for themselves and where it is for their assistant who works there. Because if a patient has to pay, he'll go in private and pay there. So that chamber didn't do anything, and it happened that a simple group of people could crash work or an institution. That's basically what a man must really support and think about having to give the Ministry an institutional advantage to prevent individual self-will. The director of that chamber to say that it works, except that no one but the minister can sign the license, it works, and now the question is how much the ministry might have used the opportunity to come across a weak proof of the functioning of the institution and to force it by administrative measures and its supremacy to operate according to rules that were not passed at the start of the law. Why isn't it brought in then, why does it happen in education when these laws change? Why personally in the Law of Psychotropic Substances. Many things are not arranged in advance, so it will soon come to a change of laws. The chamber should be subject to strong control by the Ministry of Finance. The chamber should be evaluated by colleges, high schools, high school medical schools. The Chamber should take note of the assessment of these institutions and, together with the National Health Council, adopt criteria for which the ministries, without telling the minister, not to speak in person, have no speech, cry out in their strategy that someone must once say how much Serbia needs a doctor, so just this moment it's three institutions that can assess, plus colleges. That's where you cultivate autonomy, and that's the full autonomy of the college of enrolment, a university conference that practically solves nothing. We cannot raise any questions, with a clear answer to what it is and how much Serbia needs in terms of health, how much education, and how much again is the jurisdiction and professional health council, and in particular the chamber, to approve the specialisation and why the hiatus, the gap in specializations, which is because the people need services that they pay more than the work of other specialists, therefore, the changed credit system regulations, orders, etc., are paid multiplely by those who are staffing deficits. Why? Where'd it go for ten years? Why don't we even have a cardio surgeon, an onco surgeon, why multiple salaries to those who work in the intervention don't diminish the importance of what these people do, but why such a big diapazon pay difference. Most of the time, it's not a competition, it's a recommendation, it's a teacher's kid, it's one way or another that people came through relationships and ties to places like that, and at a time when they haven't been paid in particular. Now that they are, the only other way is a broad front to specializing in human perfection, and I keep saying that, specialization costs the least, and the chamber does it. The chamber needs to ask about it. No, they have to ask the various commissions and bodies and bodies formed by the Ministry to make it work better, but there is obviously no better functioning. So around that, when a man looks at it, in order for the chamber to live or make it work, it is necessary to bring some binding behavioral models so that the hiatus does not occur, the void in work, the afunctionality of the chambers, but that the chamber must also give more to the citizens for which it is, the sick, and the doctors who make it in its composition, really have to give more. Of course, I'm not going to talk about the details, we're going to see the amendments where we try and change what we're proposing, and some of them seem usually written, and something very trendy, so I'd rather talk about the Health Protection Act. We, of course, often change this law. It is a roof law, very important, very important, that it should give equality and right to all for health care, right to the choice of doctors, right to timely intervention. He offered patients the right to complain about doctors whenever they wanted. Here, now they report them if they come out to smoke in front of the building, which is humiliating, for a chicota to go out into the streets and smoke, in front of the store. Women put a purse on their shoulders, doctors look like alleys to light a cigarette, they don't have rooms where they can, but nobody asked us to do that, ultimatically, or the EU or smoking room, and certainly 30% of the population in Serbia today is freezing. How many of them are going to have pneumonia, as much as this, as much as I don't know, but we intervened to prevent that too, to introduce strict control of what can be introduced, which is logical, and what doesn't make sense. Of course, this law you've passed, this third one, which I'm going to talk about, follows those penalties. It's simple, I guess those smokers need a million-dollar fine, irrationally unacceptable, that's a loss of a job for that one. By the way, by the way, I'm touching this smoking thing, and that's what we had to swallow, and that we're aware that we don't even have a gauze to operate on, which in some times when millions of people have already been forgotten from the store, who are the bearers of that time want those times to be forgotten. They fit in nicely on equal chances for everyone, and now we can't even mention the times in which private pharmacies sold gauze. They made houses, they organized various trips, they simply lived well, because they were better off than the state in times of crisis. If that time is coming back to us, we'll see about that. The Health Protection Act, we should see about the state exam, something the minister will prescribe - the state exam. It's a very sensitive point. We changed the terms and criteria of the amendments, to break it down a little bit, to have someone else ask themselves. Is there somewhere more logical to ask about it and the chamber, and to ask about it and health advice. From what I hear, it's hard to find a website that says, but it's a culinary story. From who? By the people who were pre-captured to do the job. There's always some genius at some college who'll come up with tests and a way to process tests and even the technology of a state exam. We've all been through a state exam, it's more of a knowledge of law, the constitution, informative knowledge about judicial medicine, something from prevention. Just to refresh some level of knowledge. Now it's going to have an obvious newspaper, as soon as it's changed here, so something new is coming up, and we're going to find out from the press, what these tortured students are waiting for when they do it. I'm sure there's something even more restrictive. Today, he's waiting for the graduates to pay 5,000, let's say, an overture of their graduate internship or to write a request to the dean for 1,500 dinars not to pay for 15 days until the exams of the entire six months of the apart. It's all turned into money, that's what we're looking for here. It's the same budget, but it doesn't matter, you take someone's money, whether they go into the budget or go to the ministry to spend it your way, it's already irrelevant. Looks like we're going to read it. Now we'd be able to change it. We don't even know how to imagine the concept of a state exam. It'll be new, it'll be harder. Some deans say they'll be like that to identify who the college comes from, and then they'll lean on those colleges and enroll. If that's the case, then who's generally behind it. Because you always have an ingenious expert, a professor, who is able to introduce an entire object or a palette of courses into college. You are no longer agreed and clear – the medical school in Serbia is all learning the same. No, it's far from what we used to have. What kind of inner harmony, internal mobility, God knows, but such mobility is almost gone. As for primary selections, primarys, that's something that's existed before, it can be in different professions of primacy, in pharmacies, dentistry, primary health care. You need to ask the chambers about it, not only are they proposing the primarius, but they need to ask more about it, how much will it cost, how many reviewers will take, but their work obviously has to be checked, because these are people who deserve it in the profession, and they had to do something in their lives and write. Not as serious and not as rigid as it means for the classroom, but it should be done in some way. We've tried some solutions to bring this situation into order and to ask people who are going to be concerned, to try through the suggestions that the chambers are making in front of themselves to introduce order into these titles that are curtous, academic, which maybe carry something from a level, a pay coefficient, and maybe not somewhere. That probably depends on the facility to the facility. It doesn't matter in the institutions that are the school's basics, but in the smaller environments it's very important. It was once really people with a high professional advantage over those who did not have such titles. So they chose the highest quality. As for the third intervention, Article 5, and when the law was passed, we talked about the fact that we can't decentralisation health and lower some of the primary health care to local self-government level. It shows problems with those who didn't even have the money to cover it at the time. Those who pretend to have money or really have it do something else. I'm following the Kragujevac budget where the item is slowly growing, but it's 10-12 million, it's pointlessly little in case of more serious interventions, a more serious need to choose and appoint directors, and then to hire and per member to update the competition when they receive their political staff, it's a massive phenomenon, and it absolutely doesn't need to be discussed, what does local self-government get, what kind of a specific problem? The doctor will have a doctor in Kragujevac in relation to the doctor in Bor and will only be able to carry him out under self-government. Otherwise, if the state hadn't controlled and been in vertical primary health care, as well as for other secondary and tertiary levels, he wouldn't have known and couldn't have done. I don't think a man knows how to set himself up right now, name the one who proposed the law to the state in general, that he still pays three more years for all the costs of functioning his homes. Then they'll wonder what they agreed to, they're at a loss, they're constantly in the deficit. They agreed to invest something, to pay something, and now maybe they'll ask that they simply report that they're not in a position to finance these costs, and that local self-government can manage directorial, principalal places, but gods and incomes in the workplace, which is clearly proven and solved in incredible ways. The law on psychoactive controlled substances is a law that will probably need to be processed. I'm checking the time, but you're welcome to interrupt me, so you don't look at the clock when the time is up. Viewed by members, the law, as it is for itself, seems unedited. It is evident that a great deal of effort has been made by someone who wrote it, but it was really necessary to combine the lighting of the problem with several aspects. It's one legal, judicial, police, even put local self-government somewhere, so it touches everyone, education and education. It's kind of a multidisciplinary approach at all. It wasn't easy for that group of people who wrote the law. Of course, I don't personify that the minister has written the law, it's always done by ministry services. It wasn't easy to do. That's probably why, in our opinion, there's something that we can fix with the amendment, but that, if it doesn't get fixed, will eventually be the turn. Let's say, in Article 4, when you define, you introduce a commission institution, it forms a government and that's all. There are also how many members there will be, how much by structure from the numbered institutions, what their mandate will be, what jurisdiction. Then in article 105, you mention again to a commission that monitors the destruction of confiscated psychoactive substances. So you have twice the word "committee" where this one is called a committee in brackets, and this one probably has to have a name and a last name. It's a technical problem. If a man writes an amendment, what commission does he mean? It should be more accurate. It involves local self-government. The Ministry of Local Self-Government does not exist, but for the state administration and local self-government. I guess that's a technical mistake. The deadlines here are not given at all. It's probably going to be the subject of an amendment to this law sometime. When it comes to the list and the list of medicines, they are mentioned, but in the globular of the term, there was no burning that at least a descriptive mention, that we know that we are not looking for official messengers of SFRY 1963, 1964, etc., so that we would simply see a list of the drugs of what is available and what has been found, instead of all the evidence of the compliance of the law, which we have been presented there in the agenda. When it comes to the lab, there's an impression that this lab already exists, that someone has it in the ministry and now just to activate it. Why do I say that? The way conditions are created for the creation of a laboratory and what conditions will be prescribed by the minister. So he'll be doing his professional service. It'll come as an act. We think there's a commission to ask about. So the commission would have to make a decision, especially who would be the reference labs, because the reference laboratory really has huge competences. We think we already have strong laboratories in Serbia, for drug control, toxicology, various, large numbers of laboratories that could conditionally carry out part of the affairs of this jurisdiction. Now we'll probably make another one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48694	Twenty minutes. The time available has been used. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? National MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48695	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, surely of these three legislative proposals the greatest importance and attention in our debate should take the law on psychoactive controlled substances. The law, which my colleagues from the parliamentary club will talk about much more, is in fact one continuity of a policy not only dictated by the Ministry of Health, but also by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is part of the strategy against drugs. I will just remind myself that this continuity is made up of a Commission to prevent the abuse of psychoactive substances, which was formed in 2004, followed by a strategy, and today we are passing this law and this whole regulatory framework should certainly be surrounded by the adoption of a mental health law. The importance of this law, above all, stems from the frequency and significance of mental disorders that are practically elsewhere after cardiovascular disease. I'd like to refer to these two laws concerning changes to the system's health care laws and the health workers' chambers. They, above all, should be a good reason to discuss the principles that were established in 2003 and 2004, especially by passing the law in 2005, which concerns decentralisation and status changes within health institutions concerning founding rights. On the other hand, when it comes to chambers, I will certainly touch on the principle established by the adoption of the law in 2005, which is to establish independent professional organisations. Whether or not it worked out and what the results are, I must say that it is, that a huge job has been done on this matter, a question of decentralisation and Serbian health is a question that when we look at a brief historical review, it is a change in centralised and decentralisation, so that from 1945 to 1960 we have practically had a centralized system in health, which has been easily decentralised in order to introduce SIZs that were practically on the municipal level, that decentralisation has even received some paradoxic elements and has caused huge problems, above all, in the sustainable financing of health care. Of course, from 1992 to practically 2002, with the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government and the extension of the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, this centralisation has returned, so that it must practically replace the public process of decentralisation, which must primarily lead to a sustainable system of functioning of health care. What has certainly been drawn up in the law that was passed in 2005, is that practically primary health care, i.e. existing homes of health, pharmacies since 1 January 2007 in terms of founding rights have been taken over by municipalities and cities. I have to look back here to say very often, whether out of ignorance or ignorance, sometimes because of malice, that as part of the takeover of founding rights are practical and health homes and some pharmacies are left to poor local self-governments anyway. I have to say that these institutions and today are closing contracts with the Republic Health Insurance Institute, which means that healthcare professionals continue to receive salaries from the Fund, supplying drugs, medical supplies, etc., and that the founding rights primarily meant that cities and municipalities took over investment ongoing maintenance, purchase of some technical equipment, rolling stock, etc., but there was always assistance and interventions from the Ministry of Health. So this process, which was set by the 2005 Law, which meant what I'm talking about - the takeover of founding rights, was practically completed in Belgrade by taking over the technicals at four clinical and hospital centres and health homes, all institutions from the primary, secondary and tertiary level are in Vojvodina. The idea was that, as part of all of this, health centres that were, to say, such institutions as the relics of a past time were to be separated into homes of health and general hospitals, where health homes would also be taken over from cities or municipalities, while the founder of hospitals would be the Republic. Today, when we see this score, and it primarily refers to the central Serbia area, of those 22 centres, two have completed the process, 18 health centres are far away as far as the process so-called. separation, while two health centres are at the very beginning. If you go into an analysis of these causes, they're very different from the center to the center. First of all, and most of all, people have faced each other, I'm talking about the health center administrations, with objective problems on the ground. They concerned, first of all, one difficulty in defining and creating a deobligation balance, where problems occurred in the distribution of objects, personnel, equipment, etc. On the other hand, there was an unpreparedness and one incompatibility of local self-government to take over the founding rights, whether it had no administrative capacity, any political will. Certainly, according to that operating procedure made by the ministry, which consists of some 16 administrative steps, where the largest number of health centres are in the finalisation of the process and it will certainly end. Why are we passing this law today? Because, practically, that five-year deadline has expired and we should not allow health centres that have not completed this procedure to enter into a kind of legal vacuum, where they might not be able to conclude, for example, a contract with the Republic Health Insurance Office, where the payment of salaries or the supply of medicines and medical supplies would certainly be compromised. So that continuity is possible and I think that we, as people in the legislative authority, should be able to implement what is the basic principle, which is one continuity in the implementation of healthcare. As for the second law on changes in the area of health care workers' chambers, I must say that the occasion, I suppose, was for the promoter the situation in Serbia's dental chamber. It is certain that the adoption of the law in 2005 has declared the principle of forming independent professional organisations that should enable, above all, the best possible conditions for the functioning of the profession. In most parts of the chamber, they managed to establish a quality work. Could this be better, since some of the predecessors have looked back on it, surely they can, but it seems to me that institutions are like chambers, which have existed in some societies for hundreds of years, are unreal and overly optimistic to expect that they will form and have that reputation in just a few years. What was happening in the Stomatology Chamber was a kind of lack of law, since no legal procedure was envisaged in the conflict that occurred in the administration of the chamber between the director and the board of directors, or the assembly, that would resolve the conflict. Like any law, looking at it in practice, we should promote it, and in that sense, I think that these are good suggestions that will spare us future problems like they did in the dental chamber. What I have to say in this place is one constant duality in thinking towards the independence of institutions. On the one hand, we have a constant need for people from some chambers of interference between the executive authorities in their work and for continuous intervention. On the other hand, I think the Ministry has found a very good measure not to interfere with the independence of the chambers. At this point, I want to, from this place, tell my colleagues that the greatest responsibility is actually on all of us as members of the chamber whether we're going to build their reputation. Surely there is one deficit in the legitimacy of representatives in individual chambers. Surely there are certain problems of organisation that may have been apostrophe here, but we all have to make an effort together to make these institutions to the extent that, let me say, the non-medical world, which observes and observes it, has one aspect that doctors and at all have in our society. So, as far as all these three legislative proposals are concerned, the G 17 Group of MPs will, of course, support these proposals and, as I said, my colleagues will talk a little bit more broadly about the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48696	Eleven minutes of time spent by representatives of the parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48697	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, here, again, in settled practice, we have a united debate on the set of laws in the health sphere, three legislative acts, two amendments and additions, so the bill on amendments and amendments to the Health Protection Act and the draft law on additions to the Law on the chambers of health workers and thirdly, which I think is very important, the bill on psychoactive controlled substances. These laws today, within a very short and limited time, will be discussed within this united debate, and this is one of the biggest criticisms of the SRS, because we believe that MPs will not have enough time to make any remarks relating to these laws within such a short time, especially this third one, which is a special law and which we consider to be a law that should be of national importance and which we will not solve in this way the problems that have existed in our country so far. As for this first law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, we do not know which way to discuss amendments to the Health Protection Act here in this distinguished home. A month and a half ago, on October 19th of this year, we discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which regulates the area of so-called area. In addition to the work of health workers, health associates, and for this reason, since the minister is present, I would ask the question – where and in which European country, where we are working so hard, there are laws that literally change every two months? We all know, which we have traveled across Europe and through European Parliaments, that the laws in European countries have been in force for up to 100 years. The next logical question is, which I am not asking alone, I see that MPs from other parliamentary groups have also been asked – whose fault is the failures and shortcomings that lead to such frequent changes and additions of health laws and the creation of general confusion? I would like to draw attention to you, honourable Members, that, following the debate, the Committee on Health and Family has not reached a decision on the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, in accordance with Article 80(1) and Article 155 of Article 155 of the new Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly. It was a quorum, there were 12 MPs, but the proposed law voted for six MPs, five against and one MP did not vote. What is also important is that this is not the first time that in the Committee on Health and Family, the ruling coalition that has the majority was not in agreement with the proposed laws. Now I'm going to move on to this bill of law that has amendments that are mostly to change the six-members. I will start first from Articles 1 to 4 where compliance with the rules governing the area of the budgetary system, i.e. the 2011 budget, has been carried out. The provisions relating to the arrangement of the arrangements and the procedure for laying the so-called so-called ‘supply’ shall be cited. professional examinations, for healthcare professionals, health associates. There is also our observation – why is the minister the competent person who sets the rules for passing expert exams? Then, obtaining the name of the primarius and stating that all the funds achieved belong to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the purpose of spending these funds. The question is – where have the funds gone so far based on the payment of fees for the submission of professional examinations of healthcare professionals, health associates and the acquisition of the name primarius that are now going into the budget? The budget law is the most important in each parliament and reforms should first start with the way they finance health services, not by introducing modern solutions that do not have a realistic assumption of realisation. The current budgets do not show any amount that the Ministry of Health is making by paying the fees for passing professional exams and obtaining the name primarius, nor by whom these funds go. Furthermore, we are not dealing with the removal of systemic causes that have led to a stalemate of health, but the consequences, i.e. the patching of holes in the budget. In Article 5 of the Law, you prescribed a five-year deadline for the acquisition of founding rights over health homes by local self-government to be extended to eight years. That's why you're passing the law by an urgent procedure, because by December 10th of this year, the deadline has already expired, according to the current Health Protection Act, all health centres would cease to exist as such, and instead of that, health and pharmacy homes would function, which would be financed by local self-government, and general hospitals would remain under the authority of the Republic of Serbia. How did you think to finish this job, when the transfer funds for local self-government were once about 60 billion dinars, and in the meantime they were reduced to about 23 billion, with which you will find it difficult to cover these additional costs. Local self-government points out the problem of taking over founding rights, i.e. the division between the home of health and the general hospital for a simple reason that for many years in these areas, the health center in many municipalities is a unique institution, so that separation is not simple at all, for a physical reason, because it is a common facility, a common service, a joint staff that accuses one and another institution, so we appeal that you stop this process. A new form of healthcare organisation will not bring about an improvement in Serbia, nor better healthcare and therefore Serbia's citizens fear. The process of separation began with a deobligation balance, and the first and most often unsecured problems were created there. If the home of health also succeeds and acquires the property of a legal person, what is simply unacceptable, inhumane and which will create even greater chaos in health, which is that both the health care and general hospitals have common diagnostics, laboratories, X-rays, ultrasounds and some specialist services. And so far, there have been various waiting lists. And so far, people in their pocket have paid a favor not to wait six months for these specialist reviews. That's why we find this inhumane and unacceptable. In most European countries, over 80% of healthcare services provide private practice. Wouldn't it be more effective if private practice with all available facilities were included and primary healthcare services would necessarily be provided to insured citizens? This would also increase availability and scope and quality of healthcare. In this way, a large number of health workers and health associates would be employed. We know there are about 1,000 doctors and about 4,000 nurses on the Bureau. On the other hand, if healthcare professionals and health associates were adequately paid, there would be no need for additional work, in which some doctors work for 12 hours. That's why we think you need to think about this law one more time. We believe that the effects of this supplemental work are a source of conflict of interest. In this regard, I point to the EU's Working Time Directive. I think there's a limited time for healthcare professionals and you should know more about it. We believe that health centres have not overcome solutions and that this is a selective approach, given that no existing way of financing health centres has been overcome. I would no longer deal with these amendments and additions to the law. There's a lot of inadequacy. I'd move on to other laws. That's what my colleagues are going to continue on about. Now I would like to take a brief look at how much time it allows me to propose a law supplementing the Law on the chambers of health workers. We express our dissent with the explanation of the government's representatives according to which this proposal creates conditions for the continued operation of the chambers of health workers, and that these supplements provide the possibility of re-constituting the authorities of chambers, Article 27b of this bill. We believe that the proposal by the Minister and the Serbian Doctor's Society has the most influence in proposing board members to call the elections for the chamber assembly, which puts the work of chambers in question as an independent body. In the proposed amendments to the law, the argument does not correspond to specific situations, so for all exceptional reasons, the SRS parliamentary group will not support this bill. Now both as a psychiatrist and as a doctor and as an MP, it would be the most likely to remain on this bill on psychoactive controlled substances. It is carried out by emergency procedure and without the participation of consultants in the making of regulations and their opinions on compliance, which we consider not to be good. Our objection to the promoters is to refer all the system laws to the assembly procedure by emergency procedure. And this law belongs to the system laws, it's very comprehensive. There are 117 members in 15 chapters and we believe that it is of national importance and that it is not an appropriate way to bring it. The next remark is on a given explanation in which, among other things, you state the need for harmonisation of the rules, and then the rules are listed in 1961, 1971, 1996, 2004 and 2005, then the EU Strategy on Drugs and the EU Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy. Does this mean that our country was not obliged to comply with these European rules until 2005? Also, our observation is why is there no mention here of the EU document "21st Goal for the 21st Century", i.e. point 15 of this document, which states that the number of addicts from psychoactive controlled substances must be reduced by 2015? In this way, MPs are brought into an unspeakable situation that serious matter must be read quickly and cannot work in quality. This work is not typical of any European Parliament. We know that three readings are carried out in these parliaments before the law is passed or not passed. Such legislation is an undeniable need. The SRS agrees with that, but such an unquality way of working is for every protest. There's a mental health law missing here as a roof law and it's nowhere to be mentioned. The Ministry of Health has had enough time since 2001 when you say you're going to pass this law to pass this roof law and I'm asking why it hasn't been done. It is explained that the adoption of this law does not require additional financial resources in the budget. On page 3 of the proposed law, Article 4, which speaks of a commission on psychoactive controlled substances, said the funds for the commission's work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This commission is the first to increase the state apparatus. We believe that the current administration in the ministry should take responsibility for these activities and should do them effectively and not multiply the administration in this way. As we have already noted, this law is being discussed in a united debate and the law is too widespread, but unspoken. Here, we touched this member of the 4th and Commission. You don't mention in Article 4 here, all you're saying is that the representatives of the ministry are members of the committee, but you're nowhere to indicate how many prominent experts you're going to have in this area. We believe that this commission, as another commission you introduce, is an additional blow to the state budget and everything, but you have not clearly and accurately defined enough. This substance law is very necessary, as I said, especially since it is threatened in Serbia by a young population and we don't think that this way the passed law will protect against abuse, disease of addiction, crime and violence, especially the young population. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, you state that the proposed system regulation of conditions for production, transport, export, import and transit of psychoactive controlled substances, conditions for cultivation, processing of plants from which psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained, and ultimately, as well as other issues relevant to the protection of life and health. We believe that this bill will not make what needs to be effective effective, and here above all I think about reducing the number of drug addicts, or psychoactive controlled substances. There are many laws in Serbia that regulate this matter, which is offered in this bill. A national strategy has been implemented since 2009, as well as an Action Plan for the Treatment of Dependence Diseases. What's the score? The state still doesn't have an exact record of how many drug addicts there are. There are supposed to be somewhere between 30,000 and 130,000 addicts of psychoactive substances, and 24,000 of them are heroin addicts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48698	It's been used for 20 minutes. Thank you. National MP Simo Vukovic, deputy chairman of the Health Committee. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48699	Correction for the sake of fact, here is often used by the Health and Family Committee to show that perhaps the ministry policy does not have a majority on the Committee. This absolutely does not stand, because practically since the start of the committee's work, even with some opposition MPs, the ministry has received full support and so is today. It is incorrect to say that some legal proposal has not been supported because at the same time, for example, it is a legal proposal. set up another committee on which an MP who is also scheduled to participate in the work is currently out. I do not think I dispute the legitimate right of the opposition to deal with these matters, but it is not correct to represent the Committee in such a way that the MPs of the majority, who, with the greatest contribution to the work of that committee, are making a maximum effort to improve the quality of the Committee's work and are almost by the rule of law, are incorrectly reported on the meetings of that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48700	National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48701	I can't help but answer Mr. Sima Vukovic. I don't think I brought anything out that's true. I've quoted exactly what member and how many members there were on the board. This is one example when there were not enough MPs for the majority to support the legislative proposal. When a decision was taken on a legal proposal on tobacco smoke, it was also insufficient to take an opinion on this legislative proposal. It's not our fault. You should like most to have most when holding sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48702	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups report for a word to use their right at this session? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are under Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, and in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS parliamentary group, the Progressive Group of Serbia, the G17 Plus MP group, the New Serbia MP group, the DSS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. We are moving to part of the session and discussion in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Miletic Mihajlovic, followed by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48703	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Associates of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will speak of amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. This part is significant from the aspect of what the Health Protection Act requires when it comes to the separation of health care segments to the primary and second secondary. In fact, it is about the transformation of health centres that should have been done by law from 2005 to 2010. There was a legal possibility that the founding rights of health homes would take over local self-government, and now we are faced with the fact that it was not done in individual health centres, especially in those local self-governments that are in underdeveloped municipalities. At first, I will say that there is no confusion, that the SPS – JS parliamentary group will support this law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. Here, first of all, when it comes to this topic I'm talking about, it's three years from now that the possibility of taking over the founding rights by local self-government for homes of health is being extended. These problems in the acquisition of founding rights, when it comes to homes of health and when it comes to the transformation of health centres that are practically no longer in existence, can be classified into two categories. One problem category that creates difficulties is the inability of local self-government from a group of underdeveloped municipalities to finance health homes in that part of which they need to take over, or the inability to provide sufficient resources in the budget of their local self-government. We must recognise that today there are drastic differences between certain local self-governments, such as those most developed, such as Belgrade and other major centres, and local self-government in the south or east of Serbia or in other parts. These are the differences, if we wanted to paint this vividly, like America and the undeveloped world. This may be the pre-named one assessment, but certainly there is a drastic difference in everything that is life and everything that is development and the way of life and that economic development, for example. between Belgrade and southern Serbia. We have not yet leveled or at least brought closer to what is the development of certain areas in Serbia and how can we then create assumptions in health care if there are such large and drastic differences between local self-governments. The other problem that arises here is the real indivisibility of health centers. Because, in fact, for many years, all investments and development of health centres have gone in the direction of functioning and creating assumptions for the functioning of a single, single system within a health center. We, after such a practice, have one such definition today, practically, a very difficult shared space within the health center. We have these objects that are so organized and made that they are practically indivisible, and they function as primary health care and secondary care, etc. Furthermore, we have a unique infrastructure such as electricity, heating or, say, gas stations that are needed in the functioning of these facilities. Or, for example, we have installed equipment for the work of health workers and certain specialities in facilities that now, according to this new deobo, should belong to another segment of health care. The amendments offered and the additions of this law do not allow an amendment to intervention in the sense that it might be possible to make a proposal in terms of overcoming these problems and respecting the reality that we have in individual health centres, especially in undeveloped municipalities. Of course, the proposed amendments to the law in part to extend the three-year possibility of taking over founding rights by local self-government, perhaps also provide the possibility that, the Ministry or some other entity, but of course, first of all, the Ministry, perhaps at a given moment and offer to amend and supplement the law in the direction of these problems, at least in the part where we have a small number of remaining health centres that may not be able to solve these problems that I am talking about here on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. This change and addition may be going towards the categorization of these health centers, which would practically face the question the law requires so far, which would be an artificial division of these health centers. The categorisation could be carried out by a state-run commission composed of professionals, which would not leave the possibility of improvisation or subjective interpretation of the possibility that there may be a third category in the organisation of health care. It is that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia there is still a category of health centres, where we have a drastic lack of development of local self-government and where we have these specificities which, type, indivisibility of capacities and everything that is logistics, infrastructure, etc. in those health centers. This kind of problem exists at a health center where I come from, and that's Petrovac at Mlava. I think it was necessary, but it might not be too late to do it in the rest of the area where there will be problems, and I believe there will be after three years. And when this opportunity on these changes and additions is over, we will be faced with this problem. We need to record the situation in these municipalities that I'm talking about, be realistic, objective and do something about it. We cannot claim to create equal health care conditions in developed environments and underdeveloped environments. And then, if we insist that, after this law, we bring it down to one form, because the law is inexorable, we will come into a situation that we have practically discriminated against people in certain parts of Serbia, in the sense that there are no appropriate assumptions for the functioning of this primary health care or for the functioning of this second part, of the stationary work, etc. Of course, it doesn't have to be thought out, when I'm talking about this, I don't propose, and I'm aware of the fact that it wouldn't be worth devising what the intensity and what was the task of this law, in terms of essential and functional separation between what is the primary health care and the other segments. And this might be done in a small number and in the context of the unique health centres, through the precise normisation and description of what are competences and what are the functions of certain services, individual specialities, certain parts of health services, and that within the single system we have this functional separation, to take care of what is rationalization, and so as not to diversify what is the desire to adopt this law, when we had solutions to divide it into health homes and those other segments of the stationary, i.e. hospitals, etc. At this point, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I would draw attention and ask Mr. Minister and his associates to deal with this issue in the next period, not in order to degrade and withdraw what was the attempt and what was the aim of this law, but above all in terms of respecting these difficulties when it comes to these material possibilities of undeveloped municipalities, and yet it is a smaller number, but also a drastically undeveloped municipality. Secondly, when it comes to health centres that have actually developed as a unique system and are now difficult to divide. Any division would be artificial. Over the next three years, we may be able to make an exception, in terms of creating equal or at least, roughly equal assumptions for the health care of people who live and in those parts of Serbia. Thank you for your attention. Of course, the SPS parliamentary club - Unique Serbia will vote in favour of this law and the remaining two laws from this set.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48704	Thirteen minutes and 55 seconds used by the parliamentary group. The word has been given by Parliamentarian Milan Knezevic, followed by National MP Elizabeth Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48705	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as at the beginning, as well as my colleagues, I would like to comment on the unification of these points. You could have been a little more objective, so you could combine these two points relating to the amendment of the Health Law and the other one relating to the medical chambers, and this law on psychoactive substances should be specifically discussed, because these two are already in multiple mosses, various changes and additions to the principled discussion, discussed earlier. I'm really surprised, unnecessary. We discussed the laws a month ago, the amendments to the Health Act, in the field of complementar work and the abolition of that member who was in front of the Constitutional Court, so I really can't believe that, a month ago, these changes that were on the agenda were not present. Given the content of the remarks that have now been presented to us here through amendments to the law, I think it was the same and I'm asking the question -- why haven't these changes been discussed at the same time? I respect the minister in the work, he is a university professor and surely his time is precious in timing, and this unnecessary loss of debate and time leaves and the least said bad impression of the government's work, because in a month you discuss twice. We have a debate in principle twice, a debate in front of the parliamentary group twice, it's not just a waste of time, it costs. It costs and certainly, if these changes were collected, only in these months did we spend two or three days through various journals for the work of the Assembly, so on the one hand it was a unnecessary waste of time, and on the other hand it cost and it really cost this unnecessary, especially what I think could have been put on the agenda then. Now I'd like to say something precisely about these amendments to the Health Protection Act. When I look at it, I'm looking at the old law, and all of this was, and as far as the expert exam and the primacy are concerned, I'm only going to get attached to the specific members who gave it, I'm not going to expand the debate into some other areas of healthcare, these are some of my other colleagues who discussed it, so I'm going to get attached first to changing members about the professional exam and the primarys. In the previous law, it was in one sentence where the minister has authority again. However, one question is raised here – we have that the minister prescribes a programme, content, way, process, costs of passing an expert exam, and then we have the same thing to prescribe closer conditions, ways, procedures and costs for obtaining the name of the primarius. As far as I'm concerned, our parliamentary groups -- all right, process, costs, what beliefs about the expert exam look like, let them be formal-technical things that will always be the professional sector of a ministry to process, but this programme of laying, where we say the expert exam, we say the program and the content, it's not so formal-legal, it's the essential thing. When it comes to the primarius, for that level of choice, the essential thing is the closer conditions and the way. Personally, although we do not have a long tradition of passing professional exams, it is certain that the form of passing an expert exam is present so far, it is nothing new, as well as the conditions and manner of calling the primarius, but it is evident that in this part, especially when thinking about professional exams, both for health associates and doctors, should seek both this programme and the content legally and in the law, through discussion let the decision be made, which institutions will be consulted. Why? He's changed his way of studying as far as medical schools are concerned. In some ways, they entered Bologna, with the way of organisation, practical work, and not to enter all segments that, although the essence of study is the same, changes some relationships and I personally believe that passing an expert exam should not, however, be a prerogative name, and that it should form a commission that will establish a new way and program of passing an expert examination, which is evident on the way, because it has to agree that part with new content, programmes, approaches, that we do not enter into it now. So that part of the program and the contents should be regulated legally, that not only stands the minister, but in an appropriate way, I won't at this point and say any suggestion, any thinking. I believe that again within the professional bodies, whether the chambers or the Serbian Doctor's Society should find a way to find a way through a professional debate for a certain certain due time, and it will happen very quickly, determine the way and the programme, or the content of professional examinations, but find the best solution that will be quality in this. This part is not formal, it is an essential part of which is not to be forgotten and to be taken into account and paid attention because in practice it will show a lot of objections and problems if a smaller group in the form of a commission or any expert body determines how to pass exams until an appropriate expert forum is found which will by expert arguments and counterarguments to determine this form of passing expert examinations. I'm saying this because I'm aware that in some countries of the world, in a very different way, a professional exam is determined, quantified and determined after the same college list, or university based on it. I'm aware of that, which is why I'm discussing, that this part is not cosmetics, but the essence that needs to be taken care of in the future. One practical thing that promotes again, and the same will appear as a problem, which is getting the name primarius, which has long existed for people who have not continued, who have shown great effort, contribution in health care, in education, in research, not to say what is safe and ordinary people who are not in medicine know what is called primarius. I entered the Ministry's website on these terms to get the name primarius. It's all there: and 12 years of working hours, a specialist exam, not getting into all the conditions, fighting papers, all that's resolved. In addition, a seemingly banal thing is now emerging, but based on the story and from its colleagues, it can unnecessarily grow into a collage, and surely it can overcome itself. That is, for example, to get the name primarius needs the opinion of the branch of the Serbian Doctor's Society, then the opinion of the appropriate section of the Serbian Doctor's Society, and the confirmation of membership in the Serbian Doctor's Society. First of all, the Serbian medical community has a long tradition. It was founded in 1872, among the oldest associations in Europe. He founded the Serbian Archives. There is an immeasurable contribution to the development of health care, medicine, college in these areas. So, all of this needs to be respected, and with all due respect, I treat it. But the next problem arises – that we have legally formed the health care workers' chambers since 2005. It's something that didn't exist, that exists in other countries and chambers give licenses, lift licenses, necessarily, and that's where we have to be members, and that's where the right amount of money for funding is rejected, okay, I have nothing against it, every year we have to prove the number of points, not to bother a citizen who is that number of points. So you gave legal power to the chambers that should exist. But then here, at least in this Regulation, let's add that the opinion of the medical chamber is also needed because in her and the law, the basic and statute stands. There's a problem that's not a problem. We are all dualists, not to say, the doctors have become two-headed angels, and members of the health care workers' chamber and the Serbian medical society. We can't cut off any heads. But we need to find a solution to separate resolutions, to respect the jurisdiction of each of these, and the Serbian Doctor's Society and the Chamber. Because we must act in this way and respect the Serbian Doctor's Society through expert branches, meetings and legislation and the strength of the health care workers' chamber, which also drives initiatives. I'm saying this because even through this law of change, it could have been mentioned in the primaries and some other things. I mentioned the health care workers' chamber, so I'd be able to reach out to this other law later. This discussion of mine is not a criticism. These are remarks that are heard, which can be resolved. Whether or not the Ministry will do that, by forming something, you will see in the future. I'm an MP now, and in a year I won't be, but I'm going to be a doctor, but I'm going to face this problem of our esnaf and our gang with things like this that don't need to be like this. They can be clearly resolved. There are some problems that we don't think about, which in practice exist, and these amendments of the law have encouraged me to do so. This eight-year extension for health care centers, I would like to comment on that. There are both subjective and objective circumstances. Subjective circumstances, given the circumstances, I know some, and I'm sure the minister also knows them, in some parts of the issue of this separation, whether only financial resources or relevant party personnel, in terms of directors, who may have been good experts, but as far as the directorship was concerned, were indolent, casual, insufficiently invested, protected by a party directorial post. Some separations of health homes, or separations within health centers, have not been carried out. But there are also objective situations that raise the question, will it be possible for local self-government not in three years, not enough, to finance health homes for the next ten years at all? It's the easiest thing to do. The doctors will leave. It's not just the work of health, it's all about the expertise and all the things that you need to support in an undeveloped environment you have quality health care. The third category in these objective situations is poverty again. With this I would support the discussion of Miletic, probably the ministry is much better acquainted, indeed, one perhaps on the side of the banal thing, that the objective situation is such that it is difficult to separate the home of health from the hospital. Or it can even be counterproductive and dysfunctional. So, in that part, this three-year term must be small. Or when the law was passed, the situation was not recorded, and surely the situation was not recorded at that time, for if it had been recorded, they would have said in the law for ten years. Again, some other MPs will extend the deadline in three years or have to find some moduso, I do not understand at that level in the way of the organisation, where for those environments this problem will be resolved in another way. This is all I had to say about these amendments to the Health Protection Act. There's something I'd like to say about the Health Care Department Act. I'm not going to quote the director's reactions, she's in such a place that she has to show such a reaction in a particular situation. I would read the first member of the Chamber Act: "This law establishes the chambers of health workers as an independent professional organisation." So, by 2005, they were gone. At that time, the ministry had to establish with the power of authority and legislation, because they exist in other countries of the world. In the final provisions of this law, the procedure for the beginning of the work of chambers is the same as in this proposed for a specific situation – the same, within 60 days, not to quote what is said. But then you were more comfortable. What do you mean, more comfortable? There was no law. Now it was supposed to be a little wiser. I'm stupid to say at this age a minister who's had many years of experience, perhaps in many things more than I do in this work and organization, but this member needed a different one. The state formed it, and it needed chambers to form, nothing was disputed. But when you said they were independent professional organisations, you had to find a mode of intervention in a particular case, I heard and I looked at the internet a little bit, as far as dentistry is concerned, to resolve, to consult with them, to find some sort of agreement, and not to make an unnecessary additional complication by force of the ministerial position, to react to the chamber, to respond to the members, to react to the parties. Because this really loses the independence of the chamber. So the fact act is to force the ministry to appoint a director. There's an objective situation that's happened. We don't argue with her. It was supposed to be resolved. But life teaches us that always where there are problems of that kind, there's a conflict of two or three currents. One has one concept, the other, one has support in one ruling coalition, the other in another, etc. It's not just in chambers, it's on other levels, and it usually comes to situations like this. But again, it was necessary to respect the chamber, which you formed as independent, to ask them for help in a fine way and to come to a solution with common forces. Because I repeat again, we sit on two chairs – both in the Serbian Medical Society and in the Chamber of Health Professionals. So this procedure was supposed to be carried out the other way. The fact of the matter is that you are trying to influence and violate the first member, which is the independence and professional work of an organization called the Chamber of Health Professionals. So, in that part, the saber should not be pulled immediately – Gordi’s knot should be cut with saber. It doesn't always have to be done, it needs to be found another way. That's our remark. Seeing as the time is up, I'll finish, so I can give my colleagues time to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48706	Nineteen minutes and 20 seconds used by the MPs' group. The word is a folk letter from Elizabeth Paunovic, followed by a folk MP named Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48707	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is my first public address at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to publicly express my satisfaction that I will work with all of you MPs in the National Assembly. Today, I would like to comment specifically on the texts of two draft laws, and this proposal for a law on amendments to the Health Protection Act and the proposal for a bill on psychoactive controlled substances. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, they are amended and complemented mainly by a part relating to a more precise description of the procedures than is the case in the existing Health Protection Act, which regulates the procedure for passing an expert exam, assigns the titles of the primaryis, but are conditioned and amended by some other legislation which is outside the health sector, such as the Budget Law, so that all of this is intended to identify irregularities or discrepancies, for example, with the Budget Law, to specify, in a better way, and to complete and certainly contribute to a lighter and better application of the law. However, I would like to draw attention and comment on and particularly support as the MP of the G17 Plus party, as the headquarters of the United Regions of Serbia, that part that is directly linked to the decentralisation processes. Speaking in simple language, the deadline for taking over founding rights over health homes by local self-government was extended from five to eight years, i.e. for another three years, because the Health Protection Act was passed five years ago, and then it was given a five-year deadline for the acquisition of founding rights. Now one who without much deepening and mechanically commenting on this change could ask – how exactly those who advocate decentralisation support the extension of this deadline. The process of decentralisation itself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very painful and requires that not only material, but all other resources exist at the local level, and as a prerequisite, includes the existence of satisfactory human resources capacities. Also, by carrying out decentralisation from the central government level directly towards local self-government, a model has been applied, which has just been recognised by the United Regions of Serbia as practically difficult to achieve, without the existence of an intermedial or regional level of government. The United Regions of Serbia are now in favour of such a decentralisation process that would bring services closer to citizens based on regional similarities, specificities and characteristics. By conducting the decentralisation process in a way that directly takes over founding rights from the central government to local self-government, local self-government has indeed faced a number of problems precisely because of the lack of a regional or intermedial level. These problems are recognised not only in the process of decentralisation of the health system, but also in the education and services provided by social protection. Due to all this, for the decentralisation process to take place as high as possible for a year now, the implementation of the project of providing improved services at the local level, which is conducted by all three of those ministries together. The project is financed through the International Bank's loan for Reconstruction and Development, the total value of the loan is 32m euros, out of which the Ministry of Health will receive 12.5m euros for the implementation of the basic objective of the project. What is the basic objective? This is to provide additional assistance to the initial reform of primary health care, to strengthen the capacity of institutions and end-users in terms of improving availability and quality of healthcare, at all levels and all parts of the Republic of Serbia alike. What is the significance of this project for the decentralisation process itself? The Treaty on the Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe, whose Serbia has been a member since 2003, stands – it is desirable that public affairs are performed by those levels of government closest to citizens and that local authorities have the right to appropriate own sources of funding, which are freely available in the framework of their powers. On the road to European integration and decentralisation of the health system, according to the Health Protection Act, in Serbia, the founding rights for health homes and pharmacies have been transferred to municipalities. In practice precisely because of the problems I was talking about, it was not possible to do this anywhere until today, and Mr. Minister informed us that there were a dozen health homes left, or centres that should be decentralised, and the 2006 Law on the financing of local self-government established the right of municipalities to source revenues. This means that local self-government should take the law of intended obligations and see the health of its citizens as their own responsibility, which is one big step. In this respect, the project to provide improved services at local level, financed by the International Bank's credit for reconstruction and development, makes a strong contribution to strengthening the capacity of primary health care workers and municipalities, and to making decisions in the field of governance on a new way of financing, assessing the needs of sensitive population groups, strategic planning, continuous improvement of quality and use of information technologies, so that they can respond quickly and efficiently to the needs of their citizens, means specific needs, and contribute to efficiency, justice, uniform quality of provision of services at local level. Also, a model will be created that will be able to apply other local self-governments that have failed to complete this process today, we said there are a dozen, and they do not belong to 42 local self-governments that are using these funds from this loan to strengthen their capacities. With the party G17 plus as the headquarters of the United Regions of Serbia in mind for such a decentralisation process that will benefit all of our citizens, and that through all these described activities and conditions will be created over the next three years, we support this very responsible approach. I would also like to comment on the bill on psychoactive controlled substances. The bill is an ideal example of why it is important for the Republic of Serbia to bring its legislation into line with EU legislation, but also with documents brought in the relevant bodies and institutions of UN, the Council of Europe, the World Health Organization's recommendations. This law regulates a very important area, an area of psychoactive controlled substances, which are substances that cause addiction or colloquial drug use. One of the basic objectives of this law is to establish a balance between adequate control and abuse of psychoactive controlled substances, but also to ensure their availability in other human, scientific, research, medical, and in accordance with these documents. I would like to point out some of the data from which we see the area of abuse of psychoactive substances as well as such a law that represents a paper in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, according to its integrated approach, but also by its compliance with international recommendations and conventions. Namely, the ESPAD survey, which is a keybinding for European School Research on the use of alcohol and other drugs among young people, was conducted in 2005 and 2008, in our country, and according to a unique internationally adopted methodology, so that we can compare data with other countries and see where we are and refer to students of the first year of high school. This is about 15-year-olds. Data for 2008 suggest that at least once during the lives of 7.3 students, a 15-year-old tried cannabis. However, a reduction in the frequency of cannabis use compared to 2005, when the percentage was 12.9%, but this should not fool us, because regardless of this reduction, the problem remains present. According to data from the same research, the use of cannabis or hashish in the last 12 months, again I note that 15-year-olds have reported 4.9 students and twice as many boys as girls. The use of cannabis or hashish is usually a prelude to more severe forms of addiction, so the National Office for HIV/AIDS estimates that there are between 12.5 thousand and 25,000 intravenous in the Republic of Serbia, meaning the injecting users of psychoactive substances. These are official data from the HIV-side Office. In 2007, 138 deaths were registered due to drug abuse. With all this in mind, it is necessary that the activities that lead to the reduction of the number of users and how those related to the reduction of demand, which are essential and in the first place of the family, I really must point out, then health care prevention work, what schools, society, health systems say, but the family in the first place, we must not forget, and so must those relating to the reduction of offers, which is the subject of this law. It means that cooperation within the international community in the control of psychoactive substances is crucial, and in order to implement this, it is necessary for the area to be regulated in a unique way. That is why, as I have already said, harmonising with UN documents, but also with the EU's legislative framework, aims to reduce the abuse of psychoactive substances in the Republic of Serbia and, of course, to reduce the number of addicts. That is the essence of harmonising our laws with the EU's legal assets. That is why I said that this is an ideal example to see that this is not a matter of mechanical harmonisation and coordination with something that has nothing to do with us, because it is a direct benefit in the Republic of Serbia due to the application of legal solutions that have already proved to be effective, functional, and in this particular case enable effective co-operation and exchange of data, in order to carry out a risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances. Because of all of this, we support this bill, which is in line with EU law, which represents a significant step in Serbia's European integration, and in the first place, which will contribute to reducing the number of addicts from psychoactive substances or collokchially those who are addicted to drugs and because of their addictions are completely mentally and physically failed, unable to live normally, to work, to be satisfied, happy, and this is particularly devastating among young people. The G 17 Plus party, as the headquarters of the United Regions of Serbia and as part of the EES group, will vote in favour of the amendment law and additions to the Health Protection Act and the proposal for a bill on psychoactive controlled substances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48708	13 minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Milet Poscuric has the word, and after him is the folk messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Time is available for seven minutes and five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48709	So, we stopped at the lab at the place where they talk about what they're gonna be able to do with an authorized lab. Among other things, he's doing physical-chemical control of a substance that causes poisoning. We think it's an inappropriate expression of poisoning, a team before if that psychoactive substance is sometimes in the composition of a drug or itself can be a cure, for example, methadone. It may be more logical, in accordance with the Health Protection Act, the Medicines Agency and in the second roof law, to use the term "harmful facts", "unwanted facts", because then they can be categorized to light, heavy, etc. So, a termological question within jurisdiction. However, it is no longer just a termological issue. If it's about taking biological material and having the minister prescribe it, there's no need, it should be done by the minister, to officially do a job done by the reference laboratory. It is also her jurisdiction in Article 20 to prescribe, and who better to know than those who work in the laboratory, what is a sufficient biological pattern for determining presence, whether only these three types of organic matter in which it can be isolated from the human organism, what are modern substances and how modern, perhaps unknown and unrecognized substances can all be eliminated. The Institute of Toxicology, Academys and Labs Many who can help, although technically nice sounds to be prescribed by the minister, yes, but if he consults someone. It's just that we always put it in the first place. Clinical interrogation. It should not be avoided from the guidelines prescribed by the Medicines Agency. It may be necessary for the Minister, together with the Commission, to be directed and to approve that such a medicinal product, which is being studied, can be used at all, and then to continue the procedure relating to the clinical trial of medicinal products. There's nothing to stand down in. We think that there are some deadlines needed to know when anyone will respond to the request of an institution, a sponsor who wants to conduct a clinical trial with a medicine containing both a psychotropic substance or itself. The way we talk about the application of health technologies. Well, we already have one commission on the application of health technologies and in that roof law. I often say roof, it just seems more important to me than this. I don't see what else should be created here as an alternative, if new health technologies are in place at all, maybe in connection with the lab itself, I don't know what the new health technology would be worth paying attention to. I don't even know if this Health Technology Assessment Commission, which we have in the Health Protection Act, works. The question is if she's formed, who's the head of the commission, what she's solved, etc. Things got into Serbia through donations and unnecessary purchases. Did it all go away, whether it went as urgent, necessary, without their opinion, we talked about it before, but it remains still unclear, we didn't get an answer to that. We don't think this problem should be put in place now and in this law further. Reporting cases of poisoning and deaths is an obligation, of course, to every health institution. To avoid the word "poison" rather than to divide it a little more precisely – by unwanted facts, easy, heavy, serious etc. This nomenclature has been adopted in many rules, and such a vague report under special circumstances. Who should write it, who unusually ordered it a lot, etc.? I'm going to interrupt now, give my colleagues time to make his point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48710	Three minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter Jelena Travar Miljević, followed by the National MP Predrag Mijatovic. Time is available for 15 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48711	Respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, without ever resorting to repeat to anyone again that when we talk about such laws, there should be no party commitment and party goals, simply this is a problem concerning both the great Belgrade and my small town, both the EU and international co-operation. Of course, there is a personal satisfaction that we are adopting another law that leads to European integration and cross-sectoral co-operation and inter-regional co-operation. Of course, there's a pleasure when one of these serious areas is trying to regulate legally. It is certainly good to have solutions offered in one law for what is specific and for what is not specific. If we consider a system of disturbed values in which most of our young citizens create a personality, a lack of existence, that is. A lack of healthy lifestyles, sociopathological phenomena and disturbances in, unfortunately, the modern family, you will agree that the adoption of one law, such as the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, cannot be the fruit of compromise, but should be essentially one joint activity that we all need to implement. Otherwise, the bill provides for conditions and procedures, as well as obligations of legal and natural persons, relating to the production and transport of psychoactive controlled substances, possession, jobs of authorised laboratories, exports, imports and transit of psychoactive controlled substances. What I would particularly like to praise are the members of 4, 92 and 105 in the proposal for this law, because this law is a prerequisite for the establishment of a commission for psychoactive controlled substances, which represents an intersectoral commission between several ministries, which is the Ministry of Health, Education, Home Affairs, Labour and Social Policy, Defence, Youth and Sports, Culture, Justice, Agriculture and Veterans, Local Self-Government, as prominent experts. Because this is not a topic to be addressed only by the Ministry of Health and without joint work cannot produce certain results. Of course, in terms of what my colleague was talking about, in terms of decentralisation, Article 92 prescribes the establishment of a monitoring committee that is caused by the abuse of psychoactive controlled substances and the improvement of the state in local self-government, i.e. local environments. No one can know better what's going on in the local environment than those people who live and live there. No one can guess better what solutions are in certain situations than those of the people involved. Of course, this is one problem that affects all areas and from my modest experience with young people, I must say that when we openly discussed the use of psychoactive substances, there was no excessive interest. When we left the possibility that someone on the note would write the question, unfortunately, the questions were type: how much something costs and where it can be obtained, which is certainly an indication that there is an interest in using what is not allowed, which also shows another fact – that the illicit use of psychoactive substances has no limit and cannot be defined as being here and there is nowhere or in my midst there is no, it exists everywhere. I have to tell my colleagues, there's been a mental health bill mentioned, and this is one of the steps towards the adoption of the mental health law, and it's likely that this law will be in the process anytime soon. I thank you for your attention and again appeal to all my colleagues, both in parliament and colleagues at the local level, that only by working together can we lead to certain results when it comes to controlling the use of psychoactive substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48712	Four minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic, and after that, MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Time is available for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, I'm going to say again that I'm glad you're here, because I rarely see you. Since I have very little time left, I wouldn't elaborate all those laws. My colleagues have already spoken very extensively about the laws. I'd like to ask you a few questions and something concrete to say to Mr. Secretary. How long will we screw up the Health Care Act and bring new regulations every month to two days, or new additions? Are we able to already once, if we are unable to establish a valid law, Mr. Minister, then copy it from someone who did it right, get into Serbia's mother's terms and allow it to be valid for at least a year? I guess this is the fourth time we've talked about extending and adding new members to the Health Protection Act. What I was about to say is, it's about the Health Protection Act, that is, the distribution of health centers to a health center, a pharmacy and a general hospital. We're one of the two health centres mentioned that ended it, which is the Vrsac Health Center, two and a half years ago we split up by law enforcement and now we're in a situation that, in fact, we can't function. What I want the whole public to hear, and you, too, this law, which was implemented by force, that we have to divide, was not adequately followed by the fund, so that the health centres were able to get some extra income, that through the medicine work, through some educational, then systematic checks, etc., so that they could have the missing funds that the fund gave substitutes in this way. Now we're in a situation where the General Hospital in Vrsac is on the verge of bankruptcy, if I may say at the edge of the possibility of functioning. The first year we split up, the missing funds amounted to five million dinars, the second year eight million, and this year 15 million dinars currently missing for the operation of the General Hospital in Vrsac. Do you know what the number is? For a year, doctors don't get the means to work overtime and to get ready. So, they work for nothing, they work for humanity. The fund in no way wants to conclude a contract with the general hospital to make up for it. I'd like you to consider that. Secondly, we were in a situation, and what I said on the Health Committee, Mr. Perisic was familiar with the fact that we didn't know what to do with the blood we got from voluntary donors... (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. Can I finish my sentence? I was going to say that we were in a position to maybe throw away all the blood, because we don't have a chance to process and store blood elements.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48714	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, followed by MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48715	Indeed, only in Serbia is it possible that the budget is not in front of the MPs on 15 December and 16 December, as the government has not been able to agree until today on who needs to push, who to finish, with the historic elections of the current favorite DS vice presidents being completed. Maybe we should have waited for their outcome to put together a budget. The tendency of disenfranchisement, the mutilation of parliament reaches its culmination. Since we don't have a budget, we've been given amendments to two health laws and a whole new law, only to have something to entertain and participate in the spin doctor's plan, to buy time in the play "Waiting for the budget of Godo". To make things even more paradoxical, the principle of nes-cafe "three in one" has been applied again, so we will have nothing caused to have a united discussion. When this is added to the result of a chronological review of the health law, which parliament has a little bit of a debate, the question arises whether Serbia is a serious state or just a polygon for various experiments with legislation? We have new amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act almost every month, as if the ministry's or minister's position were constantly changing. In a previous parliamentary discussion on amendments to the Health Protection Act, the minister gave us a lecture on health system failures, which needs to be changed urgently to improve the health system and health care in Serbia. It would be really fine if it weren't for a five-term minister, almost nine-year-old, to a man who's been built up in all governments since the beginning of 2002. If it's not a multiple personality, it's really a question of who the minister's dealings with and whose bad decisions are changing and supplementing? If he promised us in 2005 that everyone in Serbia would be health insurance and in 2006 that Serbia would get professional chambers, what happened in the meantime? Did he fight with himself or don't trust himself, so just a little bit like something changes, on that old principle, that he doesn't think of a friend? If the minister were not only in conflict with himself, which would certainly have to concern us, he also shows that he is in conflict with the vast majority of his health workers and associates. The satisfaction of citizens with the quality of the health care system is better and not to talk. The Prime Minister, to point out something positive, managed to unite those who provide health services and those who use them, but in such a way that a dead race is more unsatisfactory. The health and social security union also wrote to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, I guess because the resolute minister is quite nervous and vindictive, saying that people have taken it quite seriously and responsibly that the economic crisis will make no profit increase, but when it turns out that the government does not have the same archeology for all actions, so some businesses, despite the economic crisis, are increasing income, are quite disappointed. If there's no money, there's no one. It is really inadmissible for employees in health and social activity to be demoted more than they are now, if that is possible at all. What are they supposed to do, say, nurses, who, with 33,000 dinars and extremely stressful jobs that make it impossible for them to do anything extra, don't even have a consumer basket? It is also unacceptable that money has not been allocated from the Republic's budget in recent years for those for whom health insurance should be paid by the government. According to data provided by the Republic Health Insurance Institute only last year, according to invoices for services provided to these persons, the budget was set aside by around 24 billion dinars, the government around 15, and ultimately nothing was paid. The burden of financing the health care of those persons is transferred to those who carry out their legal obligations, including those employed in health care, as one register covers the treatment of insurance workers, pays salaries to employees and covers the many needs of health institutions. It is a really good question – why are we practically the only country in Europe where the provision of primary healthcare services is exclusively a monopoly of long-overpassed forms of state health homes, while in most European countries over 80% of healthcare services provide private practice? Would not including private practice with all available resources and providing primary healthcare services necessarily increase both the availability and quality of these services? Wouldn't most doctors be stimulated in this way, so he could be constantly employed in private practice, not forced to make extra money in private practice, because his salary at the state institution is miserable. Not to mention the absence of choice for mandatory insurance, which not only cannot choose whether to be treated exclusively privately, but often do not have the opportunity to treat state, at least not in due time. With regard to this other proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Chambers, it is again possible to find that internal, ministerial conflict exists, but there is also conflict of external character, because there is conflict at the level of the majority and medical chambers. Dr Tatjana Radosavljevic, director of the Lek Chamber of Serbia, says – The proposal to amend the Law on Medical Chambers is interpreted by our legal team, the assembly and the board of directors as the most severe attack on the independence of the chambers. It states as controversial changes that the proposed act is directly mixed in the election process in chambers. If only one day late in the organ selection, the minister can intervene by forming a body composed of NGOs and associations, which in fact have nothing to do with the chamber system. It would then be an organisational committee that would take over the election process in chambers, which is a blow to independence. The health ministry cannot interfere with the selection of chambers, according to Mrs Radosavljevic. However, the health minister, Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, as the right empire fought back, said there was no talk of any impact on the independence of the chambers, but rather an urgent forced technical solution. The health ministry has assumed public authority to license dentists over the next 120 days, which was the work of the dental chamber, but they acted irresponsiblely in this chamber, the minister said. The emergency amendment of the Law on Medical Chambers is a brief, operational, technical move and solves the problem. In addition, the majority minister said it was all the fault of the Stomatology Chamber, which did not respect the law and did not select the organs, and all the deadlines passed, so this chamber was deprived of public authority within 120 days. The minister couldn't even dream, let alone assume, that when the law was passed in 2005 that such a situation would occur and that the dental chamber would be so long unprepared to hold elections for their own chamber and make work possible. The Minister therefore calls such behaviour a pest because serious things are compromised, the granting of a license for dentists, the adoption of legal powers concerning dental professions. In addition, the minister's explanation did not satisfy representatives of Serbia's Lek Chamber, which has 29,700 members. This issue is important for the public in Serbia, both for patients and doctors, because the chamber definitely needs to be independent of the Ministry of Health, because it is already independent of funding, since no dinar from the budget has ever entered the Medical Chamber of Serbia, but is maintained on its own. In this bill, it is enough that one day the chamber is late with the organ selection and that the health minister takes over the electoral process. This could practically happen to any chamber. It's not about the number of days and the tolerance of delays, it's defined how many days it takes to select individual organs, but this law actually interferes essentially in the principle of independence. Dr. Radosavljevic, director of the Serbian Medical Chamber, again cited. Now, as a true professor and pedagogogog, the minister of the council is angry and just, so he finds out – this law will apply to anyone who does not respect the regulations, has made the choice of the authorities, because this intervention of the state, since the dental chamber has violated the public interest. After such a statement, at the place of Minister Dacic, I would be seriously concerned, since the man who tried thoroughly in health has now shown that he has more determination and willingness to punish the bad. Maybe they could conspired. They'll have to cooperate very seriously when they apply the provisions of a new law on psychoactive controlled substances. As far as this new law is concerned, I have to admit it's one of the best laws that came out of the Ministry of Health's kitchen. Although already in the draft was more than correct and good quality, however, the minister kept it for almost a year in the drawer, probably as a spare player or a wildcard, which put all the shortcomings in previous laws on the other hand, especially the fact that the duration of these laws from the Ministry of Health was somewhat longer than the duration of long-term yogurt. Since the round table on the day of the fight against addiction has rightly found that there is a need for the adoption of a law on psychoactive controlled substances, as well as a law on the protection of mental health, why did you not put both laws on the agenda and that in an ununited debate? This is how one good bill of law is used as a mask for small doors to pass changes and supplement existing laws. To remind me, there are estimated to be between 30,000 and 100,000 addicts in Serbia of psychoactive substances, more than 70% of young people between 15 and 25 years of age were in contact with psychoactive substances. It is obvious that data indicate the need for new legal solutions, such as this bill on psychoactive controlled substances, especially because it would allow more advocates to be involved in some of the treatment programmes and to introduce new therapeutic approaches to the treatment of disease addiction. There is still a significant lack of understanding of society for the problems of addicts who are being released from everyday life, as well as the need to work more on their reintegration into social life. Instead of at least honoring the effort made by the team that made up this new bill, the majority minister decided, according to the test prescription, that the priority discipline of the spine, the conflict with the medical chambers and the punishment of the insubordination, at the cost that young people continue to write graphite – someone has put drugs in our heroin again. I don't know what's funny, Minister, are you using any psychoactive controlled substances or what is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48716	People's MPs, the time at your disposal has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48717	All right, just one sentence. What I want, Minister, to thank you for reminding me of the school age. We MPs now have the opportunity to smoke nicely in the snow at the door...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48718	The People's Messenger Nikola Lazic has the word, and after him is Dusanka Plecevic's folk letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have yet to see another set of health laws, which, as we have so far, are considered in the package, i.e. in a united debate. One legislative proposal is a completely new one, and two are amendments and additions to existing legislation, although one of them has been changed recently. I think it is necessary for health care as a system to be viewed as a whole and that healthcare is planned long-term and strategically, without any ad hoc moves from situation to situation. The amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act have been given the opportunity to adopt here recently. I think it was in November. The question arises – was it possible then to predict that in a month there would be a need for something like this again? However, at that time there was a word about the supplemental work of the doctor, which is a whole other topic, and now about something quite different, but if for nothing else, rationality is working, I think it should have been done, because it was already clear that the deadline of five years for taking over the primary health care facility by local self-government. In other words, according to the 2005 law, the founding rights should be brought down from the state level to the level of local self-government. Since this has not been done in a certain number of environments, it is logical that this proposal extends the deadline. Now the question arises – why and how many local self-governments were unable to complete the job? The reason is very simple – their budgets do not have the capacity and are unable to respond to this task. Given that the government, without respecting the Law on Local Self-Government, has significantly reduced the transfer funds to local self-government and up to 40%, it is clear. To remind you, transfers are practically the biggest source of income for local self-government. Such a move only strengthens and prolongs the crisis without saying when the effects of inflation and other negative effects are added. So the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities itself also warned the government of the execution of such decisions. Isn't that a key reason why local self-governments run away from taking over founding rights, and many will not be able to do so for many years. It seems to me exactly the opposite of the principles of decentralisation sworn by some of the parties sitting in government. We've had opportunities from new colleagues to hear how these amendments and additions of laws are actually one contribution to further decentralisation. I think it's exactly the opposite of showing up and this just intervenes in order to simply legislate the deadline for the acquisition of founding rights for health institutions. So the very idea of the 2005 law gets a different connotation and a different meaning when taking the general behaviour of the Serbian government towards local self-government. The second segment of the amendments and additions to this legislative proposal is the introduction now and formally through the law that the minister prescribes the level of compensation for the work of the members of the Commission for the passing of expert exams. Again, of course, things are centralizing. Several colleagues have quite justified in the current course of the discussion why it would not be possible to leave it to, say, the Serbian medical society or chambers, etc. Another thing about this legal proposal that can act banally is that the minister prescribes the appearance of an official suit for health inspectors. All right, it's that there's a kind of code and decent dress and if there's some special need to pay attention to it, but I think it's possible to regulate it by a kind of rule. Of course, I have no doubt that you will not abuse that provision, but perhaps someone in the future can think of uniforming health inspectors or, for example, introducing a certain kind of suit, a brand of suit that health inspectors should wear, etc. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Chamber Act, the basic law was also passed in 2005. It was a good way to restore the continuity of the principle of independent structural organisation in health after six decades. The objectives are very important and good, starting with promoting high standards in professional and ethical terms, improving knowledge, protecting the interests of professions etc. This, among other things, was to protect doctors from a kind of abuse for day-to-day political purposes, not to allow doctors to be one kind of a promotional montage in political settlements. In other words, chambers like. The esnafic organizations for the basic task should have to protect the profession and be completely out of the policy. These legal interventions show that this has failed until the end because otherwise we would not have any changes and additions to this law today. The reason for the examination of this law is that there is a problem in the work of the dental chamber, as the minister said – no one could foresee that in the dental chamber after the term of office no one would conduct new elections and establish organs, so it is also for the amendments to the law not to happen. Talking to fellow Members of the Health and Family Committee, I was under the impression that they were not sharing the same opinion with the minister. They state that the Committee itself has on several occasions demanded a reaction from the Ministry in terms of control in the chamber due to the problems that exist. Even one decision was made and directed to the Ministry. It was logical, if there are problems, to carry out surveillance, if there are certain irregularities and to determine that a new congregation is being called. So the board could have guessed, and now what's the consequence? The law is amended by introducing the principle that the ministry is entitled to form a kind of coercional administration of 11 members. Is that why you were waiting for the deadline to expire? So, only the chamber organization gets one kind of new meaning and new connotations, because, as the representatives of the Medical Chamber say, this violates the principle of independence and is official direct interference of the Ministry of Health in the election process in chambers. For example, the Medical Chamber has come up with an interesting initiative to define in the amendments and additions to this law certain things related to the organisation of education, therefore, that the process of organising education is entrusted to chambers to reduce corruption or to avoid the unpredictive influence of certain stakeholders, primarily from the world of the pharmaceutical industry, on doctors as regards the treatment they prescribe, etc. Such a model exists in neighbouring Macedonia. For example, there is no such thing as this amended bill. Generally, when similar things happen, doctors may wonder if they can trust the medical chambers that they will, as independent bodies, protect their interests and be deprived of their daily policies. Therefore, it is not surprising to have a low response to the elections for the management of the medical chambers. If I'm not mistaken, in Belgrade, as far as the doctor's chamber is concerned, the vote response was about 6% and at Serbia's level is about 13%. Is someone trying to politicize the work of chambers? Of course, one of the largest parties would not have had a key impact on the work of one chamber, and the other perhaps smaller party would have an impact on the work of another chamber. I think it's completely negatively affecting all the sense of chamber organization. Health opportunities also reflect the overall state of the country. We had the opportunity to hear the Minister of Health who said on television the day before yesterday that, for example, the Fund had met its debts to pharmacies by the month, and that after the budget rebalances that year, there was no money to pay for several reasons. One of the reasons is that there has been a halt, a suspension of payment from the budget of contributions for unemployed persons, i.e. persons without income, and that the number of those persons has increased in the last two years with a million and 800 000 for 300 000, to two million and 100,000 people who do not work. It has been stated that the health problem that implies the possibility of a gas shortage or some other medicines is not only a resolute problem, but that it is the responsibility of all other ministries, ministries of trade, the economy, as well as the entire government. Mr Minister, I fully agree with you on the conclusion that this government is responsible for the current state of affairs in the country, and therefore emergency parliamentary elections should be called as soon as possible. The bill on psychoactive controlled substances is a significant step forward, so that this area should be regulated in detail. This is the first official document related to this issue following an announcement signed by Josip Broz Tito in 1973 on the declaration of the Law on Ratification of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. It's this document. We read this bill carefully. We have written a series of amendments we expect you to accept, and we will discuss this in detail in detail. In the end, I was also asked by my colleagues at the Maxilofational Surgery Clinic to present one of their appeals regarding the whole of this issue. As you know, the Maxilofational Surgery Clinic, which works at the University of St. Mary's, filled the amount of money she received from the Fund in October. I think it's about 215 million dinars. Since there has been no funding of their activities since then, they have limited their activity to two operations a day. I have to say that's worrying because the Maxilofational Surgery Clinic is not just our most prestigious scientific and teaching center in the area. All the maxilofational surgeons in the state can really get the most relevant and best knowledge of their work. So, as a result of all this, many patients who should be taken care of at that clinic are also referred to the ORL clinic and oncology, and you know that there is no more invitation clinic for surgery of the tumor of the Maxilofational region than this clinic itself. After all, I think this question should be resolved as soon as possible, it's a very old clinic and I don't want to go into modality so that it can be solved? Whether she would have been given the status of an institution, a hospital of national importance or a different way, but I think this question should be entertained.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48720	Thirteen minutes and 45 seconds used by the MPs' group. National MP Simo Vukovic wants a replica as deputy chairman of the Health Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48721	So, Mr. Lazic, it seems to me that you are partly in possession of the facts relating to the work of the Health and Family Committee. The Committee did discuss the situation in Lekarska and the dental chamber, we adopted a kind of invitation to the ministry to carry out administrative control over the work of the chambers and there you ended up with facts, skipping what was happening in the further part of our work. The ministry did exercise control over the work of the chamber, the Committee reported, the ministry's representative was on the board, that the deadlines for the term of office and what should be followed as a reaction to the ministry, that is simply circumstances, I pointed out, and in previous statements that very often the decisions and work of the Health and Family Committee itself are completely wrong or perhaps maliciously interpreted. This is about the fact that the Committee is working. I'd like to add a few more things. I think it's about decentralisation. I believe you've looked back on my exposure. The amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act as regards the extension of the deadline for the separation of health centres is not a halting of the decentralisation process, but we are actually creating an ambience for this process to be completed finally, because if we did not, then we would have brought health centres in such a way that they could not operate and be financed. Either you don't understand that fact or you deliberately skip it. What also seems to me that you don't see the best way...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48722	It's been used for two minutes, time for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48723	Can I use the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48724	No, I don't. You're only entitled to a replica. National MP Nikola Lazic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48725	I think you, Mr. Vukovic, told us the fact that yesterday and the day before yesterday may be snowing in Belgrade. You didn't say anything new about what I pointed out. I pointed out that the minister said that he could not predict that this kind of problem would occur in the dental chamber and that there would be no one to call and organise the assembly, because the actual deadline would expire. That's what I realized. On the other hand, I realized that people in the Health Committee were dealing with this issue and that we were constantly reminding the ministry that this kind of problem exists. I don't know if you're leading the Stenographic Note Health Committee, but many of the colleagues who are here, and I believe they're not lying, have pointed out that. That's one thing. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I have just pointed out that the abolished transfer funds to local self-government have had a significant impact on their budgets and they are simply not in certain municipalities able to take over the founding rights for primary health institutions. It's a simple fact. You said nothing else but a new one, and in the end, I did not look back on your exposure, but on your colleague's exposure. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48726	Right on line, Mr. Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48727	This is almost one schizophrenic situation, and in my presentation as an authorised spokeswoman, there is a constant urgency that we are all fighting together for the independence of the chambers, and constantly respecting the ministry for why it does not intervene. So the executive's hand should be in the chamber all the time. You know, it's two irreconcilable demands. It seems to me that just now the ministry, with a measure of one measure as executive power, has been acting on the airlocks. The situation will be fully resolved by adopting these amendments and by supplementing the law. You have to resolve what you want – whether an independent chamber or you want a chamber in which the ministry will actually have one permanent influence? Please, because you mentioned the politicization of chambers, to say it clearly and openly – which members of the parties are the officials of these chambers, because I belong to the ruling coalition as well as my party, so be open and say it openly. I'll be the first opponent of anyone on the political line coming to the head of the chamber.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48728	National MP Nikola Lazic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48729	I think today's legislative proposal and your presentation show how much you stand for the independence of the work of the chambers. What you didn't understand, I suppose, from my discussion you had the need to and to react, is that I said that the Health Committee asked the Ministry of Health to comply with the Chamber Act, which is his legal authority, to supervise the legality of the work of the chamber, not to interfere in the work of the chamber. If there were any illegal activities, simply do it. That, of course, continues to produce all other conconsequences. As I said, I think these amendments today and the amendments to the law are quite enough to say how much the ministry wants to involve itself in the work of chambers and in what way, and that is clear and said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48730	The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević. After her, MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Before I give you my word, based on Article 90, just one notice. Our wish today was to try to complete the debate on a joint principled search of the proposals of the law at issue. 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda and, then, by extending the work and after 1800 hours, we are also discussing other points of the agenda, i.e. the draft laws confirming laws, contracts and the like, which would be possible only if the Government informs us that there is a government representative who would be attending the debate on the agenda points following this joint principled search. Since that didn't happen, today we'll only be doing this joint principle search on the proposals of the law in point. 2, 3rd and 4th agenda. There is a possibility that in this case we can work without a break, which I cannot decide for myself, because it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the MPs are... . People's MPs are getting it. I refer you to article 87, where it is said that during the working day you must give one break for up to one hour. If I don't set a break, it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This notice is because the time that is more or less at our disposal, approximately, for this point is 90 minutes. My proposal was that, in that case, if no one wanted to raise the Rules of Procedure and oppose it, we would work without a break, so that the MPs who traveled further could arrive. If I see any Rules of Procedure, there'll be a break at 1400 hours. In that case, I'm setting a break and we'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first in the debate will be Dušanka Plečević's folk letter. After that, MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Thank you. People's MPs are getting it. ) I speak slowly enough and sufficiently loudly, that if you have ever read the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to follow. I said if I heard one of the Rules of Procedure... I just don't know how long you've been listening to the word of an MP. ) The People’s Parliament of the Faith of Radeta said that she insists on taking a break and that is her right. Now we have a break. I don't think it's hard to follow, I'm talking pretty loud. Since when have I heard the word of the Messenger? I always will. National MP Zoran Krasic wants me to repeat it once more. I think he understood this, just pretend he didn't understand. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing to work in the afternoon section on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. Before I give my word to the first reported MP Dusanka Plecevic, after which, the MP Milan Dimitrijevic will speak, with an apology for the notice that we had made before the break, the notice on the basis of Article 90(2), and on the basis of Article 87, that the Government had sent information to the National Assembly that the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government Milan Marković had been designated and the proposal for a law confirming the Framework Treaty on Loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on Social Security and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Athens Conference on the Transport of Travelers and their luggage of the Sea, adopted in 1974 and the 2002 Protocol on the amendments to the Athens Convention on the transport of passengers and their luggage in 1974. A year. With prior notice, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has informed us that Minister Milan Markovic, the government's representative of all points of the agenda, and after the discussion of the joint principled search, which is currently under way, will continue to open a joint single search on proposals for agenda points following 4, which means that we will be working after 1800 hours today. The word has a folk letter from Dusanka Plecevic, followed by a folk envoy Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about a month and a half ago, we discussed amendments to the Health Protection Act here, and today on the agenda, we have again a bill on amendments and additions to the same law. At that time, we discussed additional work in the health care sector, and today the changes relating to the passing of a professional exam after a doctoral training, to obtaining a primaryia, to the supervision of the work of health care institutions, and to the health inspector and his official suit that he is wearing while conducting inspection supervision and the takeover of the founding rights of local self-government to health homes, where the deadline extends to another three years. These changes notice one common thread that combines them, and these are the financial assets that are derived from these changes. It is not surprising, therefore, that the amendment bill was sent to the assembly procedure at the time when the 2011 budget should be adopted, where additional appropriations should be provided in the budget. The inability of the resolution ministry to make a comprehensive reform of the healthcare system is seen as being subject to frequent amendments and additions to the existing law, of which citizens, healthcare users, have little use. As regards this law, I would refer only to what the MPs who make up the ruling majority said to the Health Committee when we discussed this law which was addressed by an emergency procedure, which concerns Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law relating to Article 266. The health care law. This article shall be replaced by a period of five years with a period of eight years, when the separation of primary health care from secondary and tertiary rights to those institutions is to be carried out. It is then said that opposition MPs do not understand the arguments, that the urgency of the adoption of this law lies in the fact that on 10 December of this year, the legal deadline for the separation of health centres expires, and after that period of health institutions would be disabled in their business, in the sense of conclusion of a contract with the Republic Health Insurance Office, which includes the problems of receiving salaries and functioning. Since the proposal for amendments and additions is not included in the agenda by emergency procedure at the previous session, but in the ordinary procedure, suddenly the reasons for the urgency of adoption of this law have been mentioned. Is December 10th the deadline until which work was to be done on the separation of health centres, such a stretching date, that it is on December 20th or 25th? What's going on in the meantime, when it's past December 10th? How do contracts with the Republic Health Insurance Institute end and will there be health pay? This government can no longer surprise me, nor can it violate its own laws, even if December 10th is not exactly December 10th. Who says health institutions can't close contracts with the Republic Health Insurance Institute after that? Besides, there's 126 votes for it. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law did not get a majority on the Committee on Health and Family and no decision was made on this law when it was discussed on the Committee. On the agenda, we also have an addition to the Health Workers' Chamber Act. No consultants participated in these amendments, as explained in both amendments to the amendment and supplement laws. As a result, we have the disdain and protest of professional associations, and some of these remarks have also been heard by representatives of individual health workers on the Committee on Health and Family, primarily from representatives of the Association of Private Doctors and from representatives of the Medical Chamber. The medical chamber sent a letter to the Health and Family Committee expressing the deepest protest on how to propose and the content of the law supplementing the Health Workers’ Chambers Act. The protest goes on to say that the Medical Chamber has not been consulted on the additions of the Law on the chambers of health workers, contrary to Article 8 paragraph 8. Health care workers' chambers laws. Also, this chamber indicates the illegality and unconstitutional nature of Article 1. The draft law, and in relation to Article 27b, which states - if no new Chamber Assembly assembly is established by the end of the term of office, the Minister responsible for Health Affairs, no later than 15 days from the date of the end of the term of office of members of the Chamber Assembly, on the proposal of the Serbian Doctoral Society and the existing associations of health workers, shall be appointed by the Board of Elections for members of the Chamber Assembly, i.e. the establishment of a chamber by representatives of the relevant chambers, etc. So, the board is being established as a bypass, as the minister said. The health care workers' chambers shall be established as independent professional organisations, as referred to in Article 1. The health care workers' laws, and such a proposal to supplement the existing law in the doctor's chamber, see as an attempt to extend the health minister's competence and the Serbian doctor's society. With the proposed solution, the minister and the Serbian Doctor's Society have the most influence in proposing members of the election committee for members of the chamber assembly. We in the Serbian Radical Party believe that these changes give too much authority to a minister who does not belong to him, as it is an organisation that is by definition independent and professional. Unfortunately, this way the minister wonders about everything, so only one logical conclusion can be drawn from the above, which is that the health workers' chambers are not independent or autonomous. As far as the amendments to the laws on health care workers' chambers are concerned, they have been extorted, since the Ministry of Health was unable to solve problems in the work of a health chamber for four years, which is a dental chamber, although it has control mechanisms to monitor the legality of its work. It is an inappropriately long period of time during which illicit activities took place in the chamber, and this was introduced to the Ministry of Health, without it taking appropriate measures, but at the very beginning of illegal activities. When things go so far as to be unable to control and sanction illegal activities, the ministry reaches for these changes after an emergency procedure, so after four years, that the work of chambers, primarily dentally, is unblocked, and that the adverse consequences of the system are removed, as we heard from the health ministry's representatives at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family. These changes practically reconstitute the chambers of health workers already established four years ago, instead of introducing administrative control over a non-functioning chamber. Changes will not solve the problems that exist in other chambers, such as the question of the legitimacy of congregation decisions, since a percentage of the few members participate in its work, then the management of finances, abuses in the conduct of disciplinary proceedings before courts of honor, the existence of stakeholders and others. The Health and Family Committee and its members received various memos from certain members of the Chamber of Commerce, which pointed to some illegal activities, from the challenge of the election of the directors of the chamber, through the illegal convocation of the Assembly, which had amended the statutes by illegally transferring public powers to the central chamber and to some illegal financial actions. The Health and Family Committee discussed all these memos, failing to proceed with arbitration because it is not a jurisdiction, it concluded that all allegations and objections must be examined, sent them to the Ministry of Health to monitor the legality of the work of the chamber together with the Ministry of Finance, which controls and controls the legality of the management of the chambers' finances. Comments on the work of chambers to the Ministry of Health also referred to the dental section of the University of Vojvodina Doctors, the Serbian Doctor's Society, for example, since the constitution of the chamber itself, and was concerned about the passivity of the ministry on the obvious violation of the law. In the end, the Ministry of Health took over the management of this chamber, under the authority of the State Administration Act. The proposal is intended to allow these changes to continue to operate through the formation of the electoral process, the creation of conditions for the uniform operation of chambers, etc., as explained. The deadlines for the electoral procedure are given in Article 27b, but not in Article 27v concerning the part where the Committee is authorised to conduct an electoral procedure, appointed by the Minister of Health, and after two unsuccessful election cycles appointed by the Executive Director of the Chamber, as well as the provisional Management Board of the Chamber. They're running errands until the final selection of chamber organs, and we still don't know how long. The reason why all these amendments to the law are adopted by an emergency procedure is, you say, to remove the harmful consequences that could occur under the health care system. Indeed, it has taken four years since certain problems occurred to detect defects that prevent the normal functioning of the chambers. We can expect that some other more or less important problems that are not so urgent can wait for their resolution for, for example, eight years. This tells us that the Ministry of Health does not have adequate timely answers through the laws it proposes and that it does not respect the proposals the opposition makes through amendments in the adoption of certain laws. The third law we are discussing today in the context of a united debate is the draft law on psychoactive controlled substances, which is adopted by emergency procedure and without the involvement of consultants in the making of regulations and their opinion on compliance. This concludes that the law is just copied and translated from an EU country. The reasons for the urgent adoption of the law lie in the EU questionnaire which you must fill by February next year, not as it stands in the light of the reasons for the urgent procedure, which is because of the urgent application of the provisions of this law, and of course all in order to harmonise the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules. We are passing all system laws by emergency procedure, which is not a practice in the parliaments of European countries. That's why you can't have quality discussions about this law. Compared to the substance law used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, which was adopted in 2005 and which is in force, the proposal for this law is more extensive in the work concerning the classification of psychoactive substances, and you have placed them in seven lists, while previously had three categories of psychoactive substances, and in the part relating to legal persons dealing with the production and traffic of psychoactive controlled substances, the part on plant cultivation where psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained, as well as the part where criminal provisions are. In addition to all these, there is also a need to add to equating the monitoring methodology with those from the EU. The law that regulates this matter should be comprehensive, because it is about substances whose use, or abuse, has far-reaching negative consequences, not just for the individual, but for society in general. However, with us, as a rule, problems arise in the application of the law, not in changing them. This law regulates the production and application of psychoactive substances, i.e. substances that are introduced into the organism, act on the nervous system, attaching to certain receptors in the brain, modifying one or more functions and causing changes in behavior, creating psychic and physical addiction. Whether it's a substance from an opiate group, then hallucinogenic cannaboids, inhaleds or social drugs, the danger of their abuse is unpredictable. This does not apply to the use of substances for therapeutic purposes, although some of them are forbidden to be used for these purposes in some countries, such as methadone, synthetic drugs used in drug treatment, but is nevertheless a drug that creates methadone addiction and causes more severe metabolic damage to the body than heroin. It's a matter of powerful pharmacobusiness and pharmacologicality. Much more dangerous is the use of these substances, which serve as a tool for changing the mind through ritual and spiritual activities with the aim of weakening motivation for any positive social action. Narco-business money obtained by illegal production and drug trafficking goes to the so-called. black funds and funding of secret projects and secret operations of secret services, although all such activities are prohibited in all countries of the world. However, all drug dealers outside the system are severely punished, drug dealers are used to fund terrorism, covert coups, and so on. The plus revolutions. In light of the bill's proposal, you stated that four large illegal laboratories for the production of synthetic drugs were discovered in Serbia in the previous period, with a large amount of psychoactive substances seized. Also, information is being spread through the regimeal media on the successful arrests of drug dealers, largely dismissed from organised drug trafficking. I could commend the abovementioned actions by the police and authorities in general if with the same determination and energy required by the Hague indictees were arrested by the chiefs, drug lords who are certainly not among the arrested small drug dealers. However, you are untouchable, useful to every regime. An example of Saric's drug clan, which had been in the illegal drug business for years, gained a huge profit of several billion euros, and the state authorities turned their heads and only after he had broken off control and disturbed his bosses in public were his criminal activities revealed. What is defeated for power in Serbia is that drug trafficking is in these quantities or substances of plants from which drugs can be obtained in illegal laboratories easier to detect than four illegal laboratories for the production of psychoactive substances. Programme activities to prevent treatment and reduce the demand for psychoactive substances include reducing the demand for these substances beyond a number of measures aimed at reducing the number of drug users, reducing the social and health consequences, using the same and helping to reintegrate former addicts into society, you say in Article 70. This, however, is achieved best and most effectively by the total suppression of all these criminal activities that I have listed. Obviously, there is no will of the state authorities to the team, of course, because of the income they bring. The illegal production, transport and use of psychoactive controlled substances, as well as the delivery of psychoactive controlled substances and plants from which psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained is prohibited by the regulations governing criminal offences, according to Article 5. It's a bill of law. The inspection supervision in this law covers the supervision of a legal person authorised by the Ministry of Production and Transport of Psychoactive Controlled Substances. The inspector in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, under this proposal for a law, may take other measures and actions under the rights and duties laid down by the special law, Article 96(3). That's not controversial. What is contentious for us is that the inspector performs surveillance tasks in the prescribed official suit, whose appearance is prescribed by the minister. The same Article of Item 5. Does the official suit mean uniform? Of course, I don't mean working uniforms. Official suits, or uniforms, have military, civilian police, financial and latest municipal police. Are there any other police involved? Is this Serbia, besides being a country of basketball and tennis, becoming a police country? What kind of official suit is prescribed in which the inspector will examine the facilities, plants, devices, equipment, take samples of psychoactive substances for examination and physical-chemical identification. That's what's unclear in this bill. The transitional and final provisions of Article 115 say that the rules for the implementation of this law will be adopted within 18 months, and by that time the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this law will apply. It is also said in Article 114 that the health ministry inspection is required to carry out inspection controls within two years of the date of entry into force of this law and to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the production, that is, the operation of the authorised laboratory. This is contrary to the position of the legislators of this law given in the light of the reasons for the law being passed by an urgent procedure, which is the more urgent application of this law. This is another set of contradictions that we face when we consider draft laws that come into our congregation debate, where laws are passed by emergency procedure, and regulations and application in two or more years. The only conclusion that can be drawn from this is that there are no conditions, material and other, for their application, which is why we have frequent changes and additions, but rather they are being made towards EU membership which is, you will admit, very, very far and hazy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48733	Twenty minutes and 45 seconds of time spent by the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. There are 10 minutes available to the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48734	Mr. Secretary of State, since Mr. Minister is gone, ladies and gentlemen the MPs in the first part of my presentation I spoke about some general problems and not solving these problems related to Serbia's health system. Now it's time to say something about amendments and additions to these two laws. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, we had recent amendments and additions to that law. At the time, we were involved in the addition work of health workers and health associates. Then we told you that such an amendment to the Health Protection Act opens the door to corruption in health care. We asked why the extra work was done. Is the system overloaded, so it cannot meet the demands and needs of the population? If the system is overloaded, why isn't the private sector involved in the system. We never got a valid answer. Today we are again discussing amendments to the Health Protection Act and it is very interesting what is proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law. The extension of the deadline by another three years for the acquisition of founding rights and other competences of local self-government. Was the Health Protection Act, which was on the agenda some time ago, the danger of overcoming that period of five years? Yes, it is. Was it supposed to be changed at that point? Sure. Why not? Because it's probably because the law enforcement guy doesn't read the law, because if he reads it, he'd know it a month and a half ago when we were working on an amendment to the Health Protection Act. Then he would approach amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. Is that just a reason for not reading and not implementing the law? I doubt it. There seems to be something else here. The G17 management staff should be maintained at health centres for the next three years. 'The third type of problem is related to the material state of local self-government. This government may in any way deny the transfer of funds to local self-government budgets, asphyxiating the development of these local self-governments. It also suppresses the fluids of democratic progress. Are the reduced transfer funds by local self-government? They did. For what? Because of the deficit in the budget. Who created the deficit in the budget? An irresponsible government. Why do citizens today live badly in Serbia? Because of the irresponsible government. Why is the number of poor growing in Serbia today? Because of the irresponsible government. Who promised new jobs, so he didn't do it? An irresponsible government. Who promised a thousand euros in free stock? An irresponsible government. Who today criticises the EU for corruption? An irresponsible government. That is why corruption in Serbia today is the main problem because of the irresponsible government. Instead of dealing with serious problems and working on a new health care law, you are dealing with ad hoc changes that do not solve the problem. They're just making it complicated. You haven't solved the problem of the dental chamber, and this problem has been present for at least two and a half years. There were problems at the beginning. Several times, the Health and Family Committee warned the Ministry of Health. You and your associates put it off, pushed it under the carpet, did you maybe protect someone? We don't know that right now. There was an irregularity at the beginning of the work. The Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government called about the illegality of the Stomatology Chamber seal, and you didn't speak then. You were talking about the independence of the chamber. How? How is it that at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family then the director, the already non-existent dental chamber, says that at the assembly of the dental chamber there was an assistant minister who was not, by the way, a doctor who received a convincing answer not to mention it at all on the Health Committee? One such detail speaks from the beginning that it is not set properly. Instead of the minister reacting immediately, he drags the problem away, doesn't solve it until the legal time is up. Then he finds a Solomonian solution to the amendments and additions to the Chamber Act. What does the medical chamber say on such an amendment and addition to the law? Does he have any objections? There are serious ones. He's speaking to the public and requesting a reception with the President of the Republic, with the Prime Minister. Why? For usurping the government. That's what they're telling you, and that's what we're telling you. Here, it's all a few examples that clearly indicate what produces inaction, irresponsibility and failure to do the job he's been entrusted with. The law, since there is no minister, I address you Mr. Secretary of State, is being brought in to arrange relations in society, in associations. Laws are also passed to prevent individual self-will. But when an individual is older than the law, then it's a sure sign that the state is slipping into totalitarianism. That's recognizable and clear at the moment. It's a state of health in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48735	Seven minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. It's available for two minutes and 40 seconds. National MP Simo Vukovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48736	Mr. Dimitrievich, you have explicitly said here that this law is being passed in order to preserve the G17 staff plus in health institutions. I don't know if I've really interpreted it. So let's talk about it openly then. Where are our shots? Tell me, who are these people? An urban legend has already been created, a myth about how G 17 has practically been deployed throughout the country. Let's talk about names. What kind of directors are these? What health centers? We will say who our members are, we will be very happy to answer, because it is about respectable people and we are very proud of them. But we've never experienced politics, especially health policy, as some kind of party prey, and don't pay any respects to us. Perhaps you in your party have such a view of health care, that you share cakes in health care facilities, but we've never done that before. I think if it's something like the legacy of Tomica Milosavljevic's mandate, it's an attempt to depolite health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48737	Right on line, MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48738	Mr. Vukovic, something that is recognizable throughout Serbia, something about which the press is buzzing in Serbia, speaks clearly enough who manages health care in Serbia. I won't answer that, you can see it in the daily press. You can go to any site, so you'll recognize it very clearly. It is a real picture of the situation in Serbia as far as health is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48739	National MP Simo Vukovic has been reported. Do you want a replica? No, I don't. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljević has a word, and after him the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48740	Dear gentlemen, in this set of laws, I'm going to commit a little more to the law on psychoactive substances, and I'm not going to say much of the professional part, I'm going to leave it to my colleagues, but I'm going to talk a little bit more about this environment of law-making and everything that surrounds us about working in the Assembly, or the law of emergency procedure that the government has been giving us for the last year and a half days. We are also talking about this law and these laws as if for the first time we are facing this problem, that is, the drug problem in Serbia. So, and this law by emergency procedure, the bill on psychoactive controlled substances is a very serious law from which two other laws or two regulations come out, as you said at the meeting yesterday, and one of those regulations will be passed by the end of the year. I wonder, this law is made by an emergency procedure, these two laws or regulations will be passed by the end of the year, given that today is December 16th, do we have time to review another law quickly and make some decisions quickly and to make some amendments in order to improve these legal solutions? I really don't see why it's so fast. I simply don't understand why you're making it difficult for us to work, why you're taking away our rights and our obligation to do better. All of this, of course, has something to do with the next one. The current minister has been minister for almost a decade, his secretary also for a decade. Although yesterday we couldn't attend a session of the Health and Family Committee to determine just how long the minister was in the Ministry of Health, I said for seven or eight years, and some colleagues began to get eight or nine, so we're a little in the dark. It's more like despotism. And this is exactly what I'm saying because of the next one. After 10 years of your work at the Ministry, we are just now getting some bill on psychoactive substances, its regulation, production, allowed and illicit substances, etc. So we are really coming into a situation that we are more than confused, as if this problem has not existed in Serbia for the last 40 years, but has happened in the last two or three years. Again, in order to discuss the topic of narcotics, we need to know, i.e. to monitor their production, i.e. the substances where they are produced, in larger quantities, the rate of adaptation and drug-markets, or drug dealers, and these people who are addicts and, of course, ultimately prevention and treatment. Because if we didn't follow it all, we couldn't come up with valid legal solutions that we'd try to improve through the amendments. Any country, including the most developed and well-intentioned, no matter how fast it works to solve this problem, is always late, because this is a problem that is very quickly transformed and creates a large number of victims. Where are we? We don't even know how many drug addicts are in Serbia right now. According to some semi-official information, the numbers range from 130,000 to 200,000, and we only have 5,000 in treatment. From 130,000 to 200,000 is the number of 70,000, and that's an entire army, almost numerous states of the former SRJ, and we're just 5,000 people we've accepted for treatment. Does it not seem to you that this is a great proportion in the number of those who need help and those who have turned to for treatment? So the state is very late, needs are growing, so certain local self-governments and some institutions in Serbia are starting to self-organise. Of course, they organize to help drug addicts and their families. With fewer gaps, there are really some serious results, positive serious results. Although, I would like that area to be regulated and those institutions to be introduced into a system, even if it is for the help of a financial one to be provided, even professional ones, in order to better start a job, and they started self-organising even ten years ago. So these are all questions that we, even if we were to deal with, we would approach this law as best as possible, and not at any cost by emergency procedure. What could healthcare do this much more, given the state of it? Here's the affair these days. There's no gauze information. It's just amazing. It's like we're in a state of war. There's no gauze. The answer came in saying there was no gauze because there were huge floods in Pakistan and India, so this year's cotton production in those countries collapsed. Again, on the other hand, information from the field or at least another ministry that needs to deal with this problem, the police ministry, says there has been an increase in the flow or supply of narcotics to Serbia, because the production of raw materials in Afghanistan has increased. It now turns out that Serbia is in Central Asia, as if we are bordering Pakistan, India and Afghanistan, and therefore we have no gauze in Serbia's hospitals. We just heard from colleagues here, after these reforms or reforms of yours in an attempt, how much trouble we have to preserve some of the basic raw materials needed for operations, such as blood used in transfusions during operations. Indeed, it is hard for us to meet one of the goals, which is to balance the uncontrollable use and control and prevention of narcotics. After 40 years of a certain problem in Serbia with drug abuse and the spread of these psychoactive substances, we are now in a position to spread a network of laboratories to detect these psychoactive substances. What have we been doing for the past 40 years or the past 10 years? I understand your good intentions that you want to sort out a certain problem and don't take this so personally, but we're really late, because the number of people involved in that network and their families is 200,000 junkies, but that's 200,000 families times three members. Are we dealing with these problems? Hardly. I doubt this law will, too, be good to have it on paper, but since it is known in the state of Serbia that we are not implementing the laws very well, I doubt we will be able to implement this law too. Of course, you should have more co-operation with other ministries, as I said earlier, both the Ministry of Police and the Department of Justice. How is it possible that some junkie only in a third, fourth, or drug dealer only in a third, fourth sentence gets a couple of years in prison, and there some kids who throw some stone at the police get in the process by emergency procedure and get dragon sentences? So in that strategy you have to have a little bit more cooperation between the ministries, a little better arrangements and, of course, law enforcement, because it's no problem that we bring these dead letters on paper, and that the figures tell us something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48741	Eight minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48742	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, I'm sorry there is no minister here, where he went I don't know, but it's his turn to sit here, because when he's exposed to the area he runs, that is, the resort, he should be in front of the MPs and answer certain questions and any objections. When it comes to amending the Health Protection Act and amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, I must say that these amendments and additions absolutely do not improve the health status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, the state of health in Serbia from the Romans to today was not worse. The resolution ministry does not take adequate and adequate measures to provide assistance to troubled citizens and to have the mercy to provide them with timely medical services and all that they need. What are the citizens of Serbia interested, gentlemen, in which dressing room will the health inspectors wear? That doesn't interest the citizens of Serbia. That's not their problem. Their problem is when they get sick and come to a health care facility and wait all day for one prescription, and the Serbian Ministry of Health has introduced such an administration that the Pentagon does not have such administration and protocols that this ministry in this system has prescribed – that doctors must lose an hour in an ordinary form, and that the citizen is waiting, suffering and suffering from pain, and for days it cannot come to order, not even to review. We're wasting valuable time here. Instead of talking about improving the health status of citizens and how health institutions will be more efficient, rational and economical, we are talking about putting one law in the procedure before the National Assembly, to entertain this people to pass a professional exam of the primarius. This could have been regulated in the previous law, without these supplements. So it was wrong here and it was a waste of time. You've got a little bit of effect here. When it comes to medical chambers, the situation is catastrophic. There is no responsibility and that institution, which should be an institution that will introduce order in health care, which will affect who will be licensed to be a doctor, who is a primaryist, who is an academic, who is a professor. You don't have any results in that part. Did one of the doctors, who, by his ignorance or inexperience or negligence in Serbia, answer fairly, and even for the deadly consequences, if you have one case that one doctor was convicted of providing the wrong service, because he did not give the citizen instructions to go, say, from Panchev to Belgrade to be treated, to die because he was not given adequate medical help. I don't have any case in court practice where a doctor is convicted of unwittingly carrying out his duty and having severe consequences for the citizen. Let me remind you of that folk: "The crows don't take their eyes out." When one of the doctors comes to answer because of the fatalities or severe bodily injury or disability, what happens? Doctors come to be experts, and when experts, dentists, surgeons, neuropsychologists, and not to list all these professions and specificities, they say – it's not the doctor's fault. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to providing health care, gentlemen of the Ministry, why haven't you solved the question why women from Vojvodina can't be treated in Belgrade? Why were there 170 births in 2009 as emergencies? Not women who were born got paid through branches in Pancheva and Vrsec. It took 170 women to pay 56,000 dinars. Madam Chairman, and also the ministry's gentlemen, I have to say that there is one problem, I would call that two-state, and some misunderstandings, are not well-organised relations between the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health of Vojvodina and branches on the ground. Whenever you have a problem in South Banat, they say – when a request to be treated in Belgrade is rejected, namely a doctor to come to the health commission of the branch, that commission in Panchev needs to be disbanded urgently, and to investigate cases of criminal liability due to abuse of the official position. Mr. Cimesha has taken appropriate measures on his part last year, but I see he's taking the blame now on Belgrade, now on Panchevo, now on Novi Sad. That's a question you need to resolve. I believe and expect that you will resolve the Commission of the Health Insurance and Protection Office in Panchev because it has misused its position in that it has not given citizens and has not given them the right, given by the Constitution and the laws, to be treated outside the Pancheva branches. I asked a parliamentary question and got an answer to it, where the Deputy Prime Minister gives me the right and says that even under the Health Insurance Act and the Regulation on how to exercise the right of compulsory health insurance is not denied the right of the citizens of Panchev to be treated outside Pancheva. Gentlemen of the Ministry, do you really listen to this, and it's been a year since I asked that question. Serbia's Health Insurance Fund director has already intervened on this issue. Now I only ask Mr Cimesh, as the MP and the doctor, who runs the Health Department, to resolve this issue with Belgrade with Panchev. I draw attention, gentlemen of the Ministry, to this fact, when citizens come to haemodialysis, who suffer from cancer, as severe patients, in Belgrade to be told at the Oncology Institute – go to Novi Sad, you have at the Vojvodina Institute for Oncology, so treat yourself there. So no one else can play with the health of our fellow citizens, no one. Someone here is responsible. I expect, since it is 15 km of Panchevo from Belgrade, and the law stipulates that 45 km of citizens have the right to choose a branch and a doctor, gentlemen of the ministry, read the provision of Article 29, do not bypass it, the Health Protection Act – each patient has the right to have a free choice of doctors of medicine, i.e. dentists and medical institutions, i.e. free choice of different medical procedures, in accordance with the law. Wait, who gives the right to someone from a branch not to be treated if he wants to be treated, say, in Kragujevac or in Novi Sad? Should the one from Vrsec or the one from Smederev make it impossible for the citizens what they guarantee is the Constitution and the law? No one has a right to do that. Gentlemen of the ministry, I repeat, from the Romans to today's above ministry, as regards efficiency, integrity and economics, Serbia did not have, and if you do not take appropriate measures to arrange the situation, to respond to those who work on these jobs, to monitor, please, gentlemen, refer your health inspection to the Pancheva hospital and to the internal department. I can't. It's not polite to say what the department looks like. Can you imagine having a 1914 blanket from World War I or an iron bed from that period? Let's not talk about drugs. You can, gentlemen, see one thing, Madam Chairman, I've counted on one utility of 80 ercondishans, and at the hospital, I've got an answer, there's only seven, and there are the most difficult patients who die of heat in the summer days, who are suffering and sick anyway. Secondly, inspection supervision of medical personnel, which is so important that it is more important even than doctors, and from primarius, and from doctors and academics, is no relation to citizens, precisely by medical staff. We're betting that the medical staff has the right salary, too. There's something else, gentlemen of the ministry, you're burdening yourself, you're responding, and you're doing something very calculated out of material interests, you're working for benefits. How do you do that out of use? Here's how – doctors who work at the hospital, in specialist tertiary facilities or secondary hospitals say – we don't have that medicine and today we can't examine you here on ultrasound or x-ray, but come in here this afternoon and in this private office, I'll provide you with a review. When a citizen goes there, that doctor's waiting for him, because he works at that private facility this afternoon. You have no conflict of interest. That law needs to be changed, gentlemen. Why? So there won't be a gig and there won't be any corruption. There is no cure to be prescribed to the prescription, and when you go to the pharmacy they say – there is a private pharmacy, there is no state pharmacy. Secondly, the list of medicines citizens pay is high prices of medicines, and poor, distressed citizens pay, especially those who do not have adequate personal income and income, are tortured, have nothing to buy medicine from, because they are removed from the mandatory social and health insurance particular medicines. Gentlemen, you're in a bad state of health. If I were a minister, I'd run away tomorrow, I'd leave the ministry in this condition. Put inspections on the ground, ask the citizens, and you'll see what happens, what results you'll get. So I ask you, gentlemen of the ministry, Mr. Cimeshu, please, I believe that he will make every effort, that the matter be instructed and verified by the instructions and sending out the patients of Panchev, because there was a commission that saw itself, who decided, burning and burning and deciding both on life and death. Let's stop it, and hopefully this will have to change and that citizens have the proper health care. There is corruption in health care. She's bypassing. Just go ahead, watch him look at the health care staff when he comes in with the bag, and the one comes in with the bag. The one who comes in with the bag has a reception right away. Whoever has a plastic bag, which is transparent and in it, if there is any of the cloths, wait, if you had an appointment, do not, report for your appointment, and then you will come. There is corruption in health care, and you must admit the only ministry that opposes police and budgetary inspection entering, to control and review the operations of health institutions, it is the health ministry. Let the criminal police and the budgetary inspection come in and check how they do business with taxpayers' money, because that's their right and your obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48743	15 minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Dragomir Cimeša, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48744	Dear Madam Vice-President, gentlemen of the ministry, Mr. Honorable Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague Jojic, on several occasions we have discussed this problem, which concerns sending patients, not only a patient, but also patients from Pancheva, or in general from Vojvodina to the Republic of Serbia, or Belgrade. The biggest problem is sending patients from Panchev to Belgrade. I told you we took the right steps and that's no longer the rule. I must tell you that the medical committees that make the decision are based on professionality and on the documentation they have, and on the recommendation of doctors from health institutions from the territory of Pancheva and the municipalities of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina to refer the patient to treatment in Belgrade. It never happened that it wasn't respected. As you know, the problem with maternity and pregnant women is also solved. We reacted so that no more pregnant women can be prevented in any way from performing childbirth or treatment and examinations at Belgrade clinics. Surely there are health problems and that is present. I wouldn't generalise healthcare corruption on all doctors and medical staff. There's a weed in every grain and it's known how to get rid of it. As for the health insurance of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the Regional Health Insurance Institute, it is an organisational unit, meaning the Regional Institute of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and we are together constantly making great efforts to organise health care and health insurance in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and throughout Serbia with the resources at our disposal. I'm sure there are problems. You know that it was re-election of directors in the entire system of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, including the Regional Health Insurance Institute, and that we have made a number of human resources that will improve health care and health insurance. (President: Two minutes. That's what happened at the Pancheva branch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48745	National MP Petar Jojic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48746	Madam Chairman, I have information, you have tried, and you have asked to obey the law, and that the citizens of Pancheva receive instructions certified that they can be treated wherever they want, above all, according to Belgrade, because it is 15 kilometers away. However, please make sure they're acting on your orders at all, examine that. Secondly, when it comes to health care in Panchev, just one information, one fact. There are about 700 graduates in Pancheva, so academics, doctors and pharmacists, and you can imagine that we have a pharmacist in Pancheva, a doctor who came from Cačka to be the director of the pharmacy, and the previous director was prosecuted in front of the court in charge. Does that make sense? There isn't. I want to believe that you will take the stand and I ask you on behalf of the citizens of South Banat and especially Panchev, who have the most problems with the most severe illness i.e. cancer and children who suffer precisely because of the industrial zone, the south and the bombings that have left lasting and severe consequences for the citizens of Panchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48747	National MP Dragan Cimesh, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48748	Dear fellow Jojic, make sure I do everything I can to improve the situation in Panchev and in the whole system. I give you my word, but you must be aware that we must examine everything and prove that there are certain problems in the ministry. We can't accuse anyone of doing a good job or not. I will personally review the work of the medical committee. We've got a plan on certain personnel changes. I will personally come next, and you know very well that I am often in Pancheva, I have good co-operation with local self-government, in the extreme case of you, because very often we talk about all this with colleague Srdjan Mikovic and with the management of our local self-government, so be assured that we will continue to be on such good constructive and collegiate relations and that we will solve all the problems that arise in healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48749	The word has an MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48750	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the law, no matter how good they are, doesn't make much sense in itself if it doesn't have their effective application in practice. I'll talk about two specific examples. The first concerns a legislative proposal to extend the deadline for taking over health homes by local self-government by three years. The good side of this solution is that the local self-government, most of which are in great shortfall, barely survives, especially after the reduction of transfer funds from the level of the Republic, will not have new financial purposes for the next three years. The bad side of this solution is that some local self-government for another three years will probably not be able to solve some problems in the functioning of local health homes, and for which resolution is insufficiently understood by the health ministry. I have repeatedly talked about problems in the Municipality of the Great Plan that exist because of the lack of doctors in the House of Health "Bane Djordjevic". The assessment of the management of the House of Health, professional evaluations, with these estimates was agreed by all representatives of the Ministry of Health who have been in the Great Plan in recent years, it is necessary for normal functioning of the home of health to receive at least three general practitioners. The assessment was also agreed by State Secretary Perisa Simonovic when he visited the Velika Plan a year ago and pledged to help solve this problem as quickly as possible. The municipality and the Health House don't have enough of their own resources to solve this problem. Perhaps they would have been if the government and this assembly had not decided on a significant reduction in the transfer funds from the Republic to the municipalities, which is why the Great Plan has already been denied by more than 40 million dinars. As a result of this lack of doctors, there is a fact that the crowds in the House of Health in the Great Plan are literally intolerable, and that doctors there are sometimes looking at twice as many patients as prescribed by law, rather than their professional norms. If it is taken to pay three doctors on an annual basis, I mean salaries and contributions, it takes about 3.5 million dinars, it would be enough for the Republic to forward to the Great Plan this transfer funds that it has denied. That would be enough to pay these three doctors over the next 12 years. I draw attention to a very important fact, which is that in the Municipality of the Great Plan there are 50 employees less than the law allowed and thus the Great Plan saves more than 30 million dinars per year in this country. I think it would be correct of the state, by the Ministry of Health, to this correctness, to return at least a tenth of these funds to the Municipality of the Great Plan through the employment of these three necessary doctors. The next particular case I want to talk about because of the presence of people from the Ministry of Health is the case of Ilija Rajčević of the Great Plane, who works as an electrician at Gosa from Smederjevska Palanka. On March 12th of this year, he operated on the heart at the Institute of Cardiosurgery in Belgrade and was installed with three bypasses. Elijah is 54 years old. He's been diabetic for 25 years, and he's been taking insulin every day for the last 15 years. At the recommendation of the doctor who performed the operation at the Clinical Centre, following his release from the hospital from hospital treatment, Rajcevic submitted a request for continued treatment in Niška Banja, which specializes in the rehabilitation of patients, patients who had heart surgery. But on April 9th, this year, the first-degree commission, a subsidiary of the Health Insurance Fund in Smederjevska Palanca, made a solution to reject the request submitted by Ilija Rajcevic. At the first control carried out at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, the competent doctor Dr Mladen Kočica gives the following findings and the following opinion – for completely incomprehensible reasons he is not referred to rehabilitation, repeats the request to the commission because rehabilitation of surgical cardiac patients in the absence of post-operative complications, which is the case with patient Ilija Rajcevic, a necessary and integral part of the treatment of patients with coronary and ischaemic heart disease. In line with this finding, doctor Ilija Rajcevic reiterated the request to the first-degree medical commission, which again again provides a solution on 6 May this year that his request is not justified. Rajcevic complains to the second-degree commission. The second-degree commission in Smederev on May 18th makes a solution that finds the first-degree commission right. I'll be reading the brief report and Dr. Mladen's opinion on the... (President: National MP, I have no doubt that you will bring up a case that you quote in connection with the agenda, but please, whether you have the patient's consent or not, do not read about someone else's health during the session. That's not allowed. Please contact the case you're talking about on the agenda. I appreciate your intervention. Anyway, she's well-intentioned. I consulted the patient I'm talking about, and he asked that this problem be presented so that the public in Serbia and the representatives of the health ministry would be familiar with this. He's in a pretty inscrutable state of health, and he's expecting help. I'm not going to quote Dr. Kocice's opinion, except for the sentence that the patient did not perform rehabilitation on repeated insistence, because the commission has persistently adhered to the unreasonable in the medical sense of the criteria. I believe that this is why the commission and doctors should be held accountable because, with the deafening of medical standards, it has made it impossible for patients to be treated completely. I brought this problem to the representatives of the Ministry of Health, because I really wanted to ask the question especially to Secretary of State Perishi Simonovic – what health insurance Ilija Rajcevic should do and what steps he should take to achieve this legal right that belongs to him in any case, and I think that achieving that legal right is part of a set of measures that the government and the Serbian Parliament are taking to improve health care in RS. I remind you specifically when it comes to the Smederev Institute of Health Care that for several years more than 20 doctors have been prosecuted for giving false opinions on the patient's condition and that they have been sent to early retirement. Now we have two extremes. We're going from one extreme to sending healthy people into retirement. It's between 800 and 3,000 people. We have another extreme that one man, who really needs a banish treatment, needs to be denied rehabilitation. Mr. Simonovic knows that several tens of thousands of people are being treated in spas in Serbia annually. There are certainly several thousand people among them who are better in health than Mr Rajcevic. In that sense, I pray to hear the answer to what Mr. Rajcevic has to do in order to exercise his right? That's the first thing. Secondly, I would once again ask Mr. Periš Simonovic to respond, remind him of his arrival in the Great Plan, of his finding that the Home of Health in the Great Plan does not have enough doctors, what does the Ministry of Health intend or does he intend to do recently to solve this problem? I also use the opportunity to appeal to Mr. Periš Simonovic, whom I know as an extremely honorable man, that, as a member of the medical profession and State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, the RS should stop this shameful silence, save its cheek and soul, and immediately ask the UN and The Hague tribunal for a detailed investigation into Dr Vojislav Seselj's health situation. These days, the world's public is buzzing about experiments the Cypriot terrorists have been doing on Serbs with KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48751	People's MP, I am now asking you to talk about the agenda topic or that the argument you have begun be brought into contact with the agenda topic. Thank you. It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been last reported on the list of MPs, MP Gordana Pavnović Milosavljevic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48752	Once again, at the beginning of this afternoon's debate, I would say that the SRS parliamentary group felt that the mental health law was first to be passed, and only then was the law on psychoactive controlled substances, because this mental health law is a system and roof law, which has not been passed for more than 10 years and thus does not protect the mental health of people in Serbia. Psychoactive controlled substances create addiction and addiction to intoxicating drugs is defined in Article 2 of the Law. We believe that dependence on psychoactive controlled substances is a serious and severe social disease. It primarily has social pathology, but the phenomenon can also have medical, or psychiatric, and psychological, and other dimensions. She has received epidemic conditions, especially in the population of young people. However, bringing this social problem only to disease or to a socially deviating phenomenon results in ineffectiveness in its prevention. This law needs to be applicable, not to remain a dead letter on paper. We fear that this law will soon experience either its revision or its amendment. The psychologically controlled substances are somewhat superficially, insufficiently and lacking in this law. In this time that allows me to refer only to some members, and later when the debate is in particular much more. As a responsible parliamentary group, we have submitted more than 30 amendments to this law. I hope you will consider these amendments in a correct and serious way and adopt some of them. At first, I said that this law had 117 members that were processed in 15 chapters. The second chapter of this law refers to the classification of psychoactive controlled substances and has from 8th to 13th members. Article 8 provides for a list of psychoactive controlled substances from the Minister of Health and with an opinion, i.e. the consent of the Commission. We think this list of psychoactive controlled substances should be more the subject of the drug law. We believe that the third chapter, relating to the identification of the study of psychoactive substances, should not be regulated under the Drug Act. In the third chapter, the most significant is Article 21, which provides that the reference laboratory must have a responsible person to identify the study of psychoactive controlled substances, as well as the replacement. This member shall provide for the conditions to be met by the responsible person and his deputy. What's very problematic about this article is that it has to be a member of the RS. This person must not be punished and must not be prosecuted for errors made in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. What we find extremely problematic is that you did not regulate under this article of the law that this person should possess certain expertise, namely certain knowledge from the field of psychoactive controlled substances. What is very important for every branch of medicine, and especially for this one, is the expertise of the person who deals with this matter. Professionality is something that every one of us wants when he goes to a doctor. We choose doctors to be more or less professional. In the context of expertise, I would like to say that our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, is also a patient because he had heart problems, as well as a citizen and citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Under the Health Protection Act and by numerous international conventions, he has the right to choose a doctor. Therefore, we want again, unfortunately the minister is not here, but to appeal to stop as the competent ministry killing Professor Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. I would also continue with the competences of certain members. Article 31 refers to the responsible person for the production of psychoactive controlled substances. I would ask what is the difference between the responsible person for the production, i.e. the traffic of psychoactive controlled substances and the responsible person in the authorised or reference area. In Article 31, you mention that there must be expertise, i.e. that it is necessary to have certain expertise, and you do not mention what you mention in Article 21, which is, we think is much more important for this Article 31, that the responsible person does not have or does not conduct a criminal procedure for the field of psychoactive controlled substances. I think it's a huge lack of this, not just a member of the law, but also of this law. I would then refer to the reference institutions. This is Dr. Periša Simonovic, who, as far as I've heard, is a neuropsychiatrist like myself, and as far as I know in Belgrade, not in Belgrade, but in Serbia there are 21 reference institutions dealing with addiction diseases. But the problem is big for other neuropsychiatric institutions that also have, in some ways, a moral or ethical obligation to deal with people with this problem. In particular, the problem is, and I don't think it can be defined that only certain institutions have to deal with addiction diseases, because addiction is not just about drug treatment, that is, prevention or rehabilitation. All people who suffer from disease addiction also have many mental problems that these reference institutions, I won't name them here right now, but I have experience working on a psychiatry of 23 years and 23 years on duty, which have very severe mental disorders. Then the ambulance brings these patients to 12, 1, 2 for attempted suicide or for attempted homicidality, yet I'm not going to name any on-call institutions, and just throw them out like that, which is one big grudge, and I don't think it's just my personal grudge, but it's the aggrieve of many doctors to work as an ambulance. The patient cannot be thrown into the waiting room, the emergency room must first establish contact with the on-call technician or the on-call doctor, so as to see if the patient is indicated for entry into that facility or any other facility. I think you who worked, and I heard, at the Institute of Mental Health, you have a similar experience. In this way, I appeal that, in some ways, not only reference institutions are defined by this law. This law should also define other institutions dealing with disease-related addictions. So much for these members who are from the medical profession, even though I also told the Health and Family Committee that this law is not sufficiently regulated by the area of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation and that it is necessary and certain to pass some new law, which will make this issue much wider and much deeper to regulate. This law is very superficial and very unspeakable. Also, I don't think you should have passed this law by an emergency procedure without regulations, which is an article in 115 you don't bring for 18 months. We find that inadmissible. What will be during this period and whether this law will apply or in some way will be forgotten, which has yet to come into force on the eighth day, and whether it will apply from the eighth day, that is the question. Here you have many regulations and many members of the law that define the issue of a permit to be carried out within 90 days for production, traffic. Then, the ministry, which is also a major problem, that the ministry's inspection should only take two years to get on the ground and determine whether a traffic permit has been issued and the processing of these psychoactive substances. I think it's inadmissible and that those periods should be shortened and limited to a shorter period. Also, as far as this criminal policy is concerned, I don't know if you've agreed to a criminal policy concerning the Criminal Code, which concerns this matter which has been processed in the Criminal Code. I believe that, and I'm going to refer to these criminal provisions relating to the economic offense, they're quite mild. It's fines from one million to three million dinars. It says – they will be punished for the commercial offence of a legal person if they carry out the production, i.e. the traffic of psychoactive controlled substances. We think this isn't even for some bigger fine, but it's normal for a criminal procedure to have, not to say, which sentence. That's why we have proposed to our amendments that these fines that, I say, are very mild be increased. We also believe that this applies not only to legal persons, but also to natural persons, which is in the case of offences and Article 111, where it is said to be fined from 300,000 to millions of dinars for a violation of a legal person, if, for a responsible person, i.e. a deputy responsible person, or a reference laboratory, determines a person contrary to the provisions of this Article 21, i.e. Article 2 and 3 of this Act. And here we have proposed an amendment and a better amendment. We hope you'll at least adopt someone. Also, I don't know what the position of Article 111 is, the final position says of the violation of Article 1 of this article will be fined by a natural person with a fine of 20,000 to 50,000 dinars. This is the ultimate and illicit bit, for such enormous and infrequent and at all one act that is extremely amoral. We as responsible SRS MPs will not vote in favour of this bill and we are in principle not against the adoption of one such law, but this law should be more concrete, it should be more detailed and should in one appropriate way protect all citizens of Serbia, especially the young population from drug abuse, drug addiction, crime and all forms of violence. We all know that both smoking and alcohol go into step and the drug area. Today it's one big problem, so nobody starts right now with drugs, we all know it here. It starts with either smoking cigarettes from the tenth, eleventh year, back in the third, fourth grade of primary school, and then it continues with alcohol and eventually smoking marijuana, which is usually the first youth encounter with this type of drug. This is why we believe that prevention, because this is not only a medical problem, I said, and the introduction of health care in schools, where education of young people should be done in one professional way, to tell young people what is harmful, what are the adverse consequences of taking these drugs, taking alcohol, taking drugs, and in some ways, besides education in schools, is essential to working with family members. So, at this time of economic and social crisis, when all people are fighting for survival, when they're looking to feed in some way...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-16-0.u48753	People's MPs, time at the disposal of the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chambers of Health Professionals and the Proposal for a Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Dear People's MPs, at 4:30 p.m., we're back in a situation where we were at 13.55 p.m. when I had information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia couldn't send us anyone as a representative for the agenda points following the fourth. Meanwhile, you have been informed that Minister Milan Markovic has been designated, but I currently have no information that any of the members of the Republika Srpska government will attend the session's work. I have a choice to set a break and wait for final information definitively on whether or not a member of the Government comes to the agenda or I have a choice to inform us all together, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that for today we are finishing work and that we are praying, on behalf of all of us, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is more serious about the obligations that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on Government and the Law on the National Assembly are placed before all members of the Government of Serbia. I'd say we're all willing to finish our work today. So, for today, we're finishing our work. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We will continue tomorrow, December 17th, at 10.00 p.m., by discussing the points of the agenda that follow after just closed. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask all MPs to pay attention to the expression, the number of MPs present in the hall. I ask the MPs to check the identification of their cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 81 MPs are present in the hall and another MP, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are not present, which is why, pursuant to Article 88(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm delaying the beginning of the session in one hour and continuing to work with a quorum appointment in 11.15 minutes.
