ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked a parliamentary question concerning the privatisation of the company Novosti, and I asked the question of delivering all the transformations of the company "News" from 1990 to 2002, as well as the question of who is behind the three companies that privatised "News", "Trimaks Invest", "Ardos Holding" and "Karamat Holding". I got the answer. Interestingly, the answer was written on 13 April 2010 at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and I received an answer Monday. That's a real record. And by the way, the Ministry is here, right across the hall. If they'd sent over the courier, it would have come a long time ago, but it's important what they said. On the first part of the question, I got an answer, and you'll get a chance to hear it. He says, "Introduced to the overall case files, it was found that the state in the files of the Ministry of Industry, relating to the structure of the company "News" a.d., differs significantly from the state recorded in the decision of the Trade Court in Belgrade, the number" and "as well as the data recorded in the Central Register, and I find that the Ministry of Business has never, in its act, established the structure of the capital that the company "News" a.d. Belgrade has entered in the Commercial Court and the Central Register, in a work relating to the capital held by the Republic of Serbia, demonstrated in 1989 by the actions and capital of the PIO Fund in 482 shares of capital. ''I ask the question – well, how was it possible for the News to privatize? How was it possible when the Ministry said that the data differed, that there was absolutely no insight into the structure of this capital? Then who privatized and in what way? Who's damaged here? What's the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office doing? I asked the question, that I would be given the answer, who is behind the three companies that privatised "News" and then precisely suggested that perhaps Stanko Subotic Cane, Saric or some other criminal who obtained money by smuggling tobacco or narcotics might be behind them. Not a single word, Stanko Subotić Cane reported and said, under the contract signed, and after the previous agreement, I am transferring Beka 5,779.060 euros to Ardos Holding, 5,779.696 euros to Trimax Investment, both registered in Austria, and 3.120.266 euros to Karamat Holding Limit. Okay, guys, what are you waiting for? How long will you protect robbers and criminals? Is that why you're not investigating this? Is it a call from the President of the Republic that there are unkindly wealthy, perhaps, preparations for elections and a call for racketeering? Why hasn't the D.A. reacted so far? What do you want after this evidence? How long are you going to protect criminals? How long are you going to protect criminals? What else does it take to launch an investigation? Look out, Mrs. Verica Barac has filed 17 criminal charges. After what time? And you keep quiet, you don't care. What's the D.A.'s office doing? That should all go to jail. Well, they're the chief protectors of criminals. This is simply amazing, after such evidence that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office remains silent?- I'm sorry. I can't figure this out. You are protecting Beka, Miskovic and the other criminals who robbed the property of Serbian citizens! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41353	Time. I thank Mr. Todorovic for joining the fight against organised crime, which, by the way, is a very serious country. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41354	In order for the state to lead a serious fight against organised crime, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished colleagues, I also need to get an answer to the question I am now going to ask the Prime Minister. The National Security Council should answer that question, but I don't know if I'm going to get that answer from them, so I'm going to refer it to the Prime Minister, because the state can run out of perhaps the most serious resources in the fight against organised crime, if it does what it's up to, and it's going to sell Telecom, the way it is now. In fact, if the state sells Telecom and it becomes the majority owner of a foreign company, and does not single out Telecom's network infrastructure as a special public enterprise, the state of Serbia will, in my opinion, be struck in a safe way, an irreparable blow, i.e. He won't be able to recover from it at all because he'll never be able to throw up like that again. That is why I want the Prime Minister to answer the next question - whether the government has taken into account whether or not it has asked, and I know that it has and I know that it has received opinions, but let's see, the opinion of the MUP, i.e. The police, the Department of Defense and the military and all security services on the sale of Telecom? According to my information, she got all these opinions and all the opinions say that if this is the way to sell Telecom, it's not good for the security of the state. Why? Serbian citizens should imagine that Telecom is, for example, "Serb Railway", if everything is sold, that someone else is the majority owner -- everything goes. In other words, the tracks go, the tracks go. And that's what they're using today. that infrastructure and network: both the police and the military and security services. The second network, other infrastructures have no use for telecommunications, fixed telephony, internet communications, etc. We've seen a crowd over this amendment, which, whether it's handed over to the office or it's handed over to the porters, by the Archives, is likely to find out, in any case, that the BIA is using that infrastructure in accordance with the law and day-to-day. If we sell that, for example, as they say, "Dec Telecom," I don't see what he's telling anyone in this country about military neutrality. We can pack right now and go to NATO. There are no more reasons for the story of military neutrality. We've lost more wars in the field of information than in the military field, as well as in the field of information, everyone knows that. Today it doesn't matter if you have 5,000 or 100,000 soldiers. It's important how they're trained and whether they're professional, but in any case, the most important thing is how much information those who run them have, and how fast and how accurate. What I think we need to do is isolate Telecom's network infrastructure in a special public enterprise, then let everything else go for sale. But that's a problem for you because you promised roads, highways, subsidisation of agriculture, coastal fortifications, what not from selling Telecoms, as if I didn't know what price would be achieved. I repeat another question to the Prime Minister – did the government take into account the opinions it received from the police, the military and the security services and is it preparing, what should be done, to isolate the network infrastructure in a special company, and then to let Telecom go for sale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41355	Does anyone else appear on the basis of Article 235? (No) I thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Dejan Radenkovic, Sinisa Stamenkovic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Also, I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the presence of Professor Radvoje Mitrovica, State Secretary Slobodan Jauković, Assistant Minister and Lela Rudic, Assistant Minister at the Ministry of Education, as well as Professor of the National Assembly. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Higher Education (Continuation in principle) Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of MPs' groups want a word? (Yes) Mr. Goran Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41356	Thank you very much. Since yesterday I was the only one of the authorised representatives who had not been able to discuss this topic – today I will begin, and the MPs of the SRS will further relate to my presentation. Today we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and before we say anything about it, I will say that the amendments and additions of some law are always the sword with two blades. In fact, time later shows that what is changed and complemented in the new version can be better, but often worse than the existing solution. The same is true of this law that was passed five years ago. The actors of this law, the students, the professors, will say, have already been stalking and getting used to something that, I say, has become standard, and we are already on our way to carrying out one more significant correction of this law that, I say, lasts for five years and has shown more bad results than good results. I cannot help but repeat what almost all speakers said yesterday, which is that this bill came to the Assembly on Friday afternoon, so Belgrade lawmakers had some chance of coming to it and unfortunately we, MPs from the interior, only Monday morning were we able to get that bill of law and vice-application, we had to write the amendments in a hurry. That is why the SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted only 11 amendments, and I think it is a similar case with other parliamentary groups. But anyway, the general opinion, which I'm going to tell you at the beginning, is that the changes that are proposed are more cosmetic and that, in fact, nothing really changes. Because this only confirmed what the SRS Parliamentary Group was saying five years ago, when we passed the Law, that we were, however, materially, human and organisationally unprepared for the introduction of one such law which, I think, was then adopted more out of some imaginary fear of adopting something that was adopted by others in our environment, not that there was really a need to adopt one such law. However, in some ways we can accept Mr Obradovic's opinion, who at the meeting of the Committee on Education, said that at this point we just want to know the rules of the game when it comes to enrolling the next generation of students, and that some real and fundamental changes to this law may come in the fall or later, because it is certain that a lot of things should be corrected in the said law. Otherwise, the current Law on Higher Education has some 19 continents, 19 chapters, with the draft law providing for changes in 13 chapters, while there are no changes in six chapters, but it retains the existing situation. On the quantitative side, the most changes are in Chapter II, which deals with'supervising the quality of higher education', where a total of seven members are proposed for the change, well, in Chapter IV relating to 'the institutions carrying out the work of higher education', where four members are changed and in Chapter XI relating to'students', where three members are changed. We can, in some ways, see what's most scribbled in the previous five years in the Law of Higher Education. On this occasion, I will go in line with the items to make the basic views and suggestions of our parliamentary group on these changes. And, let's move forward: in Chapter I relating to the basic provisions, the motioner has overlooked only one member change, that is Article 1 point 5). Earlier in this point, one of the principles of higher education was "to respect the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions". You see, the word 'European tradition' has now been thrown out, so it's put on - respect for cultural heritage. Now I would ask the presence of the Ministry of Education – does this mean that you finally realized that from Europe there is no 'vide' or that European principles are not the ones that fit our education system, so you threw this out or were perhaps, perhaps, more intelligent and far-sighted than the people of other ministries, so you had the courage to make this public? In any case, this should be welcomed, because, surely, "cultural heritage" is a more appropriate term than "European principles". Furthermore, in chapter II – the quality of higher education assurance, we said that seven members change. The first part of the amendments concerns the numerical composition and competence of the National Council. It is proposed that the National Council be extended, with 21 members instead of 16 members. What's our objection here? You have predicted that from the order of the university's representatives, the so-called Konus, the number of members from 10 to 12, and we know that our higher education space is also made up of academic and vocational studies, so it remains unclear why you did not predict that even from vocational studies, if not two, at least one member of the National Council? There are several members here dealing with the authority of the Accreditation Commission. You predicted here a term "initial accreditation". Personally, I think the more appropriate term is "technical accreditation", because in that first, let's say, the wave is being tested for the material and personnel capabilities of the higher school institution, which are technical details, so I think it's more appropriate that instead of the word "initial accreditation" here stood "technical accreditation". The next three members of this chapter say the funding of the University Conference, the Academy of Professional Studies and student conferences will be made out of the budget, which is in some way logical, because for higher education, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has always been the main source of funding. Further, in chapter III – studies and study programmes, a correction of a member relating to the procedure for preparation and defence of the doctorate was carried out. Higher education institutions have now received a larger, wider, possibility that the statutes themselves regulate this rule, but with the attached opinion of the Ministry of Science and Technology. I don't know why the Ministry of Science and Technology had to be inserted here, probably because of the 200m euros Mr. Boza Djelic has boxed up the loan, so that's what needs to be shared. I want you to know that sometimes someone has to get it back. Credit is easy to take, but sometimes it needs to be returned. But here lies the first dangerous thing and the grudge I have on this bill. Under the current law, both state and private colleges can teach PhDs. There's a dangerous disproportion. We know for ourselves what the criteria are in public, like at private universities. Then we have a situation where doctors do nothing like mushrooms after the rain, especially at private universities, and when there's a competition in a higher school institution, they compete with each other, they're equal before the law, and of course it wasn't the same way that they came to that academic calling. I suggest that in some future amendment to the Law on Higher Education, this is a little closer to the regulation of the law, not the statute, because the most dangerous thing is when you give someone the opportunity to settle something in the statute, then it can always be a possibility for manipulation and major disagreements. In chapter IV – institutions that carry out higher education, you have given this proposal to amend the possibility of bringing civil and military education together. Now military institutions, or government on their behalf, can enter into a contract with higher education institutions to educate military personnel. I ask the question, since Mr. Minister of Military, Sutanovac, has already practically abolished the Army, because what he says is professionalized, it's only a second name for the abolition of the military – does this mean that the military academy is being slowly and safely abolished, that these people are being transferred to one indirect way to school in civilian higher education institutions, or does this mean, this provision of this law, the first step towards the abolition of those military institutions that were traditional to us? As for issuing work permits, you have prescribed a procedure for this Article 11 which consists of some four characteristic steps. The first step would be if the Ministry of Education had to carry out a preliminary compliance check requiring some accreditation facility. The second step is what you called initial accreditation, checking whether schools meet certain standards. The third step follows the issue of a work permit. You see, when a school, or an institution, is authorised to work, it does not mean that it is accredited, but only to be able to start work, and only after that, within a year of school, to apply for accreditation and then to be resolved on that request. In particular, the higher education institution is accredited, and in particular the study programmes. It's a very complicated procedure. Therefore, higher schools of vocational studies and colleges where academic studies are conducted must perform one huge procedure so that they can be accredited, and often this happens on principle – the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. I'll remind you of the fact that several years ago, high-school vocational studies were accredited. Of the 25 state schools, as many as there are, all 25 were accredited in the first wave, which means that there was dust about something that there was no real reason. The V chapter dealing with scientific research and artistic work does not provide for any changes and additions, but I do not think it is necessary, because we recently adopted another law in this assembly, the Law on Innovation Activity, which has brought this matter closer together. There's no need to add anything special to the Higher Education Act. The authorities of the higher education institution – you have here provided for a member of the 14th amendment to change the composition of the advice of the higher education institution. In this regard, I would first ask the question – why is it left in the law that it is necessary for at least 17 members to be on the board of a higher school institution? You have smaller schools that may be numbering twenty employees, so if the law prescribes at least 17 members, then there is a real danger of turning the advice into a workers' choir, which certainly does not contribute to the quality and way of improving the work of a higher school institution. I would still point especially to one member, which is a member of the 56th Law, which refers to the student parliament. It's the only member who prescribes a student management body. It's that student parliament. Also, the statute of the institution was placed closer to determine the procedure for the election. That's where I would point you to another dangerous thing that happens in practice. The statutes differ from one institution to another, and you can have one choice principle in one school, another principle in the other. It would be like if local elections in Serbia were held in each city in the same statute of the municipality, not the Law on Local Elections. I therefore believe that, inevitably, this article in 56 needs to be corrected and the procedure for elections for the student parliament closer to the law, not the statute, because it was the source of many manipulations and disagreements in practice. We have submitted one amendment to this article, so in order not to explain it now, I will do so when there is a debate in particular. In Chapter VII – The financing of a higher education institution is provided for in Article 15 of the amendment, that schools and colleges cannot determine the level of tuition on their own, but can do so according to the provided opinion of the Ministry of Education. We think it was supposed to be a case a long time ago. It is certain that in this era of shortages and severe economic crises students cannot always afford to pay tuition at all colleges and should go to some minimum value that would be acceptable to everyone. In chapter VIII – Staff of the Higher Education Institute, you provided conditions for professor emeritus at the university. Since the SRS parliamentary group is in favour of the compatibility of vocational and academic studies, I would ask the question here – why is there no possibility in professional studies that someone would declare himself an emeritus professor? I'm sure there are people who have spent an entire working century in these professional studies, too, who probably left a trail in that environment that they've been working in, so it should be considered to be one item that needs to be changed by some subsequent amendment to this law. In the X chapter relating to the study regime, nothing has been changed in particular. The duration of the school year, the study regime and the obligation of a higher education institution to students remained the same. We only have one change in terms of six deadlines, instead of five of them in the current law. And here I would appeal to what I have already said several times, that the question of the number of deadlines should be resolved in a unique way by the law on higher education, not by the statute of certain higher education institutions. We all remember the situation from a month or two ago, when a large group of students of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, here, gave us a petition in front of the Assembly because they had their insolvency deadlines lifted. It is indeed an injustice to these students, because you have colleges where you have ten and more deadlines in a year, and you see, they've been abolished by these, let's say, regulars who have always existed. It is certain that there is a need to prevent higher education institutions from regulating it themselves in the statutes, but it is already necessary to uniformly regulate the law. We also have a member of the 21st that refers to professional, academic and scientific names. It's a member who's been the source of the biggest disagreements for five years, especially when it comes to calling this "masters." I'm sure this member should be more regulated to know exactly what student's calling and when, and how many wanderings there are, I'll show you on a simple case. In these five years since the Law on Higher Education was introduced, the index has been changed five times. Look, here's the index that was in 2005, when the Law was introduced, there's this blue one, which was changed after a year or two, and here's the index, which looks more like a passport, on a travel document, than on a index, and for which it took us teachers at least three or four days to work out all the sections. Today I saw for the first time that for a new generation, this new index, which contains completely different sections than those of the previous generation, came out. This is one proof that still in the area of higher education we wander and that in some subsequent change we should bring, indeed, fundamental changes, which will be real nature, not these cosmetics that were more to satisfy this generation of students than they are of some lasting value. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41357	Due to his opinion, Mr Jojic asked yesterday to respect the reason why he was unable to take part at the time when it was foreseen. I give him my word. Please, just sign in, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41358	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when it comes to law-making, it must be strictly kept in mind that good laws are passed. The truth of the will, the law of which is being amended and complemented by the Law on Higher Education, was adopted in 2005, 2007 and 2008. With these changes and additions, it gets too far into the normative of previous laws, it is 33 members, and it is too wide intervention in one law. The problem is that when laws are passed, even if there is no law enforcement, the promoter or the government is seeking amendments and additions. These changes and additions confirm the fact that good and strong laws have not been passed. There is no parallel-law analysis here in the adoption of numerous laws in Serbia. The reform of the judiciary, i.e. education, includes higher education. I notice, Mr. Minister, that you have an initiative to resolve a number of issues in education. However, the state of the textbook's writing has not gone further, and in that part, I believe that review and review are not at an enviable level. When Mrs. Hope is done, let me continue. (President: Continue, Mr. Jojic. Well, I don't see a minister, Madam President. I don't know, the minister doesn't follow this. (President: Continue, the co-workers of the minister follow you.) Mr. Jojic, continue. I'm sorry, I'd like Minister Obradovic to follow. Excuse me. Mr. Minister, when it comes to high school textbooks, there's chaos. I'll give you an example. In one college, you have three professors who teach the same class. Three writing professors who wrote three textbooks. Now the question arises – which professor will which student come to pass the exams? That's why we need to run a review, but teamwork. From all universities and all colleges, especially for each class, a commission needs to be formed to work textbooks. Don't let, as in practice, a regular teacher order a textbook without others writing to him. The review must cover how extraordinary teachers who write textbooks, so it must also apply to regular teachers. The review and control must go from university, university, but the last instance must be the minister of education and his ministry, to exercise control. Secondly, you had a monopoly in individual colleges when it comes to individual subjects. You had such a case that the student passed all the exams, but stuck it to, say, international private law and three years couldn't pass it, and it contained maybe 200 pages, but the professor who teaches the subject is so principled that he looks for hair in the egg, and that students used to end up at clinics. There's got to be order here. Chaos rules in textbooks, both in scope and content. Everyone writes textbooks. The ministry and its inspection must control university textbooks at universities equally and thus prevent plagiarists. So to enable a textbook to be written that will be effective, not that individual professors or experts write plagiarists, so that they are studied and attributed to one professor that it is his work. You know what happened at the Law School at Mr. Stevan Lilic's. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41359	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SPS-JS, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, SNS and SRS. I give my word to the MP, Peter Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41360	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Education, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which today is ahead of us on the agenda, it is certain that it calls for some attention, not only to the professional public of teachers at higher school institutions, but also to citizens, or throughout Serbia. Why? Because everyone is paying attention to these changes, because citizens have one of their relatives, children, grandchildren in colleges or getting ready for colleges, so they're certainly interested in what kind of changes are being prepared and what changes will be adopted in this house regarding this law. What I can say in front of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group is that we will support this law in the voting day, both in principle and in the voting day, when it is decided on a full law with amendments, for reasons, not because we think this is an ideal law, there are no ideal laws, but because we believe that these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education in many ways improve the existing law that is now in place. So what was seen by the Ministry of Education to represent difficulties or to cause doubts about the application of this law, as well as about the need to accept some suggestions that came from higher education institutions and the fruit of all this is precisely these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I will focus my exposure on two or three things about this law, because the introduction in front of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group has already said a lot, there are other participants in the debate from this parliamentary group, so that I don't take their time, is that I can praise the ministry's efforts, or a proposal in the law to increase the number of deadlines for passing exams, from five to six. I think it's in some way met the demands not only of higher education institutions, but of students who study at these higher education institutions. What causes confusion in me, perhaps I haven't studied the law well, is that the exams must be completed by October 10th of the current year, given that it is already on the threshold, i.e. the May-June exam deadline in many universities, can colleges be able to arrange this by October 10th? Then let's keep it as one of my questions. I would also like to commend that there have been some improvements between those students who are trained in budget spending and those who are self-financed, i.e. that students who are self-financed can now be easier when they meet certain conditions to move on to budgetary study. What is particularly good and what I particularly welcome, in front of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, is that the Ministry, in some way, takes control of the level of established scholarships in colleges through amendments to this law. Because now colleges can use their instruments to determine the level of tuition, but in future, the Ministry of Education will have to agree that, because so far we have had great colour in this regard, from college to college, these differences in the amount of tuition were, to use that harsh term, abnormal and were not suited to the financial and economic situation in which Serbian citizens are located. When it comes to accreditation of higher education institutions, Mr. Minister, you said it would be a easier way to get to accreditation, but with respect to certain legal standards that every higher education institution must meet to get the right to educate students at its university. However, what I would have to say, and I convey the opinion of at least those citizens I contact, is that we have one hyperproduction of higher and higher schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think there's more to taking care of, say, the question of the quality of teaching in these schools, etc. We will come to a situation where all those citizens of Serbia, young people who want to finish higher and higher school and end up, so that, literally, high school as an occupation, will be only a condition for someone to be able to enroll in a higher or higher school. I think there's more to be done in the future. I'm not and I'm not going to say I'm against private higher and higher schools, but I think we need to tighten up the criteria when it comes to opening such schools. Also take care of the quality of teaching and the quality of the profession when the higher or higher school is finished. What is not foreseen by this law, which I cannot tell you, I want to suggest to you, will soon be passed a new law, for a certain period of time, by the Ministry, if not at this time, or in a few years, since I am sure that this ministry in this system will remain for at least five or six years in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to be considered a little bit more when it comes to students who are studying on the burden of budget, coming from underdeveloped municipalities, or from municipalities that are conflicting with the lack of certain staff. It is necessary to take account, to think about it, to find a modus that out of these municipalities for those occupations that are missing in these underdeveloped municipalities, allow, at all universities, a number of students, several young people from these municipalities, regardless of not meeting that bonus to be on the burden of the budget, however, to study on the burden of the budget. Because we need to understand that in these municipalities wages are small, parents are not in a position to pay tuition like this, so I suggest that the Ministry go out with some proposal, along with other ministries, to find a modus to allow those young people who do not qualify to be so-called budget students to study on the burden of the budget. Finally, let me conclude, once again, that the SPS-JS Group will support these amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41361	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Milic Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41362	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished colleague of Mr. Shami, who is an authorised representative of the DSS Group, has found that we have received this law, indeed, within a very unserious time. Members living in Belgrade got it Friday night, we living outside Belgrade, I was the one, we could not get this law until Monday. It would be just unserious if we didn't read the paper today, so we saw by chance that Serbia's transparency also indicates that the Serbian government is delivering laws to lawmakers within a very short period, where the public cannot be declared, where MPs can't be serious about the work and that this is a very symptomatic case. Why is it a symptomatic case? Because we had the opportunity to yesterday, when we talked about electronic communication, to see that something was wrong and that from today, from the moment the law was passed both the police and the BIA and the VBA will be able to control the private life of all Serbian citizens, regardless of whether they received the court's decision. So they'll be able to trace their e-mails, their phone calls and everything. Coincidence or not, the public could only find out about it yesterday at a meeting because the law had never seen it before. Also, she could not know the public that Serbian citizens would have to pay 150,000 euros for schooling the administration in Danilovgrad. That, for example, would be a data, and that would be the fact that Serbian citizens could get to know each other before the assembly session begins, but unfortunately these things happen. Whether it was someone's intention to get to know Serbia's citizens only when it's too late or not, I don't want to interpret it, I just want to point out to Serbian citizens that things are happening exactly like this so that MPs get the laws of the moment they're supposed to talk about them. Now let's look at this law in front of us. I need to know right now when it comes to this proposal, which is ahead of us, that there are a few things that are good and that I should start with them right away. It is good that after two years you accepted what the DSS proposed in October 2008, when it comes to ranking students and one equal relationship of all students that, practically, if they win enough points, whether they are listed as self-financed or budgetary students, they are in the same status. So that they can move to the status of self-financing or the one on the budget relative to its success and how many points it has won. It's also good that you extended your deadlines to students, magistrates and doctors. It's a very positive thing, because people don't find themselves in the woods of regulations and because laws and regulations change over a few years, so people don't know by what law they have to finish their master's and doctoral studies. But it seems to me, that's what I said when Mr. Minister and his colleagues were in the DSS Group, that you didn't exactly say here in the law exactly, whether this deadline extends to the entire procedure, therefore, for passing exams that have not been passed and plus defense work or just regarding this defense of labour. We made that clear, the minister said he was referring, therefore, to the whole procedure, and that's important to say on this occasion. I'd like the minister to talk about it, too, but I'd like it to be in the members in which the law says a lot and more precisely, because colleges interpret things fairly freely and interpret them in the way they like it. Because you have a situation that also about tuition, which has changed quite a bit in the last two years in certain colleges, the Ministry has announced and requested that it remain the same, so colleges have understood it in different ways, mostly, the tuitions have jumped to almost all colleges. Also, I listened very carefully to what my predecessors said, so I simply have to react to how accreditations are done. Accreditation at this point and in this bill is not poorly imagined, but what I would like to consider more is one process control and control of how classes are conducted, which is the quality, as assessed, so that we do not come into the situation to talk here about having 148 science doctors in two calendar years in one university. Then I was really led by a team to comment a little bit, and let's say I'm also thinking about raising the number of professional teachers, the number of professional teachers constantly employed at the university, because if you have 148 doctors of science in two years, then we're very educated. Unfortunately, things don't exactly stand that way, the number of schools is large but the number of educated people in Serbia is small and can be measured by a single digit. So I just think that the citizens of Serbia should really be educated and that percentage needs to be much higher than the 8%. We, as a parliamentary group, have invested quite a number of amendments, about 18 amendments, and we will see how, I think of the key things that we have invested, although we have had a comment on how, let's say, the opening part of some things have been defined, but we have stayed on those 18 amendments and we will see, we will talk about them when we talk later. The minister said that they were trying, he and his colleagues, to meet the students the most, and that's fine, although we can comment on how good it is for the whole process and whether it really is to meet students, because in the next two years, the number of points will be held at 48 which can be good, but at some point it would have to be made that intersection, so I think we're putting off something that has to happen. These 60 points are some reality, and it seems to me that we don't do these undergraduates any good to the whole process, and at least to the students. Because I think we should take care of it, together, of course, with students and teachers, and with all of us here in the Assembly, that what we all care about here is the level of knowledge of all these students. So let's see how that came out to meet the students. Of course, I mentioned the question of the number of points, where the next two years will be 48, then they will slowly increase to 60. We also came to the meeting by commenting that the DSS in October 2008 passed as a law that was neither on the agenda then, thanks to the congregation's majority, nor was it spoken of, and is now adopted as a solution. Therefore, if they have a sufficient number of points, students, regardless of whether they are listed as budgetary or self-financed, are placed in the same position and ranked on the basis of the number of points, so they can move to one or another status. This is defined by Article 19, or in a member who amends that Article 88 in the old law. The model we offered back then was good in October 2008, and I don't know why it wasn't accepted. He's accepted today, that's good, but we lost two years. Every time we witnessed that the school year of students started with rebellions, demonstrations and similar things, which was not necessarily necessary. I think it's very important for all of us here to put things right and at the right time. Furthermore, I don't think article 19 is entirely accurate, although you further define it and develop it in article 25, which is fine, but I think article 19 should be better defined. Next, as you went out to meet the students, you offered them six deadlines and that's fine, on the one hand. I'm afraid we haven't figured out again what deadlines these are, but it appears that October one and two, it all ends by October 10th of the current year, when it's cut. Again, I insist that everything must be more precisely defined, precisely because of the interpretation of colleges that understand things in their own way and the deadlines give as they will, not taking much care of what is in the law. We had this story with the students of economic college, who was already mentioned here by a colleague from a radical party. We've had all kinds of stories. It cannot apply to the laws that have been passed, and therefore it was necessary to define what is meant under six deadlines and what are the deadlines. We, of course, don't mind increasing the number of deadlines, but I'm still saying that you have to take care of the quality of study and the quality of teaching, and the knowledge students take with them. What we have no comment on, you increase the number of members of the National Council to 21 from 16. It can be okay, we can comment, it can be understood one way or another, but what the DSS can't accept and what we've also put the amendments on, but we'll comment publicly, is that you're making a proposal that the government chooses one-third of the National Council. It's a very large number and there's no need for the government to control the National Council. I think that our amendment should be accepted, because there is no need for the government to be appointed as the controller of the National Council. What is also unacceptable is the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. The statute, which the DSS has really criticised, gives an abnormally large number of responsibilities to Vojvodina, here you are even increasing those powers. Col. Shami mentioned what all this could lead to, and I think you should take it seriously, because at one point we will have a situation to have two systems in Serbia. It's a real possibility, not perhaps this moment when it's in power both in Vojvodina and Serbia, so it's the same set, but let's not wait long. It seems to me that these things can happen, the state seriously has to take care of it and it has to be put aside to preserve the state and the education system, not to give up to some political powers that are in power right now. That's it, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41363	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41364	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as my predecessor, a colleague from the SPS-JS Parliament Club, Mr Petrovic, said, we will support the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education in the day of voting, as a Parliament club. The importance of this law that we are considering today is that it refers to higher education, and education is the priority of every society for which the state is responsible, because it also provides and regulates this system. I believe that the proposed changes represent a significant contribution to the upgrade and progress of the higher education system in Serbia. Education in total, and above all, higher education, I would say, is a responsible social mission, and that is why I think that all countries, and especially our country that passes transition and wants to become developed, have a need for many highly educated people, because it is the only one and I would say, a real guarantee for successful and economic social development. The adopted 2005 law lays the basis for a new system of higher education, based on the Bologna Declaration, which also makes the system in Serbia part of the European and complementary with it, and when it comes to the organisation and objectives of higher education and the organisation of this activity within higher education institutions. The education system is, I have already said, extremely important and we can note that our ministry, led by Mr. Obradovic, pays attention to education from basic, medium to, behold, today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Higher Education and I am convinced that by adopting a strategy of education and adoption and the adoption and adoption of a new classification of occupation we will be able to round up Serbia's educated system. What I see as the quality of these changes is that the Ministry, together with the total university community, so I think of both teachers and students, closely monitors the processes of the current effects of reform and proposes only the necessary changes to improve the existing system. It is also very important that, when it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Education Law, there is one consensus and agreement between the academic community, professors and representatives of the ministry. It is very important that we reach a consensus on this issue, if possible, and within the Republic Parliament, because it is clear that the proposed changes will contribute to the effectiveness of the study, and put students, what is extremely important, at the heart of the interest. On the other hand, it is logical to agree on concrete measures that will improve and improve the system and the area of higher education in Serbia. What I would especially like to point out is that these changes have two important characteristics, firstly, that existing changes of the law do not touch the basics of the system, but provide its stability, and it goes to those changes that would build up, complement and make this system more efficient. The proposed changes are also characteristic of the removal of some ambiguities present in the applicable law. So, perhaps in public too, the most present issue of confusion was the master’s study of acquired calling. It's one example that regulates these changes and brings, I'd say, very clear solutions. We are aware of the importance of education in our country and we want to point out the good changes that will contribute to the realisation and achievement of the system and the objectives of higher education, and in particular to allow everyone under equal conditions to gain higher education and to be educated throughout their lives and what these changes, as well as the overall education policy of the Government, will step forward in order to realize, i.e. to increase the number of people with higher education. The analyses show different data on the number of educated people, say, in the US countries about 30%, in some countries of Europe 50%, and Serbia has, as we could hear, about 8% of highly educated people. I just want to point out the need for Serbia to have as many as possible and a percentage of highly educated people. Normally, this goal cannot be realised quickly, but we think that the current government in its policy shows the determination to move towards achieving that goal. In particular, when it comes to the changes we are talking about today, their adoption will create an opportunity to improve students' passability and thus increase the number of highly educated people in Serbia. I'd like to set a few more values. What prevents many young people from enrolling in college is tuition, especially when it comes to young people from the interior. Positive in this law is that the supervisory function will be performed by the Resoring Ministry in relation to scholarships. This law further encourages and supports the autonomy of the university, but seeks its great responsibility when it comes to the programme and when it comes to the quality of the studies, which is also extremely important. This law is good because it removes a confusion that applies, I have already said, to the acquired calling of completing a proper degree of study. He is now returning for four years of college schooling calling a graduate and that is a correct, optimal, understandable solution and, of course, three levels of study are being held. The proposed changes and additions keep the system and change what is necessary. With these changes, I want to end it, everyone gets: students – passing and adequate calling; universities and professors – autonomy and responsibility; National Council – democracy and a larger number, and as far as society is concerned – proposed changes and additions, I conclude, meet the needs of society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41365	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41366	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers and co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think these amendments to the proposed law are quite fine and may have been some months earlier, but June is the last month, some, when it makes sense to get into these changes, because they are also getting into significant activities that will follow in June, and September, and in October, therefore, the beginning of the new school year. First of all, I'd like to present my personal vision and more suggestions than observations, normally, and our party vision regarding the proposed amendments to this law. I would first refer to Article 10 that is changing, which is essentially Article 2 of the proposed amendments, and that is to say point 1) where it is defined that the National Council should have 12 members from the order of regular professors, top scientists, well, then, in a capital letter – in calling scientific advisor. I suppose the promoter wanted these changes to allow members of the Scientific Council to also be scientific research workers, therefore, persons with scientific calling. I support that, but as you define it, there is no firm guarantee that even respected scientific researchers, with scientific titles, will be members of the National Council. A similar amendment, two or three months ago, made by the Ministry of Science, where it also defined that there should be six prominent researchers, regular professors or scientific advisors at the National Council for Scientific Research, thus defined as three professors and three scientific advisers. My proposal on this, if the Proposer agrees, is to propose to the Committee, if no similar amendment is given, to redefined a little bit, to give the possibility and secure guarantee that at least one third, i.e. Four researchers will be from the ranks of scientific workers with the call of a scientific advisor, and two-thirds will be regular professors. I'm saying it's half-and-half, but if there's a good intention, then nothing's gonna break this proposal, but it's still going to differentiate so there'll be people with a scientific calling on the National Council. Furthermore, what I want to ask and what I want to discuss is increasing the number of members of the National Council to 21 members, with two students who have been delegated to the Student Conference for a period of two years, and they will decide at the National Council on Points 7 to 11. I ask – are they members of the National Council or are they associated members, as well as will they only be called when discussing these student issues? My suggestion is that they get the status of regular members, and in the decision-making process at the National Council, normally, they will decide on those points and those problems that are of interest to students, as we have in election committees. In calling on electoral bodies, docents can't choose extraordinary or regular professors, well, so here students can't decide on some strategic issues related to education, but I think it would be nicer for students to be members of the National Council, not like this. They'll decide some things, but essentially, they're not members because they don't get into those 21. So this is my proposal for a proposal to consider whether it makes any sense to redefine it in some way. Then, what I want to say is about accreditation and, above all, it's good to get into accreditation. A significant number of colleges have already accredited their curricula, programmes, it must be more than two-thirds and all new colleges, in fact, by introducing new teaching processes must pass accreditation. The only thing that I think is controversial is that if honest data could only be presented as to what is, first of all, the state universities and the state colleges, is it now that all colleges and those who have passed the accreditation meet this condition that they have 70% of teachers in a permanent working relationship with at least 70% of active classes? Something similar has been defined in the previous law, a different formulation. I support that, but I'm afraid it's not even like that at state schools, especially at private universities and colleges. I think it's a real problem, and this bill doesn't define it again, it's equivalent and translation from scientific to teaching, where it would allow those who want to go from science to teaching that they can do it easily, not go over the whole selection procedure again, especially when selecting someone from the scientific calling to the teaching almost regularly gets a lower teaching term than he had the current scientific calling. I'm saying this from personal experience, I've been through it myself. I think my colleague Mitrovic will absolutely support my proposal and as a man who was once at the Ministry of Science, so my proposal – that if these amendments of the law are already not done, it is defined in some subsequent changes. Because, again, the amendments to the law on science set up this equivalence and, there, in scientific research, it respects itself. So, a regular professor is funded as well as a scientific advisor and so on by lower names. But when translated from scientific to teaching, then problems arise, and precisely by overcoming this problem, 70 percent of all staff would be more easily executed and executed. Next, what I want to say is about doctorate science, and here I'm putting a grudge on the promoter that he left and made an exception that a doctoral dissertation can be reported by someone who has a specialty. This, above all, refers to persons who have completed medical studies, so that with specialization they can report doctoral dissertation, even doctoral studies, but provided they have published works in world’s top magazines. That sounds nice, but we know, Mr. Minister, both you and your associates, and me, that today from our country is very difficult to publish works in top-notch world magazines and that this is something that just stands declared as a possibility. Because if there's a doctor who has a specialty who's extremely talented, well, I guess that medical school will include him as a teacher and an associate, and let him go the other way, and, no, make an exception like this. You know, sometimes with specialization, he could apply for a doctorate and get a Ph.D. That was suspended later. Now he's making an exception to doctors. I mean, neither does such a formula give them any special convenience, and on the other hand, there are some exceptions that I think are unnecessary. Furthermore, about the preparation process and the conditions for the defence of dissertation – it is quite fine to edit it with a general act of university and university. This has been the case so far and there has been a clearly prescribed procedure since the application, from the establishment of the Commission for the assessment of the fulfilment of candidate conditions and the proposed thesis, to the verification at the university. I don't see the need for the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science to give a special opinion about the procedure if it is legally carried out. It was taken out here yesterday from your apartment, Minister, and also from Professor Shami, that 148 candidates were doctored in one year. It's, absolutely, to say, and the data, but also the obligation to send an inspection there and to see how it's possible to do such a thing. Well, no graduates, most college students, no 148 in a year, let alone doctoral dissertation?- I'm sorry. It's some kind of abuse, something done under the law, past regulations, and requires the need to examine it. It shouldn't be a rapper, now some other supervisors are set up in terms of criteria. But, ultimately, if there are sincere intentions in the procedure, I don't see any interference that neither the Ministry of Education nor the Sciences agree to this procedure in conducting and preparing doctoral applications and doctoral dissertation. Furthermore, what I'm trying to say is about the introduction of bank guarantees, first of all this concerns private universities and universities. I think that's okay, and I'm willing to suggest that you increase this amount by 10%. If you want to secure a serious guarantee then it should be more than 10%, because the 10%, you know, alone, will not allow the normal completion of the study of all students who enrolled in that university or university. My proposal, Minister, is to increase this to at least 30%, so to those private universities, universities, and above all universities that have universities, if they want to seriously improve teaching and develop that university, it won't be a problem to provide that guarantee. But to really be in the right amount, and not like this, these 10% are symbolic and more just some, conditionally, threat, but they will not contribute more seriously to the solution to the possible problems that can arise if that university or university loses the conditions to exist, and then they will find themselves in the problem of those children, which their parents have enrolled in such colleges and universities. Furthermore, what I want to say is about the election of assistants. I think this reform, which has been going since 2005 and so on, has affected the most that most of our colleges have run out of youth. Something serious must be done to receive, in a significant number, young people, who will normally, normally, meet the conditions, have an average rating and enroll in doctoral studies. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science must find ways to finance all those who are in doctoral studies, normally, colleges that show their needs, and I know for sure that a large number of universities in recent years have not received young researchers, the first one that had no own resources, and it was not properly resolved to finance doctoral studies. It hasn't been solved this year, and these studies are expensive. So, most of those kids who finished college don't have the money to enroll themselves, so, then, some student accepts to be a classmate, usually when a mentor who's going to do the dissertation invites him to be his assistant, and most of the time they're some symbolic fees. I think there's got to be some real funding for assistants in colleges. It should be returned to some earlier times where there were more assistants than teachers. Today we have some classes or cathedrals only professors and most of them regular, and the doctor is rare, and the assistant has no hints, so it has to be dealt with in a slightly better and different way. You in your changes state that a doctoral study student can make a fee for studying under conditions, in a manner determined by the minister. It's a fact, but these criteria should be disclosed to colleges as soon as possible, to know what the criteria will be, that someone who's in doctoral studies will be paid and that he can be a co-worker for three or six years until he's doctored. As for the exams, you suggest increasing the test deadlines to six. I think you will agree that this will not significantly increase the number of exams passed, and it can make a serious problem by not defining in this proposal the deadlines examined, as you have defined in the previous bill. And we know that it's five regulars, and the test period can be after the course of the course. Therefore, the subject that was heard by January 15th can be held in January-February, March, April, May and June, possibly July, September etc. So there's a limited number of deadlines. We know that any introduction of the test period interferes with teaching that week or there is no teaching, no exercise, which can not provide those 15 weeks of teaching. Well, it's a good idea that October 10th is the day "d" for the final exam, but we know that many colleges have "October two," it goes on until the end of October, and then class starts in November. Maybe you should have defined whether it's a July deadline, maybe by 15-20 July, even though there's new students in July and there's a lot of work to do, or it's going to be "April Two," because we have a May month where we celebrate a week and so on. You should have figured it out, not let the colleges decide for themselves, because it's going to be possible to introduce it, but that sixth test period is going to disrupt the class. And since my colleague has something else to say, I want to say something about equalising deadlines to defend doctoral dissertation, those who have a master's degree and doctoral studies. You have stated here in your changes that the deadline for the completion of the PhD of those who enrolled in doctoral studies is 2014-2015, for the Master's degree in 2015-2016. I think you've made a mistake, you should've evened out that deadline, or you could've cut the magistrates short, or you could've extended these in doctoral studies. Whoever's in doctoral studies, he needs to pass his exams and do a doctorate. The one who has a master's degree, he just has a doctor's dissertation, and he's got a year longer. Think about it, I suggest that it be extended to those who are in doctoral studies to be a period of 2015-2016, as it was given to the magistrates and then to draw the line, to know that the law must be respected. In the end, we certainly support this increase in norms, i.e. setting a standard of 48 ESPB points for the 2009-2010 school year and for the 2010-2011 school year. This will allow students to stabilise in this reform, but I think reform must mean a reduction in the number of cases, because most of the colleges have increased the number of cases by 50 and even 100% compared to some previous times. It's illogical, at my university, when I was finishing, there were 34 exams, and now, Malten, it's close to 60 exams. It's not reform, it's increasing the number of exams. The implementation of practical training in some universities has been caused by the transition and transformation that there are no more social farms, social agricultural land, especially in the field of biotechnical sciences. Finally, the involvement of young researchers in research and doctoral work, those in doctoral studies, must be included in projects. We have, now, since January 1st a new research cycle. These young people should be fully involved. The amount of their earnings is very symbolic, should be considered increasing and resolving other existential issues. It's the only way we can keep young people in colleges, institutes and stop this drain of young brains. We all know how many young people have gone and the best students abroad to work and school. That's it, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41367	The word is from Ambassador Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41368	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow MPs have already given clear support to this bill's proposal and made an argument as to why it should be supported. For me, for this short period of time, I have three questions left to raise. Before that, I want to point to the next one. In 2005, when the Law on Higher Education was adopted, when the start of a reform of higher education was marked, when the objectives in that area were set, I would like to say that the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Law is actually on the track. Why? The goals that have been established, it's some kind of barbarian that's been stabbed somewhere in a place that's been trying, to which it's going. It is this bill that is another step towards this, a step that is the practice, which is what life has imposed, and in this sense they have offered a proposal for these amendments and additions. It's a good thing it's because the law doesn't touch the higher education system. It's a good thing that's the case, because the higher education system is older than any government, even mine. I'm just going to explain and add an argument on three questions. The first question concerns the quality of education. The one who needs to worry about it most, the top expert body is the National Council for Higher Education. The Proposer offers a solution that increases the representativeness of this council, including, in our opinion, good, and the institutes as an integral part of higher education, giving the possibility that scientific advisors can also be elected and, of course, this time includes students as equal members of the board on issues that are of interest to students. I think it deserves absolute support. The second thing I want to point out is, it's when you talk about students. They're still the center of events. In the goals of higher education, one of the goals is to involve students in the process of higher education as a partner. I think they're quite esteemed here, which is good, the needs of students, and I'm just going to say what they are, three or four examples. First, as I said before, including students as equal members of the National Council. Secondly, I think it's one of the greatest values, which has been very clearly declared by the Proposer, that the state is funding those who are successful. Whether it's budgetary, whether it's self-financing, it doesn't matter anymore, it matters if he's a good student, or if he's successful. That's why there's an opportunity to enroll all those who have 60 points if they enter that quota, whether it was budgetary or not. I think that's one of the greatest advantages. Of course, we support absolutely the fact that during this period and the conditions of implementation of the reform and the severe economic crisis, we give students two more years to sign up as budgetary and 48 points, and the number of test deadlines has been increased on six test deadlines. What is also important is important for us socialists, because when it comes to this subject everything reminds me of that sentence – we are all a bit of a socialist, it is important that the Ministry assumes responsibility when it comes to the level of tuition. It remains to be determined by the colleges, but according to the ministry's previous opinion. What does that mean in our opinion? That the ministry takes responsibility in this sense to be realistic, objective, to be economically sustainable, but also, importantly, socially sustainable. Then she makes sense and we give her full support in this proposal. I'm touching the third question - the means. It is one of the few laws that requires an increase in funds in several places, but says -- it will not be burdened, no additional funding is sought, but on the burden of the current funds of the ministry. This is for the full commendation, starting with those members of the National Council and conference, funding of work, conferences of university, academic, student conferences, etc. I think it's for absolute commendation. They're bigger funds, but not bigger budgets, but on the Ministry's burden. In the end, I want to make two concrete proposals. Mr. Minister, I've been going from knowing you for a long time, I know you're not vain, I know that you respect Parliament very much, and I know that it doesn't matter who you suggest, and much more importantly what it proposes. I invite you to pay good attention to all the amendments that have been submitted, to observe them from that angle and to respect all those that you can, who are in this direction, because we care that this law has the greatest support. One more thing, please, take another look at the principles of education. You have abolished a point there that speaks of European and national traditions and introduced another one that speaks of the values of cultural heritage. Please be each other. In the end, please, don't be other major socialists than us, let the state assume the obligation to fund all master and doctoral studies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41369	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. I give my word to Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I say anything about amendments to the Law on Higher Education, allow me just one little period. A few moments ago in The Hague tribunal, a verdict was announced to the seven Republika Srpska Army officers. Two officers were sentenced to life imprisonment, and five officers received a total of 89 years in prison for allegedly participating in the Srebrenica genocide. These are, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the first bitter fruits of the Declaration adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which took responsibility in the Republic of Serbia for something that did not happen in Srebrenica. We can expect similar decisions, very unfavourable for both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41371	I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41372	Here, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'll be back on the subject. Mr. Minister, I think you know that the concept of higher education, which was adopted by the 2005 Higher Education Act, is actually the concept of higher education that exists in American private colleges. In June 1999, the famous session, namely a famous meeting of EU education ministers, was held. As a result of the meeting, a document was brought in which now in the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to higher education, there is, Malta, the status of the holy book, which is the famous Bologna Declaration. On the basis of these principles of the Bologna Declaration, in 2005, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Higher Education, where many of the solutions contained in the Law on Higher Education are neither directly nor indirectly mentioned nor treated with the Bologna Declaration. Many of what exists today in the high education system of the Republic of Serbia has no direct link to the principles contained in the Bologna Declaration, but has become modern every newspaper, so it is positive or negative, in a system of higher education of the Republic of Serbia to call the 'Bolonjski' newspaper. As my esteemed colleague Goran Mihajlovic said, when all the results of our university's reform are collected and taken away from us since 2005, one single conclusion can be drawn, which is that all these reforms have brought more harm to someone. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education that we are talking about today, it is incomprehensible to change the formulation in Article 4. The law on higher education is said to be one of the principles of higher education – respecting the humanistic and democratic universal values of cultural heritage. We believe that it was a much better previous formulation, which is, to respect the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. Don't forget, Mr. Minister, we're passing the Law on High Education of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary in law to specify that it is humanistic traditions, primarily national and above all European, because the Serbian people were and remained European people, and its culture and its cultural heritage are an integral part of the European tradition and European cultural heritage. What is also problematic in the amendments to the Law on Higher Education is Article 16. Now, to some extent, you're liberalizing the number of teachers needed to get a higher education facility to work. So far, there has been a principle, in the current Law on Higher Education, that a higher education institution can function if there are teachers who work 70% of their working hours compared to the number of courses in that higher education facility. The principle is now changing, and it is said that the higher education institution meets the legal requirements if it has teachers in full-time working relationship to perform at least 70% of active classes on the study programme. So far, it has been sought against the total number of cases, and now insists on an active follow-up on the study programme. What in practice can this provision cause? It can lead to certain higher education institutions having a scandalous small number of teachers, to have fewer teachers, for example, than in a primary or secondary school. Perhaps it would be good, Mr. Minister, to consider that the law defines a fixed number, a minimum fixed number of teachers that a higher education institution must have full-time employees, so that we don't happen to have higher education institutions with five, three, seven teachers. Then, to a large extent, the credibility of the teaching process at such a higher education facility is at stake. It would also be good, Mr. Minister, to consider something that exists in the EU. It is a directive of the European Parliament in 2005, which requires national EU law to pass a law on so-called regulated professions. What's this about? When it comes to individual sciences, EU Member States for higher education institutions that educate staff from these scientific areas prescribe stricter conditions for teaching, than for other scientific areas, in particular, stricter conditions for the work of higher education institutions in the field, for example, legal sciences, pedagogy and medicine are prescribed in the EU. In the Republic of Serbia, according to this law and under the existing 2005 law, all higher education institutions are equal in terms of the conditions they must meet, regardless of what scientific activity, or from which areas people are educated. You have another case, say, in the United States. And there are private colleges, there are private law schools, but you can't be enrolled in an American bar directory if you haven't finished a few of the most prestigious, first of all, state law schools. You finish whatever you want now, but if you want to be a lawyer in the U.S., you have to finish a certain college. It would be good, Mr. Minister, to adopt such a positive practice that exists both in the EU and the United States. It's especially important when it comes to medicine. Don't make it happen to us that we're training people who will formally be doctors, who will formally have a degree in finishing some medical school, who tomorrow won't know where the kidney is and where the appendix is. All of this can be corrected, and mistakes in the trial, and errors in the process of education of children etc., but these medical mistakes can hardly be corrected and very often these medical errors can have fatal consequences. If you have noticed in the last few years, these medical mistakes are, unfortunately, increasingly common in the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying it's just an educational process. We have good medical schools. Probably there are other good reasons, but I'm afraid that these medical mistakes will be much more, if we have hyperproduction, let's say, doctors who will finish medical studies in any private colleges. Tomorrow to reach out to them, you can only pray to God to get out of that office alive. It would be good to consider adopting this directive of the European Parliament and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Due to lack of time, it is difficult to elaborate any shortcomings in existing changes and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Just one small detail – when it comes to giving the teaching of emeritus, what can happen now in this solution that has been adopted in the amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education is the following: a man, a prominent professor, a teacher, a scientific worker, for years working at a university or an institute and really raising the reputation of a higher education institution and becoming known in scientific circles and in the Republic of Serbia and outside the Republic of Serbia, perhaps a year before retirement he is employed in a private university. Now this private college has the right to declare such a man a professor of emeritus and practically capitalizes the entire teaching and scientific work of that man who happened and who was achieved in another higher education institution, by the rule of state. We don't think that's a fair solution. It must be prescribed that the one who is appointed, or declared professor of emeritus, must work for a certain number of years in an institution that declares him a professor of emeritus, so that it does not happen if some newly-compromised private college says - here, we have a professor of emeritus. What he's been doing for 40-50 years at some prestigious state college doesn't matter at all. Now, they take him in and say, "This is what kind of personnel we have. By doing so, of course, students, the scientific public can be led astray. What is also a problem, when it comes to assistants, you propose the following – a higher education institution is choosing to call an assistant doctoral student who has completed previous levels of study with a total average score of at least eight and which shows a meaning for teaching work. Then, you change attitude 2 – under the condition of Article 1, a higher education institution can choose to call an assistant and master of science, or a master of art who accepts the subject of doctoral dissertation. It's actually the same case. The one who accepted the topic of doctoral dissertation, who had previously acquired an academic master's degree in science, is a doctoral student. There's no need to separate these two cases, because it's a completely identical situation. When it comes to exams, you say in article 90 – the exam is unique and is passed orally, in writing, or in practice. This in practice can lead to different interpretations. Does this mean that the exams will only be taken orally, in writing or in practice? Or is the university able to choose, so to speak – will be placed both orally and writtenly and practically? These commas between these words: "ual, written, or practical", in practice can really lead to different interpretations. All in all, Mr. Minister, because of the lack of time, what can be said is the following – a reform that has been introduced, i.e. being implemented in the Republic of Serbia since 2005, has in practice led to the following: we now have one inflation of higher education institutions in Serbia. I really don't mind private colleges, or private universities. But the fact is, and you know it well, Mr. Minister, that the quality of teaching, that the criteria for passing exams at certain private higher education institutions are scandalously low. I can't be convinced that a student can pass 10 exams within one test period and that almost every exam gets the highest test grade. We have smart and talented children, hard-working children, but in practice it's very difficult for someone to really have that degree of knowledge and that degree of intellectual ability to pass 10 exams within one test period. Also, you have to make sure, Mr. Minister, that the state has to plan what number of personnel it needs at some time interval. Now we've got one more inflation of colleges that enrolls minors in the same kind of staff. You have them everywhere, in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, in Nis, and there are them in smaller places. Now they're all lawyers, now they're all administration experts, now they're all some banking experts, management experts. The question is, where are these kids going to work tomorrow? You know, it's not just a matter of formally giving someone a degree in college. Tomorrow, that young man will have to work somewhere. Unfortunately, there seems to be no room in the Republic of Serbia for such a number of personnel, essentially, from identical areas. There's nowhere to hire such experts for the state administration, for consulting, for management? Where are these people going to work? You'll have a problem tomorrow. He's going to say, I'm a college graduate, I've invested my years, money, me or my parents, it doesn't matter at all. I expect the state to give me a job now. Where are these people going to work? The state can hardly guarantee everyone jobs. One part of those children must have wealthy parents who can provide them with jobs in their private companies. But I'm sure most of these young people are without rich parents. They'll ask the state to provide them with jobs. The state will have a hard time doing that. On the other hand, there is, Mr. Minister, one problem I think you're fully aware of. We have in the Republic of Serbia universities that educate people for some educational profiles that are completely artificial. Until a while ago, you had a college in Novi Sad called, believed or not – Faculty of Directors. His name's changed and he doesn't call himself that anymore. Basically, it's the kind of staff that goes to school. I'm really curious now what kind of calling does a college graduate get? What, the graduate director?- I'm sorry. That means that this man can't do anything else in life because from his educational profile, the only thing he can do is be the director. That's ridiculous. That's ridiculous. That's scandalous. Unfortunately, it happens in the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, the criteria are unequal for both state and private universities. They have completely reduced the level of higher education in the Republic of Serbia. There are quality, there are renowned private higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia, there really are. But there are others who are only in the form of higher education institutions, and in practice, criteria are lower than in high schools, that's a fact, Mr. Minister, which your ministry must face. You must not look at the accreditation process only if the higher education institution formally meets the requirements for accreditation, whether there are enough teachers, sufficient space, sufficient computer numbers, etc., sufficient number of study programs, that's all form. You need to control the quality of teaching at higher education institutions. Don't let what's happening to us now happen to us, to educate half-educated half-intellectuals. These people won't be worth anything tomorrow, nor will they be able to work in state authorities, not in business, not in private companies. There will be no good lawyers, no good economists, no good doctors. With people like that, we'll only have a problem. These people will live in false belief that they are intellectuals, that they know something, and in fact the level of their knowledge will be very often lower than some good student who ended up with the success of high school, but unfortunately, there's no money to study. These are all the problems, Mr. Minister, which your ministry must face. Don't rush into higher education reforms. What is the impression of the Serbian Radical Party is that some non-good solutions are recited in the Law on Higher Education, and in this amended law on higher education. And what's good, it's left aside. Finally, keep in mind, Mr. Minister, the good colleges in the EU, with centuries-old tradition, did not accept everything offered under the Bologna Declaration, but rather made sure that they only took what could improve the quality of the teaching process. We don't have any criteria, whatever comes to mind, and I don't think of you, Mr. Minister, of all kinds of higher education experts, it's called the "bolon principle" that has to be introduced into the law. What are the practical consequences – no one thinks about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41373	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41374	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, representatives of the Government, is today on the agenda of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. What is characteristic, I will join the criticisms of my colleagues, Mr. Shami and Mrs. Milice Vojić-Markovic, that we have received this bill very late and that it is a bad practice, but it is a good practice, Mr. Minister, that you visited our MP club and with your expert team elaborated and explained the essence of this law. Otherwise, the essence of accepting this law is to change the climate of education and higher education itself, in order to create another atmosphere. We know for a fact that education starts from preschool, all through adulthood, so if you want it your whole life. That's why we have a great role to play in making legal assumptions about our generations, our current students, their teachers. Kant himself said that for a perspective society, first of all, educated people, wise people, people who would know how to lead a democratic society to a perspective. A logical question arises – is Serbia such a society or is it a country of absurdity and paradox? At this point in Serbia, according to some statistics, there are 6.5% of academic citizens. It's saying that twice as much we're missing higher and more educated personnel for some of our future economy's work. Serbia currently has seven state universities and 87 universities where 190 students are educated. We have nine private universities and 53 colleges where another 30 students are educated and that's a total of 220 students. According to some of the world’s criteria, one million people are coming to a university. Serbia does not meet these conditions, but I fear we will be affected by Romanian syndrome; Romanians have opened up a large number of private colleges after a certain time, due to lack of expert staff, due to poor teaching, have closed those colleges. Let's explain to the citizens why these private colleges are opening. It's a big profit to open a private college. If you have a thousand students at a private university and they pay an average scholarship of 1,000 euros, it is a million euros a year. A certain number of funds goes to preserve the building, pay the teachers, so the larger amount remains exactly the founder of the university. In this regard, the issue of accreditation of private universities should be asked. What we want to share here with you is that representatives sitting in CONUSU are members of the university who are not accredited and participate in the accreditation of certain universities and universities. Mr. Minister, we've heard we're going to get a tycoon bridge, so I'm afraid we're going to have a tycoon university in the future. That's how devastating it is for Serbia. We must also note, Mr. Minister, that Serbia is 132 high in the number of brain drains, the most students who could not find a job in Serbia, an adequate job or a job in the profession. Students from state universities leave Serbia the most. Over 90% of university students leave the way of Europe, America and so on. When it comes to the law, you yourself have mentioned that this law has been done by a commission composed of respected people, academic citizens. The students took part in it. We're glad you accepted our idea, Mr. Minister, from the previous draft of our higher education law, where all students are equal. The one where we look at our objections is primarily about choosing the National Council of Higher Education. That's what the esteemed colleague of professors was talking about. Zoran Shami and I will make a note. We think it's seven government representatives and so much. That's one-third of the future council. Since it's one control package, and we're talking about university autonomy, I think it's a number and how big and that number needs to be reduced. The second thing, we also asked, since the Assembly is choosing this national council, to propose 50% more candidates to vote for them, not to vote for them, because there can be confusion in the ruling majority itself, not to agree on any candidate and not to pass one or two candidates, then the Council does not work at full capacity. It's a suggestion we've submitted as amendments. I hope you'll consider it and accept it. Perhaps our biggest regret, Mr. Minister, is that a few months ago we adopted the Statute of Vojvodina here, that is. The ruling majority adopted the Statute of Vojvodina and transferred certain responsibilities from the field of enlightenment to the AP Vojvodina. You continue to make concessions to the AP Vojvodina. We're extremely sorry that this is happening, because, in fact, in another period, we're going to have a parallel system of education. Finally, as I would have finished, Mr. Minister, the effects of this new bill will primarily be given to the academic public, and what we need to hear is the voice of students who will give positive and negative criticism about this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41375	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41376	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, Professor Zoran Shami has rightly pointed to amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, that it is not a political law, but that there are still two members who have political elements in them. It is a member who speaks of further transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina and a member who speaks about the composition of the National Council, it is his remark on the provision that the Government chooses a third of the members of the Council. I would also like to add to my consideration that there is one member, better said famous point 5) that has an ideological characteristic, i.e. ideological-national, and also in the ultimate convention ideological-political, because it can produce undesirable national or political-state consequences. The change in point 5 deserves further consideration, because it, as I pointed out earlier, will cause fatal consequences for the survival of national and traditional but also traditional-European in Serbia's education system. I mentioned the famous point 5 of Article 4 before, in a transcript with Mr. Minister Obradovic, when asking a parliamentary question on the analytical work at individual universities in Serbia, with an emphasis on the Union Law Faculty, that, as I recall, happened in May 2009. Because of the public, I want to reiterate some new moments relating to the mentioned member and the disputed point. In my own opinion, I was saying that a new formulation of Article 1. The bill goes towards further globalisation of higher education and it clearly represents further alignment with the anti-European 'Bolonian' model of study, which abolishes traditional, pedagogical, scientific values, i.e. I was saying that such a formulation is not only a national, educational and wider cultural tradition but also an old European university tradition. Serbia's national education has been particularly affected by so-called new universal values since the time of the five-octobar political changes. Humanistic sciences are under attack, especially history, literature and linguistics. On a special blow were history textbooks, which in an exact scientific way revised the history of the red winner and refuted false historical stereotypes with true facts. I think it is necessary to protect traditional, educational, cultural and religious values from anti-European neoliberal movements. Such ideology goes exactly in the anti-European direction of denying essential, European, moral, national, cultural and religious values. It destroys traditional churches and religious organizations, destroys traditional peoples from which it creates new European nations, creates a subculture of the godless avant-garde, modernist, new-European, cultural significance. Analytical values are often presented to students of Serbian universities and are present in the course of several international universities. And it's precisely because of them that they're trying to execute this, in my opinion, key change in Article 5. In this lofty home, I mentioned in my time an international strategy in the work of a few universities and particularly anal and neoliberal strategy of the Law Faculty of Union. In my time, Mr. Minister, I asked you a question – how is it possible that the Law Faculty of the University of Union, as an international law institution that destroys traditional Serbian legal science, works legally in the state of Serbia? It is my responsibility that this educational and scientific institution performs its work in accordance with the law, guaranteed by the principle of academic freedoms, under which, in accordance with Article 5. The law implies freedom of scientific research and artistic creation, including freedom of research, public presentation of scientific results and artistic achievements, freedom of choice of methods, interpretation of teaching content and freedom of choice of study programmes. So, under the principle of academic freedoms, the 2005 Higher Education Act does not provide for free, better said, irresponsible endangerment of state and national foundations, traditional science, traditional morality. In my opinion, uncontrollable academic freedoms can contribute to anarchy in society. Therefore, it is necessary and occasional intervention of the state administration, i.e. the competent minister, who should represent in his portfolio the highest state authority, which is, in fact, achieved to remind myself, strict compliance with state law. Ministers should be guided exclusively by the interests of the service, the interests of the state's survival. Educational work can, especially in young people, develop a patriotic feeling that strengthens national and national unity through national education. This country seems to have forgotten the elemental national-enlightenment work before the encounter of universal neoliberal aspirations. The so-called academic freedoms in terms of full national and state-of-the-art irresponsibility will be fully achieved by amending the existing formulation in point 5 of the 2005 Higher Education Act. When I asked this mentioned parliamentary question in May 2009, I pointed out that a member of the law, which speaks to the principles of higher education, at point 5, requires respect for the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. That point in the law, unfortunately, is not more detailed. It is just a lack of respect for national traditions, as I pointed out in my parliamentary question at the time, that already mentioned the Law Faculty "Union" and several other universities, such as individual professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences, the State Law Faculty, individual professors of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade and others. Mr Minister, in my previous discussions, I have found that the functioning of the colleges mentioned is contrary to the said provision of Article 5, which requires that the work of higher education be carried out with respect for the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. It is obvious that after such remarks, but also the remarks of other MPs, paragraph 5, the existing formulation of someone in the country began to disturb them. The so-called academic freedoms, in terms of full national and state-of-the-art irresponsibility in university practice, will be fully achieved by abolishing the formulation set out in point 5 of the Law on Higher Education and by adopting the new formulation set out in the Amendment Law. Mr Minister, in the end, after eradicating this formula point 5) The draft law amending the Law on Higher Education for us traditionalists, national-liberals, respecters of traditional Europe, Europe of nations, and opponents of an international Europe of the region, will give rise to the final legal argument regarding respect for the humanistic and democratic values of the European and especially national traditions. We, traditionalists, will not have, therefore, after all, a legal relationship in cases where we defend basic national and state policies in education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41377	The word has the People's MP Milan Knezevic, please. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41378	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now to fit in in these five minutes, and I'll try to tell you about some segments that my colleagues from the Prosperity Club have not told Serbia, to fill in that part, and to cover the whole of these amendments and supplement the law. There, we, like the Serbian Progressive Party, also have a general objection to this amendment of the law, where point 5 is now being formulated in a new way, which is being kicked out of the previous definition of 'national tradition', so we think the previous solution is much better. We should not erase in these conditions in high education in our country this qualification of 'national traditions', of course, with respect for all humanistic and democratic values, which, in general, exist in society. Therefore, we agree that it should remain. As far as the National Council is concerned, we also have an objection, because we think that an unnecessary number of members is involved, it is now proposed that this body has 21 members. The government has explained in its explanation that this increase gives much greater dignity and professional qualifications to the National Council. We, as a party, have the same concern about this increase; the government suggests six members, with one representative of AP Kosovo and Metohija, from the University of Pristina based in Kosovo Mitrovica, and one member is proposed by the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina, which is the seventh, so of the 21st, seven members has the government. It certainly needs to be one greater influence now that, one independence of the National Council and to reduce fear. Because anyway, we have objections from the relevant European committees that our national council is not independent enough. And if the state finances, it gives money, especially to these state universities, and it should have influence, but in terms of doctrinal, professional quality control, without political colour. What further raises little suspicion, and I have not seen any of the previous MPs comment, is that here in article 14, and the old member is 52, when the government determines members of the board of higher education institutions, whose founder, in the criteria for the appointment of those members of the council, says that there remains only one condition that – a member of the council cannot be a person employed in that higher education institution or body of the administration responsible for the field of education. Now a few elements have been deleted, there was a criterion earlier that a member of the council could not be a person elected, appointed or appointed to office in a state body, a territorial autonomy body or local self-government, or elected to the political party's authority. Whether erasing these conditions implies, and certainly implies, that the government will be able to appoint a member of the council of a higher education institution belonging to the chairmanship of a party. I think we should all agree that education and education is something and it's said, which is not a party segment and element. These are doctrinal attitudes of education that are universal and there, practically, should not be political coloration. But these criteria that have been deleted here remain for the National Council. As soon as this is deleted as a criteria for appointing, it triggers thinking that a member of the council may be appointed from local self-government, from some political party, which is not good. In the same article, if it is equal in education, higher education institutions, whether established by a state or by private persons, it should also be a uniform solution for the composition of the advice. Here is the view that – the number of members and the composition of the council of a higher education institution whose founder is not the Republic – is governed by the statute of the higher education institution. Personally, we don't think that's good. Why? That high school facility can say three members, which is not good. Just in the end, you've heard a lot of criticism at the expense of private colleges. It's unnecessary. However, basic principles as well as state principles should be adopted. And on the private side there are three interested parties... (President: Mr. Prince, bring the end. )......................................................................................................... Let me finish: Founder, students and employees. It takes the same composition to be here. There will be no threat to any financial and ownership rights of private universities. So we're taking a step towards suppressing some kind of negative relationship to private colleges. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41379	Thank you. The People's MP Marina Ragush has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41380	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here is the fundamental question – why reform of higher education and education in Serbia, unless we can put a student in a central position, when it comes to the educational process? I've come across several times, Mr. Minister, on your statements about what the Ministry is trying to do, which is worth the attention and the value of any praise, but I really do join the other colleagues when they talk about formal changes, not fundamentally. Do you know what it's like inside a student's life? So he doesn't have internal mobility and can't think about external mobility. He can't advance knowledge. He has daily existential problems. What's even more problematic, students who don't have original funding, who are scholarships, their scholarships are taxed. So what is really a fundamental question – what will we do if reforms start from the last stages and not from the beginning? So we're definitely just paying attention to the form, not the essence. If the point is that students should all be subordinated and that we expect the generations coming out of the university in Serbia today to be in the perspective of the intellectual elite, then this reform is indeed a clear failure. You don't have agreements between colleges when it comes to the Bologna Process on internal mobility. So if one student wants to become an expert, let's say, at doctoral studies in a particular field, for example, human rights, his mother's college might be philosophical, he should, of course, pass some exams at law school. He can't do that because there's no memorandum of agreement between the two colleges. He can't do it because he's tripping, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, about bureaucratic problems, about an independent interpretation of the college of how to conduct the 'bolon process'. So, if a student is the center of attention of the Ministry of Education, which is for every praise, I tell you that in real, real life, a student is mostly the victim of wrong interpretations, poor study programs, overworked programs, and you end up having low pass-by, you have students who first identify themselves, if they can, for private universities, because there criteria are much lighter, much lower, but in the perspective, in the end, you have masters, doctors, therefore, members of a real intellectual elite in the perspective of a Serbian society who, unfortunately, can't even realize their working-law status within the institutions of this system. Tell me, who, from what profile, does the Ministry have any information on how many students are employed in its area? How many students from our university can respond to criteria, say, developed European and world universities? Tell me, does the National Employment Service recognise master status? Is there, say, a competition being called for a master in a particular area? Tell me -- how do internal or external mobility take place, when we have a case that respected Belgrade University professors, when they take up some of our students go outside and some foreign students come to us, too, to trip about terrible bureaucratic problems? Five years later, since the establishment of the Bologna atmosphere in the Serbian academic space, you have several destroyed academic generations. You have graduate students who are overloaded, you have masters who don't know what to do with their master titles and you have doctors who obviously can't find their jobs within this space. How do they get those calls? As college graduates and in what way they study, you should perhaps consult students and the "student parliament" and, say, follow the surveys that are regularly conducted within Belgrade and other universities within the intellectual space of the Serbian state. And then you'll find what I'm talking about. With circumstances, I often contact academics and what I have to tell you, if everything has to be within the scope of one academic citizen achieving the best knowledge that needs to be implemented in practice, he learns and lays what is essentially very little about his thesis at master studies and doctoral studies. And that's what it says about student programs. It also says that those who have accepted the standard that you accept, which is the Bologna Declaration, cannot implement it within our academic space. We're talking about external mobility, we don't have internal mobility, I repeat, because most of the time we're tripping about bureaucratic problems that concern special interpretations of implementation of the Bologna Process within the college itself. I'd like to hear if you have the evaluation of the Bologna Process, here, after five years of implementation, in terms of how it works in practice. I'm very interested in, say, internal mobility. Is it interdisciplinary that this has been implemented because the system of the Bologna Declaration, or the process, if I understand it well, is that you, in relation to what you want to achieve as top-notch knowledge, can interdisciplinaryly, since the study programs are harmonised, collect these knowledge and that everything goes in favor of what is your thesis or what is the defense of your master's work? I'm telling you that it doesn't work in the area of Serbian academic space, it, especially in the field of social science, absolutely doesn't work. We have another problem. What is the subject of many debates are the state's'versus' private universities. If it is allowed to start private universities, if again the student and knowledge center of everything, we cultivate an intellectual elite in the perspective, then you should really answer the question, we have almost received information – how is it possible, for example, that the request for accreditation of the High School of Medicine takes two years? Is that common? It's not. Now I'm going to tell you what history looks like. So, they are located in Belgrade at the address of Statska No. 66. I guess you can't know about all this detail, so I'm telling you now, because some young people have enrolled that High School of Medicine and expect, of course, to take advantage of the knowledge acquired during the learning process. So on June 6, 2008, they applied for accreditation. The accreditation fee was paid to the Ministry of Education on 8 September 2008, amounting to, then, close to 11,000 euros. It has been urgated several times in the Ministry of Education, in terms of asking about the high school sector. A legal representative, a high school lawyer, has repeatedly questioned the Accreditation Commission without success. Then, in writing, you see, they addressed the Minister of Education on 8 October 2008. They addressed the National Council in written form, in April 2010, the Inspection of the Ministry of Education, the Chief Inspector and, finally, there was no answer for more than two years, nor it seems that the Commission ever comes, although the costs of the lease are accumulated. More than 30 teachers who delivered work books are waiting for work. Therefore, there is no justification, neither the Higher Education Act nor the General Administrative Procedure Act nor the deadlines provided for by the laws are respected. You want to talk about the damage that's caused this time? You see, most often, since we've had opportunities here to hear distinguished colleagues who, who you've brought here, are really very detailedly explained to us, my style is a little bit different, I like to talk about specific problems and concrete examples of the meaning of law-making that is either not being implemented, or being badly interpreted, and then the meaning of such a significant process as education reform is being put in place. To understand that there is no bad interpretation – we are as a party to reform that will improve every area of social engagement, in particular improve the daily life of all Serbian citizens. But there's an impression, Mr. Minister, I assume you'll agree, that somehow everything is going wrong. This requires certain assumptions, first material, technical, the existence of institutions of supervision and control, and reform, indeed, very carefully, given that they refer to some people, to some name, name and fate. And there we have to be very careful, and every time the government, unfortunately, falls on one basic exam. We have only a few days, and this is not a European practice, given that you have chosen a European pathway, before such an important debate we get a package of legislative proposals. Can you imagine how much trouble it takes for us to put in, work and effort, to follow all your statements, the working group, the public debate, and to agree on all of this, to consult with student organisations, because we are very serious about this kind of debate and to make this debate a quality and to the benefit of the students, which I suppose is our mutual goal? Of course, this story can have a wide and many broader contexts and, let's say, I conclude with that, all of this, unfortunately, is not surprising and we think that it is indeed a lobby, if in this trend the introduction continues, as the president of Serbia said yesterday, of enlightened absoluteism. But here, in the context of the very intellectual community, what is also fraternizing and I think that the public of Serbia will only now hear, and I think you are one of the ones called to react in that sense, I assume you know who Vasilija Krestic is, an interview by the academics Krestić is banned on Vojvodina Radio TV. So, what is unheard of in today's environment, and we received it through an open letter from journalist Miletić, who did an interview with him and planned, I suppose you know what the lady is doing, that she is doing portraits of prominent, therefore, intellectual workers of this country, the size, as well as Professor Smilja Avramov, she will not be able to do it because the initial interview with academics Vasili Krestić, because he has expressed his views, banned at a media house, and the editor of the programme was immediately fired. So, what we heard yesterday as an announcement of a requirement, which is being put before, apparently, the increasingly less-informed president of Serbia, who is just now learning about the offshore company and the 'undecently wealthy people', is that we seem to be slowly but surely entering the lobby, as he says, 'enlightened absoluteism'. I would say that you are a man of professional honor and that something like this that happened on Vojvodina Radio deserves your comment and a certain reaction, if we live in a democratic society and if everyone, indeed, is entitled to a free word. And, of course, I expect a comment on the part relating to the direct non-compliance of the law and to the direct absence of a reaction from your ministry. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41381	Mrs. Ragush, as I appreciate your business attachment, I'd like to say, to the public, that the subject is to amend and supplement this law. So it's not about a set of education laws. He's been available to you personally, and to all of us since Thursday night. We've had seven days for those changes. It is simply that your potential is ours, our MPs, so that in that time we can get to know the amendments and additions, not the set of laws. It's just, uh, the public works, the information. I give my word to the MP, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering amendments to the Law on Higher Education. This is another one in a series of laws whose changes and additions we make. If we had a statistic in front of us, we would see that this Parliament was much more concerned with the amendments to the law than it was essentially with new laws. Of course, we know we've had changes to the laws we've changed every year. We had a recent law that we changed after six months. The basic version of this law was passed in 2005. We had one change, though cosmetic, somewhere in October 2008 with one explanation that these changes aim to improve the efficiency of the system. I'm not going to say no to amending the law. That is also necessary, because it is practice that points to certain weaknesses in some laws, and that is why. I can believe it, and I want to believe that it was an honest proposal to improve the efficiency of the system. I especially want to believe because I see Mr. Zarko Obradovic as one serious man, and whether the system will really be improved remains to be seen. I am convinced that, as with many other laws we have passed and whose changes and additions we have made, there will be no real improvement. So here's why I'm saying it -- if you look at this law, the first member of these changes and additions, that's the fourth member, if I'm not mistaken, the basic version, we see that something that doesn't need to be changed. First, right, you're changing what doesn't need to change. The SRS intervened with its amendment in this area. Namely, this is about leaving out words – national traditions, and it's about 'universal values of cultural heritage'. Of course, we all know that universal values come from national values. I don't think every country in the world is going to give up its national cultural heritage so easily, either, I don't think the state of Serbia should. Therefore, in this proposal, amendments to the law should be adopted and an amendment to the SRS should remain an old solution when it comes to this. Furthermore, it is evident that in this law we have certain changes and certain newspapers. Let's just say, one of those papers is, some of my colleagues talked about it, but I have to say, an increase in the number of members of the National Council from 16 to 21. We have seen that the members of the National Council of Three Associations are from the order of professors of the university, from the ranks of prominent figures and from the ranks of professors of vocational studies. This number of five, which increases the number of members of the National Council, is divided into only two associations, and for association from the ranks of professors of vocational studies, which has so far had the smallest number of representatives, does not increase that number. This is where the SRS, too, intervened with its amendment. Especially since we know that the high level of professional schools in Serbia is more than 70 such schools, and if this were translated by a student unit, by the number of students and by the number of teachers, it is certainly the largest association. This law is noticeable when it comes to initial accreditation, it's about the necessary quality of study, and that initial quality of study here is treated as some sort of thing. We can't talk about something like a certain thing that's just about to start, at the very beginning. This quality of study should, of course, be pursued, it should be as high and better as possible, but it can only be spoken of when a period of time passes and when we reach a certain experience. To implement this law, there is also a need for additional funding, and this, for the work of these five new members of the National Council, which I have talked about, for the work of the University Conference and for the work of the Academy of Professional Studies. It is said that these funds will not require additional allocations from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but will be redistributed from the Ministry of Education's budget, within section 60. If we know, and we know that the Ministry of Education, if I'm not mistaken, is the most massive ministry, has the largest number of employees, and when we compare, we see that it's the ministry where the minimum salaries are. To be simple, it's the poorest ministry because of its glaringness. If additional costs are predicted within that ministry, no matter how much they were, I'm not going to say big funds, but it will create some more problems, because we all need to know that education workers' salaries haven't increased and haven't changed in the last two years. Furthermore, the law discusses the protection of citizens' social security and then states that the level of tuition is determined after the Ministry of Education's obtained opinion. Principledly, however, there is nothing to object to, but I want to say one other thing. The Ministry of Education should also prescribe a maximum amount of tuition for certain universities and universities, and then stay at universities, or universities and higher schools to coordinate the amounts of their tuitions as they wish, holding on to the specifics of how much it can be, or the maximum limit by the ministry. We know that today's different colleges have different scholarships. That, first of all, depends on the students' interest in certain colleges. Practically, we could say that certain universities have a monopoly because the interest of students is always the greatest for them, but they abuse it, so they prescribe enormously high scholarships. Then, given the social moment and the state of our society, those poorest are not in a position to study, say, medicine, law school, architectural college or some similar colleges where these scholarships are the largest. There's one more thing I'd like to say, and it concerns a member of the 21st law. I have to say that this law has given a lot of attention to the conditions for acquiring professional titles, but still with a large number of professional public and people who are in some way concerned by this problem there is a huge misunderstanding. This applies especially to English-language diplomas, related to international transport, and is similar when it comes to calling in Serbian. I'm just going to mention that there's bachelor, bachelor with fees, bchelr (appl. ), Master, Ph. D, i.e. the corresponding name in the language in which the diploma is translated, etc. And there's Mr. Minister, and I would ask him, do we, for example, have these five references in English, or do we have practically, if we also take the specialization mentioned in Article 21, seven of the titles within this, so does that mean that we have seven different degrees of calling and that the number of points has been graduated? What happens if, for example, one job is reported to all these categories of people, and all those in the conditions of the competition meet the conditions to be accepted, will it be the obligation of those workers to act on the highest degree of calling or will it be left to work in another way? As time passes, I'll leave time for my colleagues. Approximately, I had so much to ask the minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41383	National MP Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41384	Ladies and gentlemen, the most important change made by this bill is the reduction of the points students will have to have in order to continue their study on the burden of the budget from 54 to 48 next year. That's actually the basic reason why we're adopting this law. We in the SRS don't mind, we don't mind having that number halved. Our position is that the state should provide free study for all those students who regularly and in time give exams and school years. The problem, however, is that this issue is used for political purposes, which has been the subject of trade between the Serbian government for years, between ruling parties and various student organisations. For these purely political reasons, the amendments to the Law on Higher Education have become a regular phenomenon, a seasonal phenomenon as a seasonal flu. At the end of one or the beginning of the second school year, the government and the Assembly are giving in to students' demands, reducing the criteria they need to continue their studies. The fundamental question is – does this improve the state of higher education? It is clear that it does not improve, on the contrary, the reduction of study criteria leads to the reduction of the knowledge criteria, the reduction of the level of knowledge students carry with them when they graduate from college and when they go to their jobs. This country acts irresponsiblely because it does a bear service to students, as if it doesn't matter to her to have good students, to have a good university, but to have peaceful students and a peaceful university. It is more important to the government that there is no demonstration of students outside the government building and parliament, than whether tomorrow these students will become good experts and benefit this society. I've never played lottery or sports prognosis in my life, but I'm offering a bet that next year, somewhere, at this time on the Assembly's agenda, we'll have a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education. I'm convinced that then the 48-point quota will be down to 45 or 40 points, all depending on what the students are looking for. What am I saying this for? Because in the spring of 2012, regular parliamentary and local elections and the ruling parties will meet all requirements to get the support of students and members of their families. Instead of proposing these ad hoc solutions, the government should propose long-term solutions that will really improve the quality of higher education in Serbia. One of these solutions should also be to strengthen the criteria for the opening of private higher education institutions. We have witnessed the fact that in the past few years colleges and higher schools in Serbia nothing literally like mushrooms after the rain. I don't think there are any municipalities in Serbia where there is no university, higher school or out-of-school college or higher school, and we already have several cases that rural communities have become the nursery of academic citizens. If the opening of colleges and higher schools continues at this pace, in a few years we will have a situation that at this time when competitions are announced we have public calls for students to enroll the music academy "Slavica Čukteras" in Ceterez, the economic college "Tichomir Stojković Tika – Špic" in Stajkovec and the like. Proponents of opening colleges and their out-of-state departments argue that this is a good solution because it allows students to study cheaper. I'm saying that's not true. All that money that students save on food, travel, accommodation, they later spend on expensive tuition and buying exams. The whole of Serbia knows one thing – that in most of these universities and higher schools exams are not about knowledge, but about money. Each of us individually knows at least some case in Belgrade and Novosadski, and at the University of Niski that someone passed the exam by buying it. For two years, the entire Serbia has witnessed what is happening at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, an organised sale of exams involving several dozen professors. Now the question arises – if exams are mass sold at the most prestigious university, one of four state universities, then what happens at universities in Varvarin, Smederjevska Palanca or Leška? It's not hard to guess. What astounded me, apart from the way the material was delivered, is the fact that the action included Belgrade University Rector Branko Kovacevic. In a statement published by B92, before this session was scheduled, therefore, before it was known that this topic would be on the agenda, the Rector urged lawmakers "to make themselves known and to adopt the law as soon as possible". Here the rector, first of all, forgot his jurisdiction and secondly missed his address. He was supposed to refer his appeal to the Serbian government. That's the first one. Secondly, his job is not to seriousise parliament but to seriousise students, to learn a little more and to rally less. The bill has not yet arrived in the assembly procedure, MPs have not yet seen it, and the university rector, who does his job properly, does not ensure that his students learn, lectures the assembly and MPs. Finally, let me also refer to certain objections relating to the application or incomplete application of the provisions of the Bologna Declaration. The SRS stance is that the 'Bolonian System' is a big prank, and its acceptance is one big mistake that will have devastating consequences for Serbian society, especially for our future generations. We had a system of education that wasn't ideal, but, anyway, it was better than what we have now. We've left that system, headed for that famous Bologna, stopped somewhere halfway, and now we're like the geese in the fog, neither there – nor here, anywhere on the side. What we have now reminds us most of an experiment that was conducted 30 years ago by Stipe Shuvar. The older MPs remember the famous schools that were named "Shuvarica" by him. What confusion is created by these reforms, as you call them, tells the fact that there are people who have graduated from colleges and higher schools, and be assured, the other day I attended a conversation where I saw one of those cases, they don't know what callings they have. People manage to graduate from college, think they have one degree, and I attended a conversation where two people who finished high school discuss between themselves what they are currently calling. There is only one way out of this situation – that the Ministry of Education gathers all the people of the mind with the goal of designing one good system of education, a system of higher education and education in general, which will allow us to have good students, good students who will return again from the world's greatest and most prestigious competitions as winners and that our experts are once again appreciated and sought worldwide. If our education system is good, if it produces good experts, no one in the world will ask what that system is called. Finally, once again, the SRS has no objection to reducing the number of points students need to study on the burden of the budget next year, we have no objection to free study, but we are against using it for political purposes, as a political trade and doing so every year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41385	The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic. There's five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us today is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which the Assembly is to adopt, and the bill promoter has not convinced us that the proposed changes are systematic, in order to make practical changes to the concept of higher education in Serbia. If we know that the applicable August 2005 law was created as a product of EU advocacy and compliance with its standards and that in practical application, it was not possible for us to fully implement, when the amendments to the October 2008 law mainly referred to the status of students financed from the budget, did the Government and the Ministry of Education not see the objective, realistic need of a higher education system for its serious reform? So, before us are the changes to the law, the cosmetic and the fire-fighting nature, which partially goes out to students, who are governed by the law against the wall, but in the sphere, in the process of the education system, nothing essentially changes. If you're telling the media that today's bill will put students in the centre of the academic world, let's see if he really wants to. In Article 2 of your bill, I will not dispute the increase in the number of members of the National Council from 16 to 21, nor the provision of funds from the budget of the Ministry of Education for the work of five new members of the Council. Because, when education and science are at stake, i.e. in translation, investment in the future is never great, especially when considering insufficient budget funding from 3.6% versus the real needs of 8 to 10%, or the establishment of a large amount of unnecessary and pointless agencies that you founded from 2000 to today, with too many directors' salaries, which serve to accommodate the staff of parties in power, and on the burden of the budget and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You cannot predict with this same member an increase in the number of regular professors and prominent figures in the National Council, and you can discriminate against professors of professional studies who will remain in a negligible number. In the same article, in paragraph 3, you allow the government to have a stronger influence on the work of the National Council, because you are proposing an increase in the number of members the government chooses, from 3 to 6, and that is certainly not good for the profession and science. The real question for government representatives is which college in Serbia today should be completed in order for graduates to wait for a secure job? As an example, I will refer to the municipality of Zitoradje, where three public enterprises received a 54-seat quota with a third and fourth degree of professional training for public works. On the list provided by the directors of these institutions to the Director of the National Service in Prokuplje, a certain Ivan Zečević, otherwise G17, of 54 people were nine people with a sixth and seventh degree of professional training, because because of the inability to find work according to their diploma, they, in a democracy that rules all around us, accept other jobs. However, Ivan Zecevic eventually refuses to sign a contract with the directors of these institutions, so that public works fail, as the authorities in Žitoradja form the SRS, New Serbia and the DSS. It doesn't mean anything to him 54 people who would have provided for their families for three months. I ask you, is this a crime and does this crime bear the name of Ivan Zečević and the party behind him and his actions? Now, what remains of these people and members of their families, but to come before the National Employment Service, stop its functioning. They've already announced it. But before such a thing happens, I urge the representatives of the government, especially the G17 people, to prevent it, because we are all in the common interest normal functioning of the institutions in Serbia. In article 61, which deals with scholarships, the government proposes that a higher education institution determines the level of tuition for the next school year for all study programmes, but only according to the Ministry's opinion, which is justified by the protection of the social security of citizens. What is the seemingly protection of the social security of citizens, or parents, of students, to be achieved with the non-binding opinion of the Ministry? It would be a whole other thing if instead of a term – opinion, a term – consent. That thing would be completely clear. This way, it enters the hypothetically into the possibility of the Ministry giving an opinion. Of course, a high school institution, doesn't accept that opinion...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41387	Mr. Milenkovic, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41388	Here, thanks for understanding, I will end up in two sentences – a higher education institution does not accept that opinion, and the institution of the Ministry and Minister is placed in an inferior position, precisely in a situation where it is necessary to take control of the role and a firm stand in the care of our students and their ability to pay for the next school year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41389	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if anyone who has not applied his right to Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? (No) Does Mr. Minister want to? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41390	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Dear fellow Members of the People, thank you all for talking about higher education, especially those who have pleaded for our quality and knowledge to be the result of this and all the other laws that we bring about higher education. I have to say, I've been trying all afternoon to listen very carefully and write down findings and certain questions. I really think there's a need for me to explain things one more time, and it's working for you and the public, so we don't get out of this room, and we're carrying with us some false belief, which is the essence of changing and supplementing this law on higher education. This isn't a new law. We are changing the provisions of the 2005 Higher Education Act and trying to make the law as best as possible, to meet the problems that exist, to solve some of the empty walks that some MPs have pointed to, to find answers to questions raised by practice and to come to quality, to increase mobility, to improve the work of higher education institutions and to get knowledge. Not to court anyone, not to students or teachers, but to go from one real situation that exists in Serbia and to take one step further from this real situation. We, it seems, in September of last year at KONUS, and KONUS, by the way, represent the rectors of state and private universities, have found that there are certain problems in higher education and that we should solve them. We then identified a number of issues, such as: the question of the study regime, the issue of compliance of programme levels and certain calls, the issue of non-inclusion, or the need to involve military education in the education system, the question of the lack of the right to appeal in the administrative dispute, the issue of empty walking in the course of accreditation, and perhaps a few more questions that I can't remember right now. Then, as minister, I formed a commission. At the head of this task force was my colleague Slobodan Jauković, on my left. I won't mention people's names, not because I don't have them, here, everyone here, who's interested... Just to tell you how representative this task force was, that is, the president of the National Council for Higher Education and a member of the National Council for Higher Education, and the President of the University of Serbia Conference, and the Rector of the University of Novi Sad, and the President of the Conference of the High Schools of Professional Studies, and the President of the University of Belgrade Council and the regular professor of the Faculty of Law and University, then a member of the National Council for Higher Education, Assistant Minister for Science and Technological Development, a representative of the University of Arts in Belgrade, representatives of private universities, representatives of students. The working group, I think, held 24 meetings, worked long and objectively, did a very good job, because they opened up a series of issues that found their content in that work group proposal, and otherwise I have here a bill with all these proposals that they had at the time. But then we estimated that they, objectively, although these proposals were very high-quality, opened up a debate and some new questions, which, at that point, we didn't even set as a goal, and the question was, should these issues be opened now, before we gave an assessment of the quality of this system that we have set up? Dear fellow MPs, this is one reform and reform is a process, and the process is something that takes place. We can't expect, at least I have no illusions, that you can say – this is great, this isn't, or compared to proposing a solution. Maybe it's an ideal solution, but if it's just a matter of my impression or the impression of individual professors, and it's not based through some numbers, research, indicators, it's still a question of whether this proposal is so good that it can actually bring a good result? This proposal of the working group, I must tell you, apart from the public, and the public is very well aware of it, at least through the media, because I see that everyone quotes the media, when it comes to some other things, then it would be good to mention that the media has also written about this law, but besides that, the debate was conducted in both the Council and the Senate of the University of Belgrade, and the Senate of the University of Novi Sad and the Senate of the University of Kragujevac and the Senate of the University of Novi Pazar and the Senate of the University of Arts in Belgrade, and KONUS, and in KONUS, the students and the Conference of Higher Professional Schools and the National Council for Higher Education, within the framework of it at the KAPK, the Commission for Accrediting and Quality Check, we have written objections to the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and Arts and We have written references to other high-level institutions. We've determined to go with this number of objections. Otherwise, I have to tell you that we also have the Declaration of Students, the SCONUSA about the way they're organized, where there are, I think, 16 points. Of these 16 points, we have implemented the amendments and additions of this law more than to court them, but to show them, practically, that they are at the heart of these changes. I said last night and I repeat today, if one of the students lives in the belief that "by increasing the number of points," let me say, he's going to come out of this story about the law on higher education as a winner, that's Pier's victory. Whoever comes out without knowing, I'll pay sooner or later! It's my deep conviction and that's why I'm talking. Some students have taken Bologna as an opportunity to get a degree without much learning, as some teachers unfortunately do not understand the need to change. Dear colleagues, one logical question is raised for all of us – what do we really want from ourselves and where is the role of higher education in the whole process of Serbia's development? Forty-seven countries create a European space for higher education. What, are we supposed to say – we won't? We'll be, like, 46 plus one and 47 minus one. What shall we be, our world? So how are we going to tell young people - yes, we are for development, we are for it, we are for Europe, but we are not? What won't we do? We don't know we won't either. Of course, the process involves harmonising and creating a higher education space. At this point, 47 countries, believe it or not, are building this European space of higher education. There are other countries in the world that also make their education models. I mentioned last time that Australia with Southeast Asian countries is gathering 23 countries and trying to build something that is a model of the education system, which among them will establish some criteria, and which will be the basis for, I say, improving mobility, to enable this exchange of students, teaching staff, to probably increase job opportunities. So, what's the role of, simple, higher education in the development of the country? There's a simple fact being ignored here. In the world there is, of course, the role of education is certainly to help develop the country. All countries, sooner or later, face economic difficulties. I say, education is a way to overcome the many problems society faces and statistics, practice, all research shows that the level of the population is greater education, which is simply easier to solve the problems they face. There's been a lot of talk here about the situation that came up with us after 2005, about private, public colleges, to say, about the appearance of a large number of diplomas, about a number of other things about higher education, and they deserve to be explained. I'm very honest with you, these are amendments and additions to the existing law, which I think has absolutely its own quality. The European Union Directives on certain professions are currently being studied by a group of our professors and, of course, I personally have no objection to these directives being implemented, but in a new law on higher education and to give an assessment of what you, colleague Ragush, have asked – is there a score? Unfortunately, there is no, because there is still one comprehensive assessment that all the universities in Serbia have given, in a way, as they have, for example, made known about this bill, there is no, because, according to my humble court, there is one unwillingness to talk openly about all the problems in higher education. Two years ago, when we went back, someone said, "in cosmetic" changes to the law on higher education, we found statistically that the transition at universities in Serbia in 2008 was between 12% - 28%. No one dared to make clear the assessment that what is at stake – the structure of the study programmes, the unadjustment of textbooks, the inadequate implementation of teaching, the concise ways of performing the final and the students did not understand their new role, that they had to learn and that every day they came to prove themselves to be the center of decision-making in every way. Unfortunately, although it has been nearly two years, that assessment has not been given. I felt it was perfectly logical that we should not go into more significant changes in this system, until we carry out its evaluation and we say – well, this should have been done like this, and then, after that, one, let me say, radical step and progress in terms, if you want and if you want, and change the program, if you need to change the funding, and if you need to make a number of other changes to make the system better. For what we've done so far, we've been rewarded, rated by a score of 3.8. That's a good estimate in European spaces. We were in the middle, about, of 46 countries then, then Kazakhstan joined. We are better than some neighbors or some countries that have a longer tradition in the area of higher education, or at least that's what they're getting up to. Everyone's got their own problems. Nowhere is ideal for higher education. Everyone faces these problems and tries in their own way to solve it. We said, in 2005, there was a law that paved the way for private colleges. And there's practice different. There are countries in Europe that allow countries and laws to open private universities and those who do not allow it. With us, starting with constitutional provisions on property equality, this law introduces the possibility and institutionalization of something that already exists, that private higher education be part of higher education. Standards are the same for everyone. That's the point. Standards are the same for everyone. And, I'm sorry, the standards are set by the National Higher Education Council and the Accreditation Commission. The National Council was elected by the same body five years ago and will again elect members of the National Council for Higher Education. The Commission has been chosen by public competition, 15 members of the law have been elected, believe me, very respected professors of state colleges. I think there's only one representative from private schools in that body, as far as I know, and no one interferes in their work. On the basis of standards and these criteria, which were subsequently developed, they performed the accreditation process and accredited over 2,000 study programmes. They did one thing for me, a useful thing for the state and for higher education. Right now we know what we have in higher education, from colleges, the structure of colleges, what teachers we have, what their scientific competences are. There was a teacher with a very strong title, and there was no scientific competence. There is now a recommendation from the National Council for Higher Education, so it is said that a doctor cannot be elected a person who has not published it and is not involved in pedagogical work. These criteria of the law are very detailed. A person who has not published at least 80 articles cannot be selected as an extraordinary professor, five of whom are within three years. Three must be in relevant magazines, namely of international and national importance. And those magazines, they say again, the Ministry of Science. Then it is known whether he published the monograph or did not publish the monograph, whether he published the textbook, simply, the score is done and who teaches and what teaches. These are very important things for the area of higher education. It's something you can't ignore. Unfortunately, what happened was what you, colleague Ragush, were talking about. Some people, or more, have submitted requests for the accreditation process. Under the previous law, the following procedure was envisaged. Documents shall be delivered via the Ministry of Accreditation and Quality Verification. The Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification shall give its opinion. Based on that opinion, of course, opinion can be positive or negative, it can't be third, but an opinion. The Ministry reacts afterwards. If the opinion is positive, it gives permission to work. Then you enter the process of work and later follow the accreditation process. Then there was a strange situation, that there were one number of objects that were not at all subject to verification. It was not declared against them, nor that they were good, nor that they were not. If they were bad, then the next step is the National High Education Council. Simply, as a minister, I have worked several times and asked, I say this very responsibly in front of you and in front of the whole public of Serbia, I have asked that these problems be solved, as I proposed last year (because the whole accreditation process should be), I say, I have proposed, because the powers do not allow me to do anything else, in the ministry or state, there is autonomy and we do not want to cross that threshold, to interfere with certain things that are part of what the academic community does. If we asked, if we were late in the accreditation process, so we can't do everything – come on, then let the Commission, along with the National Council, share jobs. Well, the National Council has formed the Commission. It's not two different worlds. They're all colleagues who work together, more or less. In some matters, however, there was obviously no agreement. What is good, this has almost gone unnoticed in the debate, i.e. much greater poisoning among them than it can be concluded that the public recognizes as a problem. It's a matter of quality to the public. That is why we have now introduced initial accreditation in the accreditation process, and this must be very clearly explained. There are eight steps written here. The Ministry's getting the paperwork. Then he checks only the technical arrangements of that documentation and, of course, checks whether there is enough evidence that certain teachers will be in a permanent working relationship. Now the solution is 70% of teachers, in the steady working relationship of active teaching. I don't think there's any concern that fellow Martinovic said, but if he is concerned, we are ready to accept the amendment, which is, and the previous solution. Active teaching is the structure of the student program. There are active classes and exercises. There must be so many teachers, 70% of teachers in a steady working relationship that produces active teaching. This is one of the conditions in this initial procedure, which checks the evidence, the level of the bank guarantee. You mentioned a certain amount and there we had strange solutions. Now we are going with one proposal, if the Assembly appreciates that this proposal should be bigger, we as promoters have nothing against accepting it. The assembly is appropriate to do what it thinks is necessary. When the technical side of that is checked, the documentation shall be submitted to the accreditation committee. The accreditation committee shall verify professionally and if the confidence of initial accreditation is based on this, we shall issue a work permit. On this basis, the institution is registered, because it was also a problem, and therefore enters the competition, announces a competition for the admission of certain students to the student programme that received confidence in this initial accreditation. Of course, there is protection through a guarantee given to the state within a year. If you appreciate that a year is a big deadline since the start of the student programme, it can only be in October, of course, until next year you have to apply for accreditation. If we notice that an accreditation request is filed, the Ministry can react. We have now provided for the possibility of regular accreditation within five years and extraordinary at the request of the National Council for Higher Education of the Ministry of Education or the institution itself. Then the Accreditation Commission checks all these things in practice so that there is no situation that one happens or changes reality within a few months, so that someone's goal is just to take the money and leave Serbia. We need to think about everything. Our goal is to protect the students as well. You've seen that we've also predicted the possibility that if someone changes their study program, they'll have to notify the Ministry. Because the Ministry with the Accreditation Commission and the National Council will start taking other next steps. It can't change more significantly, let me say, the structure of the study program that's accredited. It's one thing if you have as a subject of international private and commercial law, so divide it into international private and international commercial law, but it can't be, I say, mechanics and the basics of electrical engineering. It's completely two different things. I'm telling you this after that, after checking, through accreditation, there's a checkup and there's administrative surveillance. One-hearted was the view of everyone in higher education that there was a need for the state to have a more significant impact, to say, through these administrative powers of its own. I have to tell you now, let me say, we've set it up, we've made it clearer than we've predicted before what state situations it's responding to, and we've agreed on a part of the law that applies to violations. Now the amount of fines for both the institution and the individual is far greater than before. We now expect by applying this law to either temporarily or permanently prohibit work and departments and colleges that have no confidence in accreditation and thus introduce order. And these two years, if we agreed to be 48 points, to use it, to talk about the essentials. When you look at the entire rock that follows, let me say, this accreditation or higher education process we have, of course, this other side where they speak programs, textbooks, knowledge checks, exams, students, their roles, the result of all of this should be quality and knowledge. We have to work well as a state for quality and knowledge. I share the opinion of some fellow Members of the People's Parliaments that the moment we adopt an education strategy, which will be in the function of a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia, we will then say – okay, from now on, we are changing the funding system, everyone can work who has passed the accreditation process, therefore, which has the quality necessary to register as a higher school institution. But for Serbia, for the next five or ten years, ITs, doctors, engineers, philosophers, something that is the opinion of people who are involved in the country's development projections, to make the growth of gross social product so much needed, and then surely, they will be ahead of the others, but we don't have that right now. We don't have it now, as we don't even have an assessment of the application of the existing law, but it comes down primarily to some individual impressions. And when it comes to individual impressions, then, no offense, these impressions can be completely wrong sometimes. We're not in a situation, nor can we, nor want to interfere in writing textbooks. For God's sake, these are all university professors, reviewers of these textbooks – it's someone who has enough references to evaluate the quality of that textbook and recommend it for publication or not, because then it would be, exactly, a rough mix of the state's affairs that are not part of their jurisdiction. Now we've been through the accreditation process finally and we've come to see what the competences of teachers are and I think there's been a big step forward. We made the changes to solve it. We didn't touch the structure of the program, dear colleagues. The colleges themselves have been defined for the structure of the program. That's not what we affected. The teachers themselves have defined whether for the structure of the program three plus two plus three, or four plus one plus three. It was their decision. Now we're just trying, relative to some time before, to create a mechanism that will no longer create a situation of instability or different interpretation. Because in the years before, we had laws that still brought us into a strange situation and with our role and mine, and all of you who were in the Assembly at the time when we brought in that famous interpretation of the provisions of the law on higher education, the recognition of a master's degree, and then in reality created the situation that it was formal, but it was essential – if the university allowed you to pay some money and pass some exams. We now want not to touch the rights acquired, but from now on, to know some order and to agree the levels of study with certain titles, to do something that's right. What I have to say is that we haven't touched the structure of the program. We tried to find answers to some questions. He's right, Professor. The shami when he said that the DSS proposal two years ago was that within that 120-ranking quota, the average rating, or quality, was done, but I must tell you that there was no requirement of the academic community at the time. He wasn't! We started out as the government on July 7th. It was the first law I ever defended before you, as my minister, to my colleagues yesterday. The academic community didn't ask for it then, only asked to cut the number of points to increase the number of students entering the year, and this issue remained on the side. We're trying not only to react to events, but to improve the system now, so let's see what its results will be compared to all the results to make something better. And it wasn't just the student's demands about the points, or the demands about the law alone. When it comes to student demands and student protests, there's a lot around. A lot! For me, it was a paradoxical situation just in 2008, that we were changing the law to create conditions that students could enter a year, and some students demonstrate in front of the Assembly and say, "You're changing the law in time." Well, if we don't change it, you won't be able to enter the year. We should have left it and changed it in November, they lost a year and, later, a being—the state didn't respond in time?- I'm sorry. It's all some paradoxes we're dealing with. Or, last year, when student protests were held, two badgers were in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the Ministry, and they were neither from Building nor from the Faculty of Traffic. So, the question arises -- where do two badgers in student protests in front of the Ministry of Education? There's a lot going on around the students. Students, like this, are good-looking to speak for them. These are, uh, respected colleagues, student demands, what they've officially asked for and what we've tried to get them to meet. But what students need to understand, and we have to help them, is that they have to learn and become quality. It'll be the only ticket in their life. Nothing is created overnight. And these private colleges in the West, which are 300, 400, 700 years old, didn't come from yesterday, they last so long, and we don't know what kind of changes they've made within their education system or within the institution itself, and whether it was just as ideal as they're told. Some are now appreciated, some 50 years ago, some 100 years ago. Trends must be monitored and must be part of it. One more thing, Professor Branko Kovacevic was unworthy of your criticism, his colleague Maric mentioned him. Yes, Branko Kovacevic is a very high-quality man, and as a man and in scientific sense, a regular professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and I mean, it's hard to interpret, but Branko is 100% speaking in the context of what was also our idea of leadership to be adopted in June without being subject to the discussion of the Assembly in the second half of July. I'm sorry, and we were in a position to hear that the Assembly won't be working at the time of the football World Cup, etc. Thank God, here, the Assembly works, the law is on the agenda and will be adopted in time. Well, I'm glad it works, because here's the law. There will be others, because the students will also be glad to know what awaits them all in the next period, or what awaits them there. What we have, in general, is a big problem and you have to say it. We have a network of institutions on higher education that are part of the former Great Yugoslavia and we have a difficult economic situation, and once there was no question of quality in the way it is being put now, because our experts are, and our professional students have been very much welcomed everywhere in the world. There was a passing point because there was a quality, but there was, let me say, a greater possibility of employment. Now it's only about employment. Here, tendencies, economic indicators say things are going in the right direction, but objectively with the opening of more jobs. With the increase in economic development, a number of issues will be resolved. Education can't solve everything. You know when you talk about higher education studies are accredited to five years. It is logical for the study programme to be a result of the interests of the university and their interest that college staff be part of the economic structure tomorrow, to be employed. It's logical to consult with someone. If there is, let me say, that one incarceration, well, of course, the result won't be good. On the other hand, there's something else, students themselves pick out where they're going to sign up, what they're going to sign up and they have some projection of their future life. For the best, they learn, whatever the conditions are, and they don't pay much attention to the simultaneous findings. We wanted this solution to reward the best, that the best ones each year would show the best results each year if they could be on the burden of the state. Otherwise, the state gives a fantastic amount of money and it is consciously or unconsciously ignored. I have to mention, once again, that we in the structure of the Ministry of Education don't have a lot of money for all the needs that the ministry needs, but that there's a huge amount of money for both housing and feeding students and that we have a large number of students who are being allocated funds. If I tell you that in addition to these quotas, which are increasing by 20% each year by decisions of scientific and educational higher schools, we have more than 25,000 students who have obtained the right to eat, more than 17,000 students in institutions, where 212 million are set aside monthly for their accommodations where there are accommodation and student recovery facilities. Then we also touch cultural activity and entertainment, and summering and helping poor students, sports activities, informative activities. Then, student loans and scholarships, 17,600 students were entitled to student loans, 8,411 gained the right to scholarships, scholarships from the Foundation for the Development of Artistic Youth, so what the Ministry of Education and Sports is doing. You can't say the state doesn't care. It would be an ideal situation if it could be for anything, but for anything it can't, it can't be said simply, the Ministry didn't do anything, and it doesn't take care. Dear fellow Members of the People, there is no, believe me, a fear at all that an increase in the number of members of the National Council for Higher Education from the order of state representatives from four to seven will be in any way at the expense of higher education. Well, that's a third in total, there's 12 candidates who'll be a CONUSA proposal, and two from the High School of Professional Studies, that's 14. The students are here in part that is related to their questions. We will accept an amendment concerning the representatives of the Minority Council that they participate, when issues of importance are for minorities, but only in the part where it will be on the agenda. Our wish is that the more subjects participate in the work of the National Council, for a simple reason, they should conjecture the elements of state policy and choose the elements of state policy in higher education. And those of you from the government who, you will see, all belong to the university, there is no fear that it can in any way question their work. I'm finishing what I want to tell my colleagues, who have pleaded, please two more sentences, we're going to change this first term and point 5. We will accept amendments that speak of the need for values both European and national traditions, but also cultural values, cultural heritage to be content of higher education. We will also accept a number of other amendments that will improve the content of this law. I am not in the Assembly for the first time, and you know well that I do not slave with stereotypes, whichever amendment is in place to improve the content of this law we will accept. It was really necessary to explain and do things for you, and also for students and for the entire academic public. This is just one step towards improving the state of higher education, a big task waiting for us, and we have to take another step. Dear colleagues, I was very careful, listening all morning and writing. It's time for me to answer the questions. Whether you accept it or not, it's a different thing, but I have the same right to say what I think of the law as a proposing. I hope you'll accept at least part of what I said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41391	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to thank Mr. Obradovic and his associates Jauković and Mitrovica on your behalf and to inform you that I am concluding a principled search on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. We'll continue to work after a 60 minute break, so 25 to three (14). 35) start work and move to the fourth item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the session's session continues, the announcement of the invitation to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the meeting to be attended by Zlatko Petrovic, head of the Justice Ministry. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Judicial Witches (Principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group Progress – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group DSS - 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds; PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Sinisa Stamenković, PUPS MP; MP Srdjan Spasojevic, Parliament Group of New Serbia; MP Judita Popovic, MP of the LDP; MP Djordje Milicevic, MEP of the SPS-JS; MP Milica Radovic, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP of Snezana Sedlar, MEP of the G17 Plus. I ask the other parliamentary groups, if in the meantime they have authorised representatives, to notify the delivery. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the draft law on judicial warlocks. Before I ask if the proposing's representative wants a word, it's necessary to get an electronic card. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (Yes) The word has Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41393	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this principle debate, I would like to make some preliminary remarks on the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has prepared the Ministry of Justice. I would point out its great importance for the more efficient work of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore also for all our citizens. The current law governing this area was passed in 1987 by the Law on Conditions of Performing Fines. It is clear, therefore, that it contains outdated and anachronic solutions which make it necessary to pass a whole new law that will be in line with other regulations and at the same time regulate art affairs in a much more modern way. In so far's practice, courts have seen many shortages and problems with the work of an expert. In view of the importance of the expert in the court proceedings, i.e. the necessity of their expertise which the court does not have, it is necessary to lay down a law in a different way to regulate the conditions for the performance of skills, the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the skills, the procedure for enrolment and the erasure of legal persons performing the skill-making activities, as well as the rights and obligations of the persons performing the skill-making. Decisions in the Proposed Law on Judicial Experts shall contain conditions for the performance of artificial affairs which are thus set up to provide for the appointment of and the most professional persons for certain areas of art. Therefore, higher criteria are foreseen in relation to the legislation so far, both in terms of the necessary professional arrangements and in terms of work experience, expertise and practical experience in the profession necessary for the work of skill. Also, since the exercise of skills is of an impact on the efficiency and quality of the work of courts, the bill explicitly provides for the court's authority to submit a proposal for the resolution of the skills which performs these tasks in an unbiased and disorderly manner. By following the work of the experts, the court is able to best assess its professional and professional quality, so if it considers that the expert has done these tasks in an unskilled and disorderly manner, it has the opportunity to submit a proposal to resolve such an expert. Also, according to the bill, the minister in charge of justice affairs, with prior consideration of the need for courts, will issue a public invitation to appoint an expert. This will result in an adequate number of artists and a more regular deployment of persons who perform skills in certain areas. The bill itself contains six parts: introductory provisions, the part that regulates the conditions for performing the skill, the process of appointment and discharge of the skills, the part relating to legal persons performing these tasks and the part which regulates the rights and obligations of the skills, as well as transitional and final provisions. Introductory provisions define skill-making activities as activities which provide the court with the necessary expertise in determining legally relevant facts. It is also determined that skills can be performed by natural and legal persons, by state authorities, as well as by scientific and professional institutions. Articles 6 to 10. The bill requires that a natural person be appointed an expert, in addition to the general conditions for working in the state bodies, must meet the following conditions: to have adequate higher education, at least five years of work experience in the profession, expertise and practical experience. It is foreseen that professional calling and practical experience prove both published professional and scientific works, as well as opinions and recommendations from courts and other state bodies and institutions. The legal person may carry out articulation activities if it is registered in the register of the competent authority for the work of art in the relevant area and if he has employees who are registered in the register of witches. The process of appointing and dispensing experts foresees a newspaper compared to existing legal solutions. Namely, the minister of justice is also scheduled to publish a public invitation to appoint an expert, in line with the needs of the court. The applicant shall submit an application for appointing with contributions to demonstrate compliance with the conditions for the performance of these tasks. The appointment request is decided by the minister, whose solution is allowed to conduct the administrative dispute. The law lays down the content of the appointment request, as well as a solution to the appointment of an expert. The new legal solution suggests that the artist has his own seal. The Ministry of Justice shall keep a record of the appointed experts through an electronic-based artificial register, available to the public via the Ministry's website. Such a solution makes it easier for citizens to obtain data related to a person appointed as an expert. The bill provides that the procedure for the discharge of the experts, due to disorderly or unprofessional skill, may be brought by the court or by other bodies that conduct the proceedings, as well as by the parties and other participants in the judicial or other proceedings, and it is also specified what is considered to be such an unprofessional practice of art. In addition, as well as other grounds for resolution, the absence of conditions for designation, conviction for a certain criminal offence, are provided for a safeguard measure for the prohibition of the exercise of certain activity or the loss of business or work capacity. The artist will be resolved on his own request. This procedure also provides judicial protection in such a way that an administrative dispute can be initiated against the solution to be resolved by the expert. In relation to the provisions relating to legal persons performing art activities, the Ministry of Justice is scheduled to run a register of legal persons for the performance of art affairs. Unlike the current legal solution, the reasons for eradicating the legal person from the register are specified: if it ceases to meet the requirements for performing artificial activities, if it performs artificially or unequivocally, and other reasons. Against a solution that has rejected a request for registration, as well as a solution to delete from the register, a legal person may also launch a administrative dispute. In the section governing the individual rights and obligations of the experts, it is intended to have the right to compensation for expenses and the right to a reward, whose height is determined by the rules on compensation for costs in court proceedings. The expert is obliged to perform the art within a given time limit, safe and impartial and to keep the secrecy of the data that he has come to do these tasks. The transitional and completion of the provisions of the bill lays down deadlines for the appointment of experts and regulates the position of experts, who have acquired this property by the provisions of the current law. These individuals are scheduled to cease their skills if, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, they are not appointed an expert. The Minister of Justice will publish a public invitation to appoint an expert within 90 days of the date of the law's entry into force, and only the appointment will take place within a year. Finally, I would point out once again the importance of this legislative proposal for further reform of the entire judicial system. I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed law will be adopted, creating the necessary regulatory framework that regulates this very important area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41394	Before we continue our work, in accordance with Article 37(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group will represent Parliamentarian Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does MP Petar Jojic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? (No) Does the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, who gave an opinion at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? (No) Does MP Momir Markovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups from the smallest to the greatest want a word? (Yes) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Honorable Madam Chairman, I believe that with this approach to the adoption of the Law on Judicial Experts, we create an extraordinary opportunity in the shortest possible time, after 23 years of stasis, to remove one of the most important obstacles in quality and up-to-date judgment, or an up-to-date judiciary, and to appreciate that in the matter of skillfulness of any form and in any case, judicial proceedings have been carried out for an extraordinary lengthy period of time, that is to say, in the first degree of skillfulness of the adoption process, and in the second instance, there have been large intervals, which have also affected the quality of our judiciary, i.e. all the measures and acts that have been taken there. What I think matters at all is that when it comes to the law on judicial warlocks, after 23 years, they take advantage of the opportunity and that both types of court experts, whether it's physical persons and also legal persons, they have to be licensed. The way the Ministry has proposed to determine who our expert will be, or who will meet the conditions to perform this very important and very responsible function in our judiciary, I think we should be extended by the fact that, especially in the case of artists in large court disputes, where there are enormous values, we must establish responsibility by the holder of property and we would have to establish responsibility by his, I would say, by depositing responsibilities for the particular object that he has, or which he has won, which is certainly going to be beyond any kind of work, we would say, regular norms. I think that in principle we should open a debate on this, and in particular, many amendments have been made that are just trying to speed up this expert's responsibility for what they're going to do, that is, the right to get a seal and that they are behind it as a court ruling. When an expert finishes his job, let it be brought down in a second-degree procedure, or super-artifice, the court remains only to judge. These are the extremely large ingenuities that we give to the experts, regardless of their professional and other abilities that are and how important they are to get the seal. I think we need to talk about it both as a society and as a ministry, and first of all, the judiciary to make sure. When it comes to the aspect, which the respected minister presented, it is about the assessment of our skills, or how they can be or how they can become experts, we would have one grudge, but it is more technical than political. It refers to the fact that the expertise of the experts will be more appreciated, and his dignity will be less appreciated, as expertise will be appreciated on your part, Madam Minister, or we will introduce him into the register if he contaminates all the reasons he has cited as his benefits or expertise, while the dignity of each expert will be left to Mr. President of the Court. We may have misunderstood, but I don't think so. I think that aspect should be seriously considered. Especially important, it may be more important than for judges themselves to be extremely worthy and responsible for the work they do. The shortcomings and problems that have also been identified in connection with the work of the experts, especially in legal persons, at the institutes at which the Republic of Serbia currently has, for example, in particular in the area of traffic-technical skills, where the skills of the Kirilo Savik Institute are known, that "the pedestrian killed a car at a pedestrian crossing" and many other things, once and for all, must be eliminated by some kind of control, which must be established and it could emerge from the licence. So we advocated that, besides the seal as some sort of evidence, material evidence, that he was trained and practically verified by the Ministry, he would have to own a license for the job. The licensing would be done normally within the Justice Department, along with all of these categories that you have listed here as categories that are necessary for real human resources. We believe that the terms of the laws provided for in Articles 6 to 10 of this Law are quite strict in order to meet the obligations that are related to certain skills, but only one more difference would have to be made between skills and professional titles. I don't think that's impossible, and that's one technical approach to these things, in order to divide those who have certain skills, which are not scientific knowledge, could be experts in the composition of the list or the register of our ministry. When it comes to the procedure for the resolution of all the experts who do not comply with this new law, we believe that an authority should be introduced in this subsequent control or revision. In other legal solutions of a similar type, we have given certain advice, i.e. commissions or expert supervision. In this case, it will be done directly by the minister through certain co-workers. We think that this should also be supported, that is, transformed into one body, one body that and how it could be washed away, not only the results of certain skills by certain substances, but also the results that would be related to certain social events, above all to large-scale jobs such as transition and everything else that is following us right now. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41396	Seven minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Judita Popovic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41397	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the LDP really supports judicial reform. We believe that without a serious reform of the judiciary, we do not have the democratisation of society and we do not have the preconditions for the economic development of this society. For this very reason, when a law, which seems to be, perhaps, as a small factor, one small element of this judicial reform, which is essentially one process that will last, which is not finished, then it is thought that this law does not have some particular political force. However, given that Serbia has waited for more than 20 years for a new law on judicial warlocks, as the existing law was passed back in 1987, it can then be borne in mind that the existing law is quite outdated and anachron. What does that mean? This means that even trials that rely on good findings and expert opinions in the good part can neither be professional enough nor objective enough unless we have good scientific findings. Therefore, it was indeed high time that this law came in line to discuss it in the Assembly, because if we want to achieve these declared objectives with regard to a single judiciary of importance, with integrity, we must in no way avoid bringing all the factors into order, all the elements of that judiciary. This draft law on judicial experts has certain weaknesses that are inadmissible, if we are to move towards this European path and if we want the judiciary to have its own weight and the right role for it in society. What are these weaknesses? First of all, I would single out the fact that the conditions for performing artificial affairs lack one of the conditions, i.e. the assumptions necessary for an expert to have, which are otherwise required in the selection of judges, which is the dignity of an expert. Why is that dignity important? Because you can have a very highly qualified artist, you can have a very professional artist, you can have an expert who's a scientific worker, and that this artist may not have something that's very important that his professional findings are really in the function of justice and justice of the future judgment. It is not an expert who makes decisions, it is the judge who makes decisions, but to a good extent, the judge bases his decision on these expert findings and opinions. If this finding and this opinion has been given by one expert whose dignity we can doubt, in that case neither this verdict, however objective the whole procedure has been, and no matter how much the whole procedure fulfils all the qualities that are necessary for the court to have, it cannot be that result that a verdict that will be maximumly objective, fair and just and legally based. Here's to starting with the very definition of what dignity means, how it's defined in the Law on Judges. It says – dignity involves moral qualities which the judge, and here the expert should also possess behaviour according to these qualities: honesty, security, dignity, social responsibility, independence, impartiality, reliability. So if you one of the elements in that one chain of trial are not sufficiently specific in that, in addition to all these professional properties, it has the property of a moral credibility, because it is expected that it has certain moral credibility, then we have a problem. We have a problem because it is not enough to be the judge who meets these moral preconditions, in terms of dignity, but the entire chain from the beginning until the end of that trial must be in line with those moral principles and expectations of a fair and just trial. You can't attach dignity exclusively to some criminal responsibility, because criminal responsibility when it comes to the agenda, I'm talking about the experts normally, probably preceded a lot of things. So it took a lot of time to even notice what that witch did and did. If we allow it to end only at the end of that one time the judge notices that he has a problem with a certain expert and if he asks for a resolution then it is already one of the ex post minds, a subsequent reaction, so it would be good for us to respond to one solution, which would include dignity in the quality, that is, the conditions for the appointment of an artist, and not to react afterwards, because the damage has already been done. So it's time for this society to react in advance, to think ahead, to plan ahead, not to put out any fires afterwards. It's one of the basic grudges that we have about this law. Another objection would be to leave a lot of time again in some empty walk for the application of this law, because, you will allow, 90 days and a year, when it should actually apply this law to some future artisans, is too much time for Serbia that does not have time. When we analyse these provisions relating to the process of appointment and resolution, we are going back to what I said earlier about dignity, because if you look at Article 11 in relation to Article 12, then you will see that the public invitation for the appointment of an expert is moving again from the Ministry, that the Ministry is the address to which these requests are addressed, and that the candidate is made by the minister. So, what does that mean? If the minister has on his desk all the exact information on the artist, on his professional preparation, on his qualifications, work experience, scientific papers, etc., it does not yet mean that the minister has all the necessary elements to decide whether the artist is truly qualified in every respect to be appointed as a judicial expert. So, there is some opinion missing from that environment, some element missing that would complement the quality of the candidate for the artist, and that can only be obtained by the minister asking for certain information about the candidate. Unless we have this element of dignity, I see no reason why the minister would be obliged to address the court who has also filed a certain request for a certain number of experts to give his opinion, namely to declare how he has worked with a specific expert in the past. Why does this matter? It's important because I'm an expert, if it works in one particular court procedure, it can largely represent a backbone around which the decision itself will move. I'd like to give you some examples of life, and I'd like to remind you, say, of the Topcider affair. We had these three skills, we had one skill set by the Military Court, and we know that according to that skill, Dragan and Drazen, unfortunately, died by killing each other, and then he killed himself. Isn't that a scandalous find of an expert? After that, we had one independent skill, independent and independent artists, who gave a completely different finding. And now we have the FBI's art, which also concluded that the guard killed a third person. So you have one example in practice of how experts can and how to influence possible court decisions, or during a trial. Let's say, one example of life that may not be so dramatic, but in Zrenjanin, some, a hundred people from two, three streets, "Prvomajska" and "Sixtomia" streets in the city, are about to press charges against local self-government, given that they suffer material damage, because local self-government for years is not capable, or we don't know what those reasons are, to change the traffic that passes through these two or three streets, through which thousands of cruisers and freighters pass through, and that, in that case, these Augustes do not meet the standards of some of the highways that are needed to make such traffic in one of those parts of the city take place. What does that mean? That's why property is destroyed, walls are fired, installations fired, plumbing and sewerage are fired. There are costs and damages and people are willing to file charges, they also have health disorders, because that traffic takes place 24 hours a day, weekends, working days and holidays. So here you'll have to do art; construction, traffic and medical skills. Imagine the pressures these experts will have to endure in one local community of local politicians, when once it comes to the agenda, to experts on these damages that citizens suffer, because there will be great damage. If all of this is considered, it is not naive how this witch law will be adopted, with which members and with which solutions, because this is an extremely sensitive topic, because, if nothing else, it is the reason for corruption and how it is developed in Serbia. We are in an infamous place and by world standards, and we must try in all ways to at least try to take in and take in any possible corruption and, among other things, we can do it in this way that we would already install in the text of the law some moral principles, some of the characteristics of these skills that they must have if they want to be judicial experts. They're not warlocks, they're judicial warlocks. If the judge has to have a certain dignity to judge in the same way, all of these other elements that make up the whole court's procedure to be worthy and capable, both as humans and as experts, must not doubt their work. There must not even be any doubt about the possible work of future artists. This, again, depends on this assembly and that, again, depends on the government to decide on the amendments, including the LDP amendments. Therefore, no one's fault will be except for these factors who participate in the adoption of the law. Let's not wait again for a few months so we can make changes to the Witch Act, but try to meet problems, not react to those problems when they're already in existence. Once again, I underline, we support judicial reform, we support all the laws that form part of that reform. This law represents one brick in that building that represents one judicial system of this state. If that little element is not perfect enough and good enough, it can easily come to the collapse of that building. It is not necessary to underestimate these small elements, which may not be so politically significant at first sight, but the results and how they can be politically devastating. For this reason, we are prepared to support this law, normally, with certain changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41398	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 16 minutes and 50 seconds have been used. The word is by MP Djordje Milicevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41399	Mrs. Komic, dear Mrs. Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be relatively brief in this opening statement. First of all, I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia's Socialist Party Group of Unity Serbia is in principle in favour of this legislative proposal, because by supporting the draft law on judicial experts, we want to support the goal which is to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal, which is to ensure that the most professional are doing this extremely important job. It is true that even in practice so far, as it is said among other things, many irregularities have been observed when it comes to the work of judicial experts. It is true that judicial experts, among other things, are also a serious problem for the judiciary in Serbia and that artificiality makes it difficult for procedural actions, procedural things, or length of proceedings. It is also true that the previous, or existing law, was passed in 1987, that it contained an exceeded, outdated, anachronous solutions, and the key need for a new law lies right in the fact that the existing law does not contain and does not prescribe what qualifications are needed to enable someone to perform the work of a judicial expert. What is extremely important when it comes to the proposed law is that its adoption will be the first time that a single register of experts will be established and that clear rules of qualification will be laid down which the experts will have to possess to carry out this extremely important work. Therefore, the criteria for professional training, working and practical experience in the profession are strengthened, and we believe that this is a good way to reach the highest quality and most professional. Articles 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of this legislative proposal provide for conditions for the performance of skills, i.e. that the skill is to be performed, with precise formalised conditions, as is said, by natural and legal persons, by state authorities and by scientific and professional institutions. What is important is that Serbia will for the first time have a register of all judicial skills and that the registry will be placed on the site of the resolution ministry, according to a member of the 16th legislative proposal. Besides, there will be data on every court expert. What is also important are newspapers in the process of appointments, as well as newspapers in the process of dispensing witches. Namely, the minister publishes a public invitation for the appointment of the experts and, above all, in line with the needs of the courts, it is stated in the legislative proposal and the reasoning of this legislative proposal. The minister also decides on a request for appointment and we want to believe that this will result in the necessary and necessary number of skills that will be properly deployed in certain areas. In the case of a discharge procedure, because of the above, unsettled or unprofessional skill, the court or other bodies leading the proceedings, i.e. the parties or other participants in the judicial or other proceedings may file. Article 19 is very clear and precisely defined what it means when an expert performs an artificial or disorderly art. Of course, we support what is stated in the explanation of this legislative proposal that the court is, firstly, able to adequately assess how qualified the experts are to carry out their work and that, for the sake of efficiency and quality of the work of the court, it is necessary to provide for the possibility and authority that the court may submit a proposal for the resolution of the court's expert. We are convinced that the introduction of newspapers, when it comes to the resolution of artists, will affect the suppression and possible occurrences and the possibility of corruption. As a percentage look, that's what's extremely important and that's what I want to say in the end, in most cases the verdicts depend on the findings of the court expert, not the judge. With that in mind, it is very important that we have a quality law that will, through clearly defined rules, address this serious issue of judicial justice. For this reason, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, I would like to say, in principle, to support this legislative proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41400	Since the time of the authorised representative, five minutes have been used. Does MP Milica Radovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will approach this bill from the point of view of someone who has worked in the Belgrade judiciary for four years and has had the opportunity to face the work of an expert on a daily basis. So that this is not a unilateral approach, the approach from the judicial point of view, this topic in principle will be discussed by my colleagues: Mr Dimitrijevic from the aspect of the former court-medical expert artist, counterpart Palalic, from the point of view of lawyers. Of course, skill as a judicial-processing shop is the liquid of the modern judiciary not only with us, but in the world at all. In order for someone to carry out this important duty, he should and should be primarily a professional person who meets a number of essential and formal conditions in order to make such an important and responsible call. The findings and opinions of the experts depend on the very quality of the case, and the outcome of the case depends on the course of the trial itself. What should be the task of the artist himself is that he carefully consider the subject of the art himself, to make his observations completely accurate, and to give his judgment in the end unbiasedly about what he should represent the subject of the art. Now, in practice, things don't seem like that. Infrequent skills are subjective, findings, opinions not sufficiently based on the profession itself, i.e. in science itself, and therefore, they are at least unskilled. This directly reflects not only on the court's ruling, but also on the judiciary itself. Here, it should be clarified that the court is engaged by an expert for reasons that the judge is not qualified to carry out this skill, or to give his opinion that what constitutes a task of skill, will result in the very relevant fact that is crucial for the determination of truth in a given court procedure. Judges themselves are often not in a position to give the findings and opinion of the expert as impartial, because they are not professional in that area and therefore usually give him faith, or trust him. That is why it is very important that only skill, especially this area of art, is apostrophe of the responsibility of the experts in law. It's something that's very important, and unfortunately, in this bill, which we're discussing today, there's not much to say about the very responsibility of an expert. Now it's still the applicable law of 1987. It is true that he is anachron, unconforming in language, both with regulations and with the Constitution. It's true that he treats organizations that haven't existed for a long time, but I have to express my opinion that he's much more elaborate, that he's more precise and that he's more comprehensive than the one we have in front of us today. It's not just my opinion, it's the opinion of the experts I consulted when preparing to discuss this bill. It's a good thing and it's to be commended, it's something that's very important to be passed by this law, and it's a register of the skills themselves. He's being introduced, and he'll be bound. What matters is that they will be made available to the public. Unfortunately, however, the bad side of this law prevails. First, there is no expert body that examines expertise, which examines experience, exactly how skilled someone is in what he does and, unfortunately, the moral credibility that is very important, given the call being made. The second thing, as I said earlier, is not sufficiently defined provisions relating to the very responsibility of an expert. So far, experience has shown, in the judiciary itself, that the absence of responsibility is something that represents the greatest flaw, when it comes to witches. I still don't know that any expert has answered, even though the law knows such a possibility, when he made a certain failure, which is why there was irreparable damage. I don't think our judiciary remembers such an example of the responsibility of a court expert. Also, by consulting some other legislation, which concerns and relates to this area, I had the opportunity to see that many legislations provided for, or in laws concerning this area, that the expert had a license. I think it would be good if it was built into our law. In modern countries, an expert in a given area is an expert. He's accredited, he's licensed, because he's going through more stages of compulsory education based on which he gets one of the five ranks. How I managed to find this is: a beginner, an accredited member, an accredited senior appraiser, a licensed appraiser and an expert appraiser. Such a serious approach to ranking skills tells us that it is not enough for an expert, in addition to meeting certain formal conditions, to hand over the documentation to the Ministry of Justice and then simply waits when the minister of justice will be appointed. This ranking of expertise tells us that not every expert on his profession is the same. I also had a chance to make an insight into the draft law on court experts, which, unfortunately, did not enter into this procedure. I think some solutions in it are much better. On the other hand, a very important problem has been observed in practice. It's that by waving one judge, he always hires the same court martial arts for a particular area. That's something that should've been fixed. Could it have been done on the basis that the court's experts would be engaged on the basis of a predetermined order from the computer program or otherwise, it was on the Ministry itself to assess what the best option was. This is exactly the problem and what everyone will point you to when it comes to the work of the witches themselves. On this, let me put it this way, there's a big problem between the judge and the artist himself, and there's room for potential, I'm not saying, but possible corruption and, of course, there's room for not giving himself an unbiased finding and opinions. Also, the process of appointing court craftsmen has changed slightly compared to what we now have. Our key objection, the DSS Parliamentary Group, is that there is no expert commission to carry out, in a way, a conversation with the artificial candidates themselves, based on those references and documentation already submitted by the Ministry of Justice candidate, and which has not been carried out by some sort of triage of the candidates themselves. That's something that's bad, because that's how witches don't go through the necessary professional checking before the appointment. I think the existence of an expert commission before was in the previous bill, but it's a shame that it no longer exists. From some representatives of the Justice Department, we have heard, in the media we have had the opportunity to read that this bill envisioned the existence of a disciplinary commission that would be composed of the President of the High Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors and representatives of the Ministry of Justice, whose aim would be to examine the merits of all those performances that come to the work of judicial experts. Of course, as such, they would have the opportunity to impose certain sanctions, both from the very monetary notice, through suspension, to the resolution. Regardless of what each of us here would have the opportunity to say, when it comes to the composition of this commission, because it would be made out by the same people who are most responsible for the failed reform of the judiciary, whose consequences are, but more than evident in practice, we believe that the very idea of the existence of a disciplinary commission is not bad and that it should have been introduced into the bill itself. Now, we have a situation where experts don't go through enough to check their professions either during their appointments or later in the course of their calls. Here it is necessary to be completely objective and to say that the findings and opinions of the court expert, i.e. from the aspect of its quality, do not depend solely on the expertise of the court expert, although it is crucial. The very important problem in practice is that the court orders for skill are imprecise, which does not determine exactly the object and task of skill itself, so it often happens in practice that witches do not deal with the task of skill based on which they should produce a relevant fact that will later prove themselves in the proof process, but are already dealing with some other less important points and less important things related to the art itself. And since I have said, I would say, an objective display, from my point of view, of things when it comes to this bill, it is then to conclude that apart from the register, which, I repeat, is a very good thing and should be supported, I think that this law, unfortunately, does not bring anything too new, nor will this thing in the best way, and this area improve. At the very end of this bill, the very surprising reason for the urgent adoption and the very surprising explanation of this bill that, in the event that this law is not adopted in time, it will be the reason for the possible negative consequences that the judiciary will suffer. I simply must ask Mrs Malovic – does she have more adverse consequences than the slappings the Serbian judiciary received by the European Commission, when it comes to re-election of judges and when it comes to the composition and independence of the High Council of Justice? The fact is that the consequences of such a reform in the judiciary are very visible. The fact is that our citizens' trust in the judicial system has dropped to that extent, yes, in fact, it doesn't exist. The fact is that by drastically reducing the number of judges and by drastically increasing the number of cases per judge himself, the judiciary in terms of its functioning will be brought to the very edge of its operation. At the very end, I'd like to deal with what we've submitted as amendments. First of all, we've already reacted in Article 6, where we've asked for a supplement of the conditions for performing the skills. In Article 7, where we asked to introduce provisions on the existence of an expert commission, to better check the professional qualification of the expert candidate himself. In Article 10, we asked that, in addition to the lists of state authorities that could perform the art be found, in addition to colleges, institutes and seductions. First of all, here we were referring to the City Arts Institute, which existed for about 35 years and was formed by the City Assembly, and for the needs of the Belgrade judiciary and as such, at least at the time I was in the judiciary, was a renowned institution. Even if there are certain problems in its functioning, it is not a problem to reform it. We think it's very important that it should have found its place in this law. Also, for reasons of resolution, in Article 19, we asked that point 7 be deleted, for a reason, to make it more clear to the public, this point 7) says that the artist will be cleared unless he informs the Ministry of Justice within eight days of any change in his or her address or any other data being entered in the register. This information should not be deserved, to find its place as a reason for resolution, in addition to a provision that says that the artist will be resolved if he performs his art unsuspectingly and unsettledly. Simply, by rank, these two reasons for resolution are not even and I don't see why this could exist as a reason for resolution, that if he doesn't notify the Ministry of Justice within eight days of changing the address, residence or phone itself. These are completely irrelevant things in terms of what should only be artificial. Of course, when I was talking about the disciplinary commission, I think it's very important that it was included in this bill, because the disciplinary commission in this case, I suppose, could, say, instruct him, or punish him, to warn him, or, if after the second notice, he doesn't, of course, suspend him or anything else. The solution is very, in my opinion, a strong reason for this, given that the reason for the resolution here in this case does not exist. It also applies to legal persons themselves in terms of eradicating themselves. We haven't, as you can see, submitted many amendments. We filed six, total. I must say, even if I believe you will consider them, accept them, the quality of this law will not be sufficient. I think that the bill itself should have provided for some newspaper that I was talking about, primarily I mean the disciplinary commission, primarily I mean the expert commission that is going to check the knowledge and expertise of a certain expert and, of course, the provisions that would apply to the responsibility of a professional to be of quality in its very existence. Thank you. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41402	Sixteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the authorized representative's time. Does Snow White Sedlar want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41403	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a draft law on judicial experts, in my personal opinion, as well as in the opinion of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, is a short but very important law, and it is quite justified the reasons for the urgency which are stated in the reasoning of the law. Why? We believe that the adoption of this law will finally introduce order into such an important matter as the work of judicial experts, and we are all individuals, individually, whether as an ordinary party in a court proceedings, whether as a representative of a party in a court proceedings or as an ordinary citizen, a participant of any court proceedings or proceedings before other state bodies, witnesses as to how much matter of judicial skills they are. The behavior of court experts, their morals and everything else finds in a chaotic state. I believe that the adoption of this law will directly affect the more efficient, effective, and certainly more quality work of courts and state bodies. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this law are fully justified and urgent. I can say, for example, I come from a small municipality in Vojvodina, I've already mentioned that municipal court in Ojac, which, unfortunately, also had the murder of a judge, etc., but I want to say that none of those bad things that happened in that court were without some order of things moves, so, believe me, and the witches were one of the cancerous early work that affected the work of the judicial authorities, the work of the municipal court, the work of the Sombor Trade Court, etc. They were always the same people, people who determined the minors on some chaotic cousin-burazer line, regardless of their expertise, regardless of their dignity, that's where I'd agree with my colleagues who were giving an accent on the dignity of an artist and we saw the same experts forging themselves. And this bill, in my view, given that the applicable law in the conditions for the performance of the art work, as we have said, the minister explained this exhaustively in her opening statement, which was brought back in 1987, really contains outdated solutions, so it is necessary to make it, given the importance of the experts in the court procedure. This bill very well defines the conditions for performing the skill-making work and is now allowing the selection, i.e. the appointment of the most professional persons from certain fields of art. Higher criteria are foreseen, both in terms of expertise, work experience, expertise, but also practical knowledge in the profession and experience. So, professional preparation can at least be high education and, we have seen, specialized vocational studies, specialized academic studies and at least higher education in a particular area and narrow specialization. There is an exception only to those needs of the President of the Courts who are looking for the skills they really don't have, and they need, from certain areas, and they have at least medium professional equipment and we all know that there are people who are dealing with, say, certain old trades that they don't have, and they need to be used in a certain form of a delict or any kind of court procedure. It is very good that the court’s authority is explicitly provided for to submit a proposal for the resolution of experts who perform unskilled and disorderly craftsmanship. I welcome our reform of the judicial system and, unlike my predecessors, I think it's a good thing and that's the thing that's already being seen on the ground, indeed, in the work of those municipal courts, so to speak, from which we come. The case works, in my opinion, is fully justified that the minister is in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, considering the needs of the courts, the one who practically publishes a public invitation to appoint an expert. Some colleagues say -- long deadlines, we lose a lot of walking. I wouldn't agree with that. I think it's 90 days from the day of adoption of this law, and it takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", for a public call to be made and to file requests from a person who wants to be a warlock, and for the already existing skills, it's a year, it's a perfectly appropriate deadline, and it's absolutely adequate reform and this part of the judiciary that applies to judicial skills. As my predecessors have said, it is very important that registers be introduced. So registers are introduced for both natural persons who can be warlocks and legal persons. It is known that the solution to their appointment is also made by the minister. On the basis of the solution, there is a registration. Witches are being introduced to the Registry. The very notion of what art is, it is a set of activities that provide the court with all that expertise in determining legally relevant facts, talking about the importance of skill. I'd say that the reasons that are listed for solving the arts are quite adequate and that they contain, in some way, the question of the dignity of an expert. If one expert has proven to be a disorderly or unprofessional skill, that it is such a finding, and they point to how the presidents of the courts and other parties in the process, I think it is one of the ways that any competent minister who is doing his job properly, and our minister, it is certain that such an expert, in an emergency procedure, will be deleted from the register. I wouldn't talk any further about the formal things this law makes, but it's important that all these candidates for non-registered artists, who are not appointed by the Minister of Arts' decision, can initiate a procedure, an administrative dispute. It is very important that the Register of Experts will be with all the information provided for in the bill. As far as natural persons are concerned, it is also the name and last name, the number of solutions and their educations that they have acquired, etc., and as far as legal persons are concerned, the activity for which they are registered, then the persons who possess permanent employment as an expert, again the solution, etc. and the important news is that the bill provides for the process of eradicating legal persons as an expert, which so far we have not had in the old law. As far as the Register of Legal Persons is concerned, the register of law enforcement officers is headed by the minister, the minister decides on all requirements. The difference compared to the previous, or existing law in the conditions for the acquisition of the right of the skills is that the reasons for erasing the legal person are specified, as I said, from the Register. The expert has the right to compensation for expenses and the right to a reward, whose height is determined by the regulation on the ex post cost of court proceedings. In my opinion, it's not a bad thing that witches will get their stamps that will be, I don't know, 4.5 to 2.5 centimeters, on which they will stand their name and last name and that they are witches, that's even good. That's what formalizes them and more. They are obliged to perform in a given period of skill, that is, what is predicted, their intricacies, or irregularities. They're messy if they don't respond to the court's calls, if they don't give their skills within a given time limit, and of course they're unprofessional when they give incorrect, incomplete, vague and contradictory findings, based on which the courts can't really judge. So far, there has been an expert code, we know that it exists today, but in my humble opinion and opinion of all people who are well-intentioned when this matter is concerned, absolutely no one has adhered to that code, so we all knew about what it was about that witch in court and what it was like. I had a year and a half ago a case of a colleague who is a graduate economist, who is an authorised accountant, who is an authorised budgetary auditor and by a judge at the request of a party in court, which has nothing to do with politics, was indeed excluded only because she was a member of a political party. Believe me, there's a record of that in the District Court of Odjacs. I already told you about the deadlines that they're absolutely fine and we're not losing anything. So once again this bill of law is clear, comprehensive, short, there are only thirty members, precise and I think that by adopting this law, that is, I am sure, to improve the work of our judicial system, we are going to make it work better, more effective and more efficient, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41404	Ten minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Does the MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a draft law on judicial experts, which the Serbian government has proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is stated that so far, the courts have seen many shortcomings and problems with the work of judicial experts. In the view of the Government, its impunity by an emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the judicial authorities. To remind you, the applicable law on conditions for performing a job of art was passed back in 1987 and we have to start today first of that fact. On behalf of the SRS, I ask the question – why is the law passed by emergency procedure? Why didn't you do anything for 10 years when you knew that the applicable law was anachron and exceeded, and that performing skill was of exceptional importance to the efficiency and quality of the work of courts. Why were you late and long ago when we had personnel covering this area, and there were long ago requests from various associations of judicial skills to regulate this area long ago? The only thing we don't seem to have is the good will of the government to go seriously into this reform. We are facing a very important and important law that could speed up judicial proceedings and judicial reform. Through a series of arguments, I will try to point out his shortcomings, which is why this bill has failed to answer understandable and justified questions. Skilling is a means of proof in a judicial, criminal or administrative procedure which is resorted to in the event that, in order to determine or assess a fact, there is a need for expertise which does not have a person in charge of the proceedings. The find and opinion of the expert as a court statement should be an independent and independent means of proof. The expert's testimony is extremely significant in the court's proceedings, so in many cases the verdicts depend on the findings and opinions of the court's expert. The court's skills have been at an unsatisfactory level in recent years, according to a general assessment of courts and parties in the dispute. Some artisans are largely subjective, and artificial findings are insufficiently professional and without complete documentation and arguments. The consequences of this condition are negative and multiple. The parties to the dispute are exposed to increased costs, and the courts have been brought into a situation that cannot be effectively and qualitatively ruled. I'd like to point out the real need to regulate this area by law. When I say - this area, I'm looking at it a little bit wider. I want to say that this topic is much broader and I think it's a good thing that we opened this topic on one law that essentially doesn't solve this problem. Now a little bit wider, Mrs. Komic, it's all about this subject, in advance to tell you that you don't think that I'm away from the topic. We these days, the SRS has promoted the historic and capital work of our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, the latest book he wrote in the detention of The Hague tribunal, which has been in place since 24 February 2003. The book "Police File" has four volumes and over 4,000 pages and represents the strongest, greatest and most authentic evidence that the joint criminal enterprise did not exist and that it did not even participate in it. In the course of the trial, about 80 witnesses from the prosecution were heard, 10 of them experts from various areas. At the trial of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, all guaranteed rights were violated, as a defendant, who defends himself, and certainly the most harsh, right to be tried within reasonable time and without undue delay. In the course of the trial, Vojislav Seselj challenged the professionality and similarity of the Hague tribunal's expert on hate speech, Anthony Obershal was the doctor of sociology, who first graduated physics and studied tribes in Africa for 20 years. Seselj challenged hate speech as the form of the execution of any crime. Also, an expert in The Hague's Demography Prosecutor's Office, Eva Tabo, presented a report from the 2003 Ministry of Democracy and National Minority of Vojvodina study, saying that the reduction of Croats in Hrtkovci was the result of persecution. Seselj argued that Tabo acted unprofessionally in making a report on the emigration of non-Serbs from Krtkovci, tending to qualify the process for incorrect data drawn out of context. Seselj resented that simplifying demographic movements forged the situation and that the correct scientific method would produce different results. Andreas Ridlmeyer is also an expert in the prosecution, but for Islamic religious objects. Seselj challenged the expertise of a historian witness, Ridlmeyer engaged in lobbying and adopting the request of the administration of Bill Clinton to lift the arms embargo for Muslims. Serbian religious facilities, according to Ridlmeyer's report, were not killed during the war in BiH at all. The artist recorded only Muslim and Croatian religious objects that were destroyed. The impartiality of the experts of the indictment was seriously lashed when provoked by cross-examination of the accused, Seselj, the witness, the expert, called Serbian radicals neo-Nazis. During the trial, the president of the court council, Jean Claude Antonetti, warned the expert that he must be impartial. Witness of the indictment and artist Ivo Tomic (Yves Tomic), French Master of Slavics... (President: National MPs, please bring comparative examples of experts who have been elected under the laws of other countries or by the regulations of international law in connection with the provisions of this law or with examples of domestic legislation, i.e. to respect Rule 103 of our Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about warlocks, and later on, I'm going to talk about how this witch law and other legislation is regulated, if you don't mind. (President: I've just asked you to link examples. I'll get it. I'm telling you, I'm talking about the experts who were skilled in the process of Vojislav Seselj, and later I'm going to talk about a comparative analysis of our draft law on art... (President: National MPs, do not talk about witches, i.e. legislation, international or domestic, other countries concerned with the arts. You're talking about cases from court practice. Please, in accordance with Article 103, start talking about the subject that is on the agenda, the bill that is before us. I'm just going to do one more sentence, so I'm going to go to law school. All the witches tried by The Hague prosecutor's office failed to prove anything that was put on Seselj's burden. Let's get back to the bill. The SRS underlines the exceptional seriousness, importance and role of witches, especially its expertise, independence and morality. The question of the professional likeness of an expert is in law a fundamental problem, according to us. Articles 6 and 7. The laws are imprecise, and they speak of expertise, as a catch for performing skills. I would like to ask a question – what is the meaning of expertise and practical experience in a particular field of art, which relates to Article 6(3)? It means that a natural person can be appointed an expert if, in addition to the general conditions, he meets and has the expertise and practical experience in a particular field of art. This does not mean that every specialist, in itself or just for that reason, is an absolute guarantee of a highly and completely true skill. The professional scientific or university title is the assumption that such a person has the highest knowledge and skills in the field he deals with. However, one who does not consider his titles and diplomas as the need for further professional training and doing scientific work cannot reach the level of a truly top expert. Without it, the expert is unfinished, remains at the level of time when he received diplomas and titles, so as such he can be more harmful because of his incriminatingness than he who has just finished specialization. We believe that expertise, therefore, specialization, is not enough for the work of an expert. Why would the profession of judicial skills be somewhat privileged? Why shouldn't court experts have some kind of education and then get the calling of a court expert, as there are licenses for almost all professions in Serbia today? In this way, court experts would not only be more professional, but also more moral and safe in doing their jobs. Then there is the question – how can the artist be independent and impartial when the expertise and practical experience for a particular area of skill also prove by confirmation, i.e. by opinion or recommendation of the courts? Article 7 states that the expertise and practical experience for a particular area of skills can prove, among other things, the opinions or recommendations of the courts. We find this simply inadmissible because in this way courts can also be subjective, and they cannot objectively assess the expertise of the experts, because it is contradictory in general in the role of the experts in the trial. The condition that a natural person can perform an artisan is that it's registered in the Register of Arts. It's nothing new. Today, there is a Register of Arts in Serbia, and there are about 2,000 artists in various areas on that list, such as construction, financial and economic, machine, medical, traffic, etc. There are only over 1,000 judicial experts in Belgrade who are doing their job safely. This law doesn't seem any good, nothing has changed, and the question is, can it survive? It's not about meeting things, it's about solving the problem. You'll be able to resolve an expert by article 19 if immediately, and within eight days at the latest, you don't notify the Ministry of the changes in the data that are being entered into the Register of Experts. How are you going to react when the state authorities, as well as scientific and professional institutions, do not end your art for months and do not return the court file? It is also inadmissible and extremely discriminatory that in these institutions, therefore, institutions where the most complicated skills are performed, they can perform the skills of persons who are not enrolled in the Register of Judicial Arts. For the sake of the public, too, to remind myself, the Law stipulates that art can deal with natural persons, provided that they are also professional, but also that they are registered in the Register of Judicial Arts, then legal persons, if they meet the following conditions: that (legal person) is entered in the Register of the Competent Authority for the Labour of Arts in the relevant area and that the legal person employs persons enrolled in the Register of Arts. Therefore, natural and legal persons are subject to the condition that persons performing artificial activities must be included in the list of court-laws. However, Article 10 states that skills can also be performed by state authorities, as well as by scientific and professional institutions, colleges, institutes, but nowhere in the article is it mentioned that only employees who are enrolled in the Register of Arts can perform art. This is a big mistake and a lack of law, because the most complex skills are entrusted to these institutions. The institutions can educate commissions from scientific and professional workers who are employed by them, and are not enrolled in the Register of Experts, which is, in addition to expertise, a condition for someone to be an expert. The basic purpose is that no one suspects the findings of the witch. This opens up a space for guesses that can be true, but they don't have to be true. Inaccurately, vaguely and confusingly, the law mentions a solution for an artist who is not safe, objective, independent and impartial in doing his job. Article 19 regulates when the court's expert is resolved. There are eight points that are listed when a court expert can be resolved. Point 8 speaks – "if he does business in a messy way or inextricably". However, there is nowhere to be said that a court expert can be resolved if he unwittingly does his job. But, in Article 18, which is why I say it is confusing, it states: ''The reasoned proposal to resolve the arts because of disorderly or unconscious skill can be filed by the court, by the authority leading the proceedings, or by the party or other participants in the court or other proceedings. '"This way it comes to the fact that the law is interpreted differently and that it can be a matter of abuse and mistreatment. That the conscience and morals of the artist do not fail and fail require precise procedural guarantees in the art process. This law required the addition of the procedure and the appointment and discharge of the skills by the court in a way that would eliminate those negativity. In an effort to improve the appointment of skills by the court, some legislation has introduced specific ways of determining the skills. Thus, control skills were adopted in France, when the court appointed an expert, but the defendant has the right to choose his own expert, whose task is to carry out additional supervision of superior skill, and in this respect the defendant must pay for that skill. In our criminal act, the expert has appointed a court, a written order. The parties do not participate in the selection and determination of the skills. In the selection of the experts, its expertise, i.e. professional authority, should be decisive, not the favor of the judge, which often happens when the court appoints an expert. The continued involvement of the same artist by the same judge was formerly a practice, providing an artificially over-expanded comodity in the work and can create in the expert belief that his professional work is not subject to any control, which is one of the causes of superficial treatment, ease and insufficiently justified performance of expert conclusions. On the other hand, by accepting such an expert opinion, the judge is defending himself behind the expert's report and transferring responsibility to him, and if there were another expert opinion the judges would not have done so. This law does not provide for artificial control. Art control is just one of the guarantees for his regularity. The subject of control is the very course of art, research and expert opinion. In our right, the only possible control is by another expert in case the court orders a re-art. All of this extends the trial. From the moment the prosecutor filed a lawsuit to the first-degree judicial authority and the court began a process in which the art is inevitable, to the beginning of the work of the expert, especially in court disputes where multidisciplinary art is required, until the end of the skill and the handover of the findings and opinions of the expert averaged between three and six months, and in the most complicated cases up to twelve months. The consequences of this are devastating, and the damage to both the states and the people. And because of that, and because of many other problems that are not open in this law, the SRS will not vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41406	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41407	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, the New Serbia Parliament Club will, in principle, try to point only to some essential problems, which, if this law is passed in such a hurry, perhaps too quickly, will lead to a problem. You know, Minister, when it comes to the New Serbia Parliament Club, we're trying to propose something that's celery, which is good. You know that we've given a good amendment, which you've arguedly accepted, about admitting guilt for 12 years, which must have fixed a lot of things in practice, even though that institute, unfortunately, has not yet come to life, but I hope that will happen soon. As always, we will essentially try to point out some problems. It remains a little vague, of course, sure, that we will welcome that the high criteria in determining the skills are a priority. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in practice in the future, but I think it's a little too fast. Practically, we've only submitted two amendments, which, I think, if you accept, will solve some of your misunderstandings. If not, the practice remains to show what it will look like. In the draft law on judicial warlocks, there are not exactly some conditions that can deal with art. I think that there should have been some conditions that could be, first of all, when it comes to the status of that person, that he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, that he has general health skills, at least medium professional training, for example, because you are predicting in article 6 and such a possibility and at least 10 years of work experience. We can immediately notice that criteria are practically raised only when it comes to qualifications – professional preparation, but that criteria move, when it comes to working experience, from 10 to five years, which we do not think is good, so we have submitted the amendment to Article 6(2), to make it mandatory 10 years of work experience on these jobs. In Item 2, of this Article 6, you foresee the option – ''Exteriorly, from the position of the 1st member, the artist may be appointed a person who has the least completed high school, if there is not enough skills for a particular field of art with acquired higher education. There is a certain need for discrimination between persons. Practically, those with completed high school living in a bigger city have been eliminated. And if they live in an environment that unfortunately doesn't have that kind of personnel, they're favored. I think, Madam Minister, that this could have been resolved elegantly, that in the transitional period until we reach these criteria, only highly educated persons could perform quality skills, so that Article 6 of Section 2 could be written - extremely, from the position of the 1st member, for an expert, be appointed a person who has the least completed high school and 15 years of experience in art affairs, provided that the competent courts, for which the skills have been carried out, give a recommendation to the opinion of the minister who makes the final decision. Why is that? First, we would eliminate this discrimination whether someone lives in a small or large environment. And, uh, we'd have a phasing. Believe me, in practice there are extremely high-quality arts with higher school, who do a great job, even with high school, and in this way, a large number of artists who have been eliminated for years from being able to work, and the only possibility that they can continue, which in the small middle is that there are no quality people. If we are leaving such an opportunity, then let us also give opportunities to those who have been doing their job for years. In my opinion, either he can or can't. If he can't go to high school, then he needs to bring in some other town and have the same archaic for everyone. Don't understand my discussion that I'm trying to do that. I support high standards, but if we're leaving one of these options in the law, then let those people who have been working for over 15 years take natural selection, slowly and slowly, give their jobs to high-speed people, because I think that's how we'll all be satisfied. What am I telling you this for? It happens in practice that the court determines an expert with high criteria, but it also happens that after a month, the artist returns the case, and then some of these experts who have been working for years, because they're free to do their job... Why am I saying this? Not to protect some artists who do not meet these criteria under the bill, but who will eventually suffer parties in these proceedings. Maybe you should have made some rank list. For example, persons with medium professional training – first rank, persons with higher professional training – second rank, those with a high – third rank, specialists, masters, doctors of science – fourth rank. There's in practice some detail that maybe it's below the level that one of the engineers on some ground, say, the engineers some shed or so. So I think it was supposed to be a little more elegant to get out of all this. So we stay on the stand – either everyone can, or no one can. Of course, with a slight transition like this, I think that this would certainly be welcomed by the holders of judicial functions, because on the ground they meet quality geometry, with quality people doing their job perfectly, and this is how we brutally eliminate them. I'm sure I'm trying to advocate a high criterion for some time, but, just as the new generations and new witches come along, I'm afraid that by respecting only high criteria, we don't make one void. Because, objectively speaking, this judicial reform has given us a large number of judges, and we have very good young judges, so if we suddenly have young judges and artists with five years of work experience, I'm afraid at one point there's no specific collapse in cases. You decide what you think. Of course, you're here to defend one law or not, and to accept or not something the opposition points to. If you do not accept this solution, nothing ultimate, I think in Article 30, paragraph 2, you extend this deadline to two years. There are a lot of procedures that have been initiated, there are a lot of dissuading procedures, and I think that it can also be bridged, at least by an extension of a year, by this big turn in court practice, when it comes to court experts. Well, that would be the essence of what I was about to say. Once again, I say - let's welcome the high criteria, but we think it should be a little bit easier, don't cut across your knees, because, as the people say, 'which is fast, it often becomes short'. I think you'll have an understanding of this. Why am I saying all this? I'm afraid we'll have a slower solution to court disputes. Believe me, that's what practice proved. It's different when we're sitting here in the O.R. and the theory is getting different and more acceptable, and I agree, but when you go to one court, you go to trial, so it happens, like I said, that the case comes back after a month because maybe that man is too busy with the criteria in front of some people, then they suffer parties. I have to tell you that no matter what, very often their payment requests were much more expensive than those that, of course, are also good at doing the art and, of course, which collects court proceedings, and we know that it's not so little anymore. Madam Minister, you know that extremely expensive court fees, as you know last year we raised 50% of the court fees, so there's also a fee on the lawsuit, a fee on the verdict, possibly on the appeal, then on the execution, and then, of course, as you know, it always happens to stop there. I hope you'll put in the procedure of the Executive Procedures Act very quickly. I'm going to tell you on this occasion that right now in the King, in the Court of First Instance, there are over 20,000 cases, that there are over 5,000 cases. This is the time to point out something that may be unpopular when we are in such a difficult situation – Telecom Serbia is mass-sugaring the citizens of the Kings, there are over a thousand lawsuits, and it is announced about three or four thousand lawsuits for some small debts, how much, practically, it costs to print these lawsuits. I don't think it's time for citizens to be treated like this in such a difficult situation and grieve. I understand that you may be going to Telecom, but bear in mind that this is not the time for small amounts to be sued by citizens, given the amount of court costs you're going to be much higher. So, when it comes to judicial experts, once again, the recommendation of the New Serbia Parliament Club is that the adoption of these amendments should be elegantly overcoming any problems that can arise in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41408	Thank you. Since none of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives are answering for a word, I ask, is there anyone else who has the right to say a word at this point? (No) We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the principled search. I give my word to Ambassador Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41409	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the draft law on judicial experts and the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97, point 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In so far's practice, courts have seen many shortages and problems with the work of an expert. Furthermore, given the importance of the expert in the court proceedings, the need for their expertise which the court does not have, it is necessary to pass a law in a different way to regulate the conditions for performing skill-making activities as well as the process of appointing and dispensing the skills. In addition, the applicable law, let us remind, more specifically, the Law on Conditions for Performing Fines, was passed back in 1987 and contains outdated and anachronic solutions, and therefore it is necessary to pass a new law. The conditions for performing skills must be so set up as to ensure the appointment of the most professional persons for certain areas of art. Therefore, higher criteria are foreseen, both in terms of professional training and in terms of work experience, expertise and practical experience in the profession. Since the exercise of skill is of an impact on efficiency, and especially on the quality of the court's work, it is necessary to provide for the court's authority to adopt a proposal for the resolution of skills that perform artificially and disorderly skills. Who do they trust with art? Skills are believed to be both physical and legal. At the same time, we are reminded that even in current legal practice, more specifically in the Law on Procedural Procedure, skills can also be entrusted to institutions, especially when it comes to, for example, graphic skills. Article 1 The bill of law actually introduces us to the essence of the problem that this law will deal with. Thus, this law regulates the conditions for the exercise of skill, the procedure for the appointment and discharge of court craftsmen, the procedure for enrolment, the erasure of legal persons as well as the rights and obligations of persons carrying out skills. The activities of the artisan represent, as has already been precise and said, an activity which, with the use of scientific, technical and other achievements, is provided to the court or to another body that conducts the expertise procedure used in the determination of the assessment or resolution of the facts legally relevant. Let's remind ourselves that's very important. It is also important to create such a normative framework so that in the judgments we have one professional basis in the very reason. The conditions for performing skills are provided for by the Decident Article 6 and say that a natural person can be appointed an expert, in addition to the general conditions for working in the state bodies prescribed by law, other conditions that are listed here also provide for. The expertise and practical experience for a given area of skill shall prove the candidate for the expert or scientific work published, a certificate of participation in consultations in the organisation of expert associations etc. Also, the bill further provides for decadent conditions for a legal person to meet the conditions for performing an art. As I said, art can be performed by state authorities within which skills can be performed, as well as by scientific and professional institutions and universities, institutes etc. The process of appointment and resolution is envisaged by this bill and the need for experts from a given area. The arts are actually delivered to the ministry, the presidents of the first-degree, now the primary courts and the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The minister announces a public call in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and on the Ministry's website. It is necessary to refer to the presentations of previous colleagues who spoke. So here are the decidently mentioned questions dealing with this law, and other issues that actually involve experts in court disputes are provided for by the Law on Prosecution. Thus, for example, Article 253 of the current Law on the Procedural Procedure states that an expert may be excluded or excluded for reasons such as a judge or a jury judge, which is a notorous fact. It is also interesting, as far as the artist's personality is concerned, that there is a proposal for a particular party in the court proceedings, but which must be precisely determined by the subject and the scope of the art. In the event that the opposing party does not accept this proposal, the court shall decide on this, etc. It is necessary to note in this place that, too, in the Law on the Prosecution of Procedure, it is decadent that fines are provided for, I say, disrespect of procedural discipline in the making of findings and opinions of the experts etc., etc. We believe that this is how a normative framework will be arranged in this area that is very important for judicial reform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41410	Thank you. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41411	Dear President, Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law, which, said Minister Malovic, is in a very important and large relationship with the full reform in the judiciary that was carried out in 2008. He is indeed in a relationship, but the problems and effects of and poor judicial reform will definitely reflect the application of this law and prevent the possibility of improving the situation in this very important area for the good and quality functioning of the judicial system and, above all, that what interests all citizens, which is to correctly determine the factual situation and that decisions, applying material law, are made quickly and in line with the deadlines. I'd like to remind you, and you'll see what it's all about with this bill of law, the explanation we've heard when we're discussing in the National Assembly of Laws on the establishment of a network of courts. Then, among other things, the Justice and Administration Committee itself was told that courts were abolished in small towns because the degree of corruption in these courts, because of the link between lawyers and judges, was so pronounced that the way to prevent corruption from being lifted in small areas. All those who deal with the judiciary, the problems of the judiciary, know exactly what the problem is in these so-called small environments, is incomparably greater than the relation of judges, experts and skills, as well as the problem of their participation in certain judicial proceedings. This is exactly where the key problem lies, not only in the unquality decisions that courts make, but also in corruption. And the fundamental question that this law needs to address is to increase the expertise and efficiency of this important segment, which refers to giving an opinion in determining facts in those situations where the court lacks sufficient expertise. Now, we have a situation that in a large number of small municipalities we have abolished the courts, that we have chosen new judges, that not only by the public here, but also by the European Commission, the disputed way of choosing, but precisely in that segment that is most important, which is a matter of expertise, and now we expect that this expertise, which has been questioned in the basic courts and in the higher courts, will be presented through the selection of experts. That's a very controversial question. I will try through the solutions that are proposed in this law to indicate where the problem is, in fact, and where the fundamental shortcomings of this law are. What each expert should fulfill in the work of a particular case assigned to him by the court is: that he is worthy, that he is professional, and that he unbiased to find. In this bill of law, it's missing. Let's take the turn. When conditions are defined, in Article 6, we don't get a precise answer as to what "practical experience of an expert" means. In addition, it is said that the artist should have at least five years of professional experience, and in point 3 he should have "expert knowledge and practical experience". Then in Article 7, he says that "The expertise and practical experience for a particular area of skill of the candidate for the artist" and says –it proves to be serious with its published professional and scientific works, a confirmation of participation in consultations, opinions by the Association of Scientific and Other Institutions. So you're not talking about a practical experience anywhere. These are all reasons relating to his expertise. Then it is said: "as well as opinions or recommendations from courts or state authorities where this art is done." This is absolutely unnecessary, based on the opinion of the court, to claim that some expert has expertise or practical experience. Whether an expert has professional knowledge or practical experience, in the extreme line, can only be determined by the Ministry, who, through the work of that expert, by the number of broken objects, by his findings, by the number of done, as it is said in practice, can say whether this expert has professional knowledge or practical experience, rather than by the opinion of the court, claims that some expert owns it. So the concept of practical experience is in no way defined here. What represents a key problem, and related to this judicial reform, is the question of the reason for solving the arts based on unprofessionally done art, when the artist gives incorrect findings. Well, the expert is engaged because the court doesn't have that expertise to find out about certain facts. Now, the court, which has no skills, needs to establish that the expert gave an incorrect finding and recommended, in the end, that the ministry be resolved. That's absolutely impossible. Neither courts have that capacity, nor do they have that knowledge that they value artificial findings as incorrect. In addition, courts where the number of judges, where the inflow of cases is increased, are now required to do a serious and very demanding job – to monitor the work of an expert, to analyse his findings, and to keep the Ministry informed of all this at the same time. The courts, in a state that was created after the reform, do not have the capacity to do so. Certainly, it will not lead to the Justice Department having the opportunity to properly appreciate whether the expert gave an unprofessional finding, whether he gave an incomplete finding and, in the end, whether he was doing his job in a safe way at all. A very important and key problem is the way in which courts will determine experts in certain cases. Not to mention that there's no dilute question of what happens if in one environment where, at this point, we don't have basic courts, we have departments, we don't have any skills? How will it be determined, how will the courts determine the skills of the list listed in the Register and to what extent will it increase or not increase costs? The biggest problem is if in one small environment we only have one expert in one profession. If we don't have the competition of an expert, even at the level of a higher court, it will create a serious and large space for corruption. So, just one expert who's an expert in one court, in all cases, in one area?- I'm sorry. At least the Ministry should be able to determine from some list, which is formed after the formation of the Register, at the level of the higher court, the experts in some order in certain cases in courts, and not only allow the court to determine the artist who has the sole residence in that environment. I remind you, it is not a problem between courts and lawyers, as stated here as a reason why courts in certain municipalities have been abolished and that this creates corruption, the bigger problem is precisely in evidence procedures and in these matters. All of us who have been in practice know what this problem is and what degree of corruption is in a situation where objects of art are given to individuals who have, to say the monopoly in that profession. I must say that the introduction of the Register is indeed progressing in relation to the state we've had so far. Now we've had a situation where the courts completely delineate individual arts in certain areas. The medical profession is the best example of this problem. As many doctors as there are in one home of health, all potential warlocks, although they have no license, no possibility, are confirmed as experts in their profession. Now, this register will contribute, but allow at least at the level of the higher court all the experts in this profession, in some order, as judges in the cases are now determined, to be able to perform warlocks. These are some key remarks that I would like to highlight, which are in practice visible and which can create a major problem, but the problem that is not solved is: determining and defining who is going to say whether a finding is inextricable, how to determine what is a practical experience, and on what criteria the experts will type into the court register. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41412	The word has an MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41413	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO has as a correct and constructive coalition partner supported the ruling majority, for many reasons, judicial reform and all the legal proposals that have so far been made in the assembly procedure. We were interested, we also followed the draft law on judicial warlocks and analyzed the proposal for this law in detail. What's first and general is that we expected more. Please, Madam Minister, pay attention to all the arguments I will make, because it is not political, it is based on detailed analysis, analysis of comparative legislation, analysis of the situation in our judiciary and is given by highly qualified experts. About the existing law, currently in force, I won't talk about anything because the solution that someone has become a judicial expert, that is, for the first time the Ministry saw the moment the artist went to take the solution and became a judicial expert. Malten, there were no expert checks, no dignity, no objectivity, and nothing else before that. As a consequence, we had a general public hearing, and I would like to point out that the Serbian judiciary has in all areas of outstanding moral professional and objective skills, but there is also an immediate problem, since most often they are not networked, corrupt, they usually have the least work to do. I'll tell you a characteristic example. In front of one of the major courts in the Republic of Serbia, one expert repeatedly complained that he had little to do. As a representative of the insurance company I represented, I often suggested this expert. The judges were defiant and a lot of colleagues said today, and I think that's the central question, that many judges had their own skills, that many lawyers had their own skills and that the tariff of maltene was poor. Now, if that's the case, and the representatives of all the parliamentary groups put out, then we need to see how we get out of it. Let's finish the story of that court expert, and suddenly he's starting to do warlocks, malts, in all cases. He was a favorite lawyer artist and ended up in the Special Court of Organized Crime, and was sentenced to three years in prison, in a group called the "a traffic mob". Several times, when I was talking about the state of our judiciary, I pointed to the problem of the court's skills. It is formal and according to the Law on Criminal Procedure and under the Law on the Prosecution Procedure of Finest One of the evidence in the court proceedings and again, formally, the theoretical court is obliged to value the art within all other evidence, equally, but in practice, and in practice it has already been brought to life in the people, our people say – the expert judges. It's a central question, an expert ruling. In several thousand cases, in my own practice of courting, and I entered 80% of Serbian courts, I met only once a judge who appreciated the findings and opinion of the experts and explained it. She said, in this part, I accept the findings and the opinion of the experts, because, in accordance with other evidence, etc., and in this part I do not accept the findings and the opinion of the experts and, also, made an extraordinary explanation, and this verdict was confirmed by the Supreme Court. What are the other witches doing? The findings and opinions of the experts may be contrary to the overall documentation in the case file, with witness statements, with statements by the parties, etc. The court will appeal to the phrase that the finding and opinion were given by an expert in whose objectivity the court had no reason to doubt, hence the objections of the unsatisfactory party were unfounded. Now, if we ended up in the largest part of justice, reform, and if we expect good results, we expected this law to be clearer, that in a number of provisions, a way to develop and sign up the skills, i.e. obtaining licenses and conditions and supervision and periodic assessment of the work of the experts, but also many of the accompanying problems that we face in practice. Let's just say, it's common knowledge that an artist must have skill, objectivity, but he must also be a brave man. The artist will often, and especially the expert, in large areas there are bigger mafias, to be hit by some mob, because his findings will not match the defendants in a criminal procedure for organised crime, etc., but will also be resented by judges and lawyers, and many in the local community. Do we today have in the Serbian judiciary witches who are dominantly objective, professional and courageous? It seems to me, as well as the results of the War Crimes Court's work and the Organized Crimes Court show, that around there, it is more careful to take care of who's going to be the warlocks. Believe me, and as I was and inexperienced at first I thought – there's no problem, the case is with a court expert, it doesn't hurt my head. 90% of the time I had a headache. I will also mention some items that are still burdening the Serbian public. In 1994, the murder of journalist Dade Vujasinovic, the experts found it was suicide and, imagine, twice, Dada Vujasinovic shot herself from a hunting rifle to a witch. It was only after 15 years that there was another craftsmanship, where it was found to be a murder. One of the colleagues mentioned the murder of soldiers in Topcider, but interestingly, the same warlocks who were skilled in this case, they were both skilled in this other case and of course all the later art, both the FBI and the Independent Commission and another commission of experts found it was murder and killed by a third party. If that's how it happens in cases where the general public is interested and where the eyes are all over our public, imagine what happens in cases where the public isn't interested? Understand now what pride, pride and security it is in the lies of those witches, what a network of things it is. In front of the Niš Municipal Court, an expert who specializes in all medical professions is treated. He is both a psychologist and psychiatrist and a neuropsychiatrist and orthopedist and intern and cardiologist, and in front of the Municipality court in Novi Sad, in one complex case, where it was obviously a medical error, but of course, colleagues from Novi Sad did not want their colleagues to put a noose around their necks, who made a medical mistake, the judicial and medical board refused to witch. An expert from Nis has appeared who has now given his expert opinion as a pharmacologist. This law vaguely and incorrectly prohibits, he says the witches will be enrolled in the Register of Judicial Arts, as far as one area is concerned, but I think this should be elaborated more. What are the consequences of this skillful behavior? Many broken families, large lost property, the failure of a large number of our companies, the release of criminals or the mitigation of their sentences, the exercise of the right to unfounded damage. I've talked here a few times about New Sad warlocks, who are diagnosed with one of those same kind of injuries for which there is no objective finding. There's a scheme, there's a tariff, there's everything. It's all known, no one's responding. Leading to bankruptcy and companies and families, do you know just how many suicides there have been, which are directly due to the unconscious and unobstructed behavior of judicial experts? Is there any potential today for us, with the re-election of the arts, to actually create a quality basis for quality art? Yes, but in order to do that, it seems to me that in the normative part, we need to make a much more precise provision of this law, and I will point out which. There's a famous artist, he's a neuropsychiatist, at a time when neurology and psychiatry was one and the same branch of medicine. He wrote one of the most important textbooks in the area, perhaps the most significant. But he also boasted that in his rich jurisprudence he had never, but never, in the regressive procedures against drunk drivers, found a causal link between alcoholism and a car accident, regardless of whether alcoholism was over two, three, four promiscuous. Professionality doesn't mean dignity either. Knowledge doesn't mean objectivity either. Under the current law, which is still in force, witches don't get a license, so I can't even lose it. It seems to me, and I've been looking for a lot of that data, and no one's ever released today that one single court expert has so far been held accountable for an unobstructed finding and opinion. If today all the MPs who participated in this discussion have similarly shown a picture of the situation, as far as the court's skills are concerned, and no one has responded, or may have, but a small number, there is no such data. Obviously, even though there was someone who was responding, I don't know, then it's certainly a negligible number in relation to the damage that the experts have done with their actions. What do we think this law was supposed to predict? In addition to forming an expert commission that would, above all, appreciate the expert's expertise, should have been introduced, because of the situation that is today as it is, and occasional control. The artist has his own journal of art. The Ministry has its own Register of Arts. The minister forms an ad hoc commission, composed of the most invited experts in the area. There are a lot of objections to the objectivity of this artist's work. The minister simply says – please make sure that the artist, indeed, has many objections both citizens and judges, works in accordance with the rules of the profession. It's been determined that it doesn't comply with the rules of the profession and what? In addition to being resolved, he should be held accountable, but he should make up for the damage, for his actions have caused someone harm. This law could therefore have provided for, and I also submitted the amendment and cited the provision that many laws provide for in parallel legislation – insurance of skills from activity. Well, if the expert doesn't have the property to charge directly for the damage he caused to his criminal activities, then it should be paid by the insurance company, as damage to activity. With this bill, fact-finding experts are chosen indefinitely. There's a constant in choosing judicial skills. We don't think that's good. For what? So far, they have been elected, factually, for good, until this law enters into force, which provides for re-election and has proved to be the same as mire, or equal to corruption. It seems to me that because of the general state of affairs, as far as an expert is concerned, an expert should be chosen for a period of four or six years. I've submitted an amendment to it for six years. I think there are some other reasons that are not only because of corruption and objectivity, and because it appreciates the expertise of making scientific findings and opinions, but simply, the artist who is now getting the solution is 75 years old, in six years he will be 81 years old and will not be deprived of business ability, and it will be seen, let's say, in the findings, that he wrote what his colleague just said "that the pedestrian killed the vehicle" etc., and no one has initiated the procedure or is in progress, etc. But it seems to me, first of all, because of corruption and the general condition, and because the experts who are now to be elected should have this kind of positive concern, that in six years, maybe because they haven't done well, they won't get a license from a court expert again, so they'll also take care of how the warlocks do. As far as court cases are concerned, if we've adopted a provision that, in fact, a lawyer or a party in a dispute can no longer choose a judge to whom the case will come to work, then it's unimaginable, Minister, believe me, this also leaves room for corruption. We didn't do anything unless the same provision applies to court-laws. If we've already enrolled them in the Register of Judicial Arts, let's take any court, the judge has every next case to give to another expert. Why would one expert, as a rule corrupt, have a lot of work, em's corrupt, em's got a lot of work to do, em gets just because he's corrupt and what he writes is based on the wishes of the parties, and the other one's safe and professional and there's no job. Give everyone an equal chance, and then we'll have a positive match between the witches. They'll all fight, as far as expertise is concerned. They'll all want to prove themselves. They will want one expert to prove that in terms of expertise, he is better than that of his colleague, and he will have equal income and equal treatment by the judges. As for the journals of published skills, in addition to the court records, I agree with my colleagues that, in addition to everything that the courts are overloaded, they still need to analyse the work of the experts, etc., I think it is enough to analyse once or twice a year at a general session of courts the work of the experts from these courts, to make recommendations, to propose resolutions, the need for new witches, etc. I think the warlocks should also run the journal of art. Believe me, if the current warlocks also had a journal of art, you'd see that there's always one and the same judge, the favorite judge and the favorite artist, that one of those same lawyers, the favorite lawyer, and only it wouldn't say that there's a certain tariff. As regards the data on expertise, of course the data on expertise should be made available to the public. As far as sanctions are concerned, I think he has a proposal to introduce a disciplinary commission. You and the representatives of your ministry announced it a year ago, so I don't think that would be bad. If we were to talk about it, here the colleagues mentioned, that we met daily in court practice, we met such findings and such opinions that a man would cross with both his left and his right hand, but it's not a problem, the problem is that such a finding and opinion accepts a first-degree court and gets confirmation at the High Court. I'll only tell you one opinion of the artist from one case in the King. ''In a theoretical sense, the injury described is severe. Viewed practically – this is easy. This injury is real easy, and by qualification it's hard. '"The Lord can't do as many objects as there are in the work – apartments, cars, anything else, he's a respected citizen. Well, just one expert and once to write a report like this and an opinion, the Ministry should immediately give him the solution that he's no longer a court expert, because that doesn't contribute to objectivity. As a rule, another skill is required, the oral statement of the artist is sought, the procedure slows down, the cost of the procedure is increased. What are we going to talk about about warlocks holding a class of eight or nine or ten years? The damaged party goes to the judge – the judge, when you are scheduled to make an appointment, says: the case is with the court expert. I know you're familiar with comparative law, and there are strict deadlines, even the obligation of an expert that if he doesn't get to make a written report and inform the court that he's not able to do so and that he's looking for a deadline. Afterwards, these are all the problems of practice, the Law did not predict what in a situation where a court expert does without a court order, and it did find an opinion for the needs of a court. In front of the municipal court in Novi Sad, according to the rules of the courts, the lawyer calls the expert and says – find the damages, do me a find and opinions, and the party says – quickly remove the car so no one can see it, so instead of the damage of 100 or 200 euros, the expert writes that the damage is five or six thousand euros. He appears before the court as objective, professional, sworn-worthy, witness-like, because he was the only one who saw damage as a witch, and then he confirms that what he wrote without a court order is exactly what he saw. They often went on a joke earlier that photos when the film was being developed, until digital appliances were, as a rule, damaged and could not be made, etc., but this law did not predict. It is okay that the parties often have the need to hire a private-needing expert, but the expert must not work without a court order, because the law on extra-parisal proceedings in that part is clear, but the abuses in this part are really great. Since on behalf of the MPs, I have submitted several amendments to this bill, believe me, and it is good that all other parliamentary groups think so, there are the least policies here. I've recognized good intentions from all sides, believe me, we'll do nothing seriously in judicial reform if we don't make radical changes to the Law of Judicial Experts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41414	Respecting that from the MPs' benches, I can truly hear certain findings, I have the need to, in the name of the greatest number of artists, who are doing their job quite correctly and safely, express my gratitude to those who have helped so far in the courts, both in yours and in my name, because they have worked competently and professionally. There are certain individuals, but perhaps some personal experiences should simply be minimized when we reveal the story. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all today's debates on the draft law on judicial experts are, in fact, in favour of our claim from the SRS that there is no reason for this law to be put on the agenda in an emergency session and by an emergency procedure. Now that that's the case, this proposal should have been done more seriously. We had here and we have daily draft laws on which the SRS MPs are taking the party's views and a lot of objections primarily for conceptual reasons, for a conceptual approach to resolving an area of social life in a way that the SRS would do and as you propose in the current regime. Of course, it's totally opposing, but this kind of hollow, this kind of flat, this kind of flat and bad bill, Mrs. Malovic, believe me, I don't know if I've seen how many years I've been a folk MP. You've heard of fellow MPs who will vote after the debate on this law. It's not good to pass the law just to get off the agenda. Mrs. Malovic, you have entered a serious reform of the judiciary. How well you have done and how good your reforms are, you are daily denied time and you are denied life. Of course, everything we said when there were words from the very beginning of these reforms, every day we meet with evidence, both in the media and in the professional public, that we were absolutely right. You remember when you told us – wait, at the end of the year you will see the benefits of these reforms. So you said -- wait, since February, you'll see how good these reforms are in the judiciary. The other day I heard you say that you should be patient with the people, about the end of this year, there will be shifts, or some positive effects of your reforms. You have proposed this bill and are asking us to adopt it as part of all these reforms. Why do we think it didn't have to be done like this? First, there was the law, the truth, from 1987, but it only says about something else, that there was a legal life, both in the judiciary and the witches, and before you. I'm not thinking about you personally right now, I'm thinking about the current regime. There was a law which, truth be told, was out of date, if nothing else, then because of the fact that it was the law from the time we lived in SFRY, and then we lived in the SRJ, so you destroyed it, so we lived in the community of Serbia-Montenegro, so you destroyed it. We're in Serbia today. And you're looking to destroy maximum in every area. This may be the reason why amendments and additions may change the Law on Judicial Experts, because the problems that have been discussed today are not in the existence of bad or no law, no, problems are in the system, problems are in a corrupt society, at the corrupt top of the government. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic says – thanks to the experts who worked safely, objectively, impartially. Well, well done, we're joining, but what we're going to say about the examples that my colleague Chikiriz was talking about, about that insidious explanation of whether it affected or didn't affect, now that I'm not repeating it, you heard earlier, and you all laughed, but that's also the find of the expert. So the problems are much deeper. The finding and opinion of the expert in the court proceedings, whether it's a crime or a lawsuit, is of exceptional importance. Many times, someone loses or gets a lie-based dispute based on abuse, false findings and opinions, based on corruption, based on a close relationship between an artist and a judge, or an expert and a lawyer, or in a trinity of lawyers, an expert and a judge. And we all know it's true. When we Serbian radicals speak, we argue that in our discussions we recognize a huge number of citizens in Serbia, now who is following the work of this Parliament, imagine how many people are going to say, yes, I have such experience, these radicals are right when they say, I have the experience that an artist who worked for another side, or for more money than they should get in regular skill. It's not that these witches are unprofessional, no, no, no, on the contrary. They're all corrupt and they're all so professional, they're all so nicely packed that you can't say, this is unprofessional. There are unprofessional ones, it's a special subject. But the biggest problem is artists who are not objective, who are corrupt, who are not independent, who are not impartial, such experts are the biggest problem. What do you want with this law now? You want to make more of these, like, artists one caste, like it's already done, let's say, with the licensing of bankruptcy managers. When we claimed it was the biggest nonsense, they laughed at us. Today, experts and media are talking about it more and more, etc. That's how it's gonna be with this. So, no additional education is necessary for people who can be experts, but your criteria in this bill are completely flat-rate, and I can say freely, and they don't exist. Who's going to be the expert? How will he be selected? How many experts in what court does it take? What criteria will they rule on? How are you, Mrs. Malovic, going to schedule that public invitation for the experts? How much will you be looking for? On what basis are you going to come up with that number to say we need 500 medical professions, we need 200 professional traffic professions, we need five of these or those professions? Where are the criteria in these thirty members of the law? You don't have that. You didn't see that coming. How? You'll make a deal, you'll make some party clans again and again, as you've made out of courts, so your head still hurts today because of that, even today, they call you. And that re-election problem, you and the judge know it's not over yet. We will need, as things stand, and as the Constitutional Court decides, both Bosa Nenadic and the legal profession experts to expert and such judgments and such decisions. I'm doing this a little bit now, but unfortunately, it really is, and you know that it is, and the citizens of Serbia know that I am absolutely right about all of this. You see, that's why we accused you, and you tried through these reforms, and in good work, to tribunal the Serbian judiciary, special courts, special prosecutors, witness associates, etc. You didn't want to hear us say it was bad experiences. You see, one of the reasons why you shouldn't have triangulated our judiciary is what happened in The Hague. How do you react as a man, as a Serbian, as a minister of justice? Did you, as justice minister, first of all, report to the fact that today in The Hague tribunal, two life sentences and 87 years of prison time have been handed over to Serbs: Vujadin Popovic for life, Ljubisa Beara for life, Drago Nikolic 35 years, Ljubomir Borovcanin 17 years, Radivoje Miletic 19 years, Milan Gvero for five years, Dinko Pandurevic 13 years. Is it possible that no one in the state of Serbia responds to such judgments? No! No! You're all set, but you're still missing Mladic and Hadzic. Instead of Mladić... (President: I'd just like to ask you to return to your agenda. We're talking about witches, please. ) Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I am talking about experts as part of the judiciary and illustrating examples, I think it is allowed. Right? You'll allow it. So instead of the young man, you arrest his wife, but here, they don't let it be talked about. Here, about the witches. As for the case, counterpart Chikiriz spoke of some examples of skills from Serbia. I have to mention several Hague tribunal artists, who Vojislav Seselj, to this extent, mocked that they had become the subject of mockery, not only in the Serbian public, but also in the European and world public. Some Obershal, a physicist, did not know to answer Vojislav Seselj's question – what is an imaginary number. We're going to have an Obershall in our expert group, because we have no criteria, you didn't foresee the criteria on which to choose, you didn't establish tangible criteria. I don't know, the expert of The Hague tribunal, Tunens, the weapons expert, didn't know how to answer Vojislav Seselj's question – how to break up the gun, he didn't know the difference between the rifle and the machine. Why am I talking about these examples? Because we, the Serbian radicals, strive to avoid such things in our judicial system, we cannot influence the one there, but we can, thank God, Vojislav Seselj as much as it affects, and that is maximum to make fun of them and make fools of them, to show to the entire world public that there is no one who can prove any guilt, because it is not. From here on out, we also appeal to you as a minister and a congregation majority not to make such nonsense and such mistakes in our judicial system. Mrs. Malovic, in article 6, where you are talking about conditions for performing skills, what will this attitude tell you that, exclusively from the position of this member, a person who has the least completed high school can be appointed as an expert, if there is not enough skills for a particular field of art with high education acquired. Do you pass the laws to lower the criteria or raise the criteria? If you're saying that what was done under the law so far was bad, then let it be something better now. How can he be an expert in any area, someone who isn't highly educated? With all the respect of all the people who are not, but there are some areas, there are some parts of society, of the system, where you really have to respect the profession and education. You say in Article 9, I have to admit, come on, let's say, I didn't understand, and I expect you to explain, if it's not a mistake, then it's really amazing -- a legal person can perform art if he meets the following conditions. It is not disputed that a legal person can perform an artificial act. You say, among other things, the condition is that there are employees in that legal person who are registered in the Register of Arts. This doesn't have to. This is ridiculous. This is unnecessary. They're going to hire a court, say, a construction college to be a warlock in some court case. According to this, as you've written, must all the professors of the construction college be enrolled in the Register of Arts? They don't have to. There has to be a construction college, and it has to be proven, to provide evidence, and, of course, it's undeniable, that at the construction college, professors, doctors from a particular area, are from a construction profession. It's completely unnecessary and not only unnecessary, but it'll create a mix-up. If I were a party in the process, if we were, say, a traffic college expert in some class, I'd try to find a professor or an employee, someone from the security department who wasn't enrolled in the Register of Arts, and I'd shoot down on the basis of your opinion as an expert. The process of appointment and discharge, I have already asked you, therefore, that there is a need for experts for certain areas of art, representatives of first-degree courts are delivering to the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. This is really going to be a problem, Mrs. Malovic, because we don't know, I don't know if you know how much of the court will be looking for and on what basis the experts, what professions. That's where you owe the answer. This law owes an answer to that question. The Ministry shall run the Register of Experts, which shall be referred to in Article 16. This is where they heard different opinions about whether they needed that register, whether they shouldn't. Of course, there's supposed to be, and now there's a list of witches, it's published in the Official Messenger. Now we're technically up-to-date, and then next to the official messenger, I wasn't looking, but I guess there's a list of court martial arts on the Internet. If it doesn't exist, it's supposed to be next to this one at the official messenger. But does it have to be a special register? What we have now is also a register. What is published in the "Official Messenger" is written – court experts for the area here and there, published in the "Official Messenger" and thus, the names listed, it is a register. It didn't have to be the law for that. But in any case, we need to settle that we absolutely don't argue. It needs to be arranged, it needs to be known who the warlocks are and how the court chooses them, how they determine them, but unfortunately this law doesn't regulate them. We'll have chaos again, we'll have abuses again, we'll have corruption again. You haven't found a good solution to regulate it in this law. This is indeed, Mrs Malovic, interestingly, article 18 says – the court, i.e. the body that conducts the procedure, also monitors the work of the experts and informs the Ministry about its objections and fines. How can a court sentence an expert? Where does that say? Well, for contempt of the court, it can be if the court's expert swears in court, so the court can punish him on the spot for being rude in court. So that's not well solved, actually, it's not solved at all. It's not! It's not in the law, Mrs. Malovic. The expert will be cleared, among other things, if it is found that they did not exist, or that the conditions on which he was appointed have ceased. This law does not say anything – who will be responsible if it happens that there are no conditions for someone to be appointed an expert. The law, if there's no punishment, doesn't mean anything. If there's no penalty threatened, if someone doesn't do something, it doesn't mean anything. You have now re-elected the judges, same in the law on which you did so, there has been no responsibility for you and the High Council of the judiciary what can happen to you in the criminal justice area or in the labour force if you do not do this job well. You've done a bad job, and today the consequences are felt, and no one is eaten by a donkey wolf. That's right here. So, he says, if it is determined that there are no conditions that anyone has conditions for an expert, he will be removed from the list of artists. And whoever has chosen him and who has let him perform warlocks, perhaps a year later, it is determined that he does not meet the conditions, in the meantime, who knows how many judicial proceedings will be completed by means of his skill and none – neither is he responsible nor are you responsible for choosing him. When will the artist, among other things, be relieved if he performs the art unsuspectingly, if he unjustly refuses to answer the court's calls, if the expert performs the art, if it gives incomplete, vague, contradictory or incorrect findings? Nowhere, Mrs. Malovic, there is nothing to be done if it is determined that the abuse occurred, that he was an expert, or that he did the benefit find, out of kindness, that he abused the position, that he was dealing with a lawyer, in other words, that he committed a crime. You'll probably be able to explain that you're referring to the Criminal Code. We Serbian radicals stand up and we keep saying that about codifying criminal legislation, we've been pushing for years, but you're not listening to us. You don't listen to us, and that's why you don't have properly codified criminal acts in the Criminal Code, and you don't have them in these laws where, in fact, there shouldn't be any criminal acts. But they're failures to complete the entire area of the entire system. The problem is, you don't want to be distracted by something that's completely justified. You don't accept that you were wrong, and yes, we all are, so so are you, of course. Article 25. – a legal person performs an artificial or unequivocal skill when the experts employed in that legal person are disorderly or unprofessionally performing the art, within the meaning of Articles 19(2) and (3) of this Act. This is also completely unnecessary, I was already explaining when I was talking about a legal face. The most interesting are members of 27 and 28. They're in Chapter V talking about the rights and obligations of an expert. Article 27 says: "The news is required to observe the deadlines set by the court's decision and to carry out art in a safe and impartial manner. ''Article 28 says, ''The news is obliged to keep the secrecy of the information he learned by performing the art of craftsmanship. ''A million-dollar question – what will happen, Mrs. Malovic, to an expert who behaves the opposite way. 27th and 28th? Nothing! You said what was the duty of an expert, and you didn't prescribe anywhere what would happen if the expert didn't behave according to what was in the law to be, in art. 27th and 28, expert duty. So, I spent a lot of time with my dear colleagues who will continue where I left off, but in one sentence – withdraw the bill, believe me, a worse proposal, a more empty, incomplete one, I have already said, in my decades-old legal practice I have not seen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41416	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41417	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was thinking about talking about this law on judicial warlocks, I thought of a statement from a famous Belgrade lawyer. He says and believes -- that Serbian citizens have never been in an unspeakable situation when it comes to legal certainty in the authorities of the executive authority and the judiciary, and experts are only part of this mile. So in the discussions we heard from colleagues what's going on in this area of art. When this law appeared and the secretary of state, visiting on state television, spoke about some newspapers, I expected to see a full law, a law that would fully regulate this area. What is it that this law makes and what's wrong? What is this newspaper compared to the 1987 law? It's certainly the Registrar and it's okay. It has to exist. Some order has to be introduced. The seal certainly – yes. It's been there before, I think. However, a provision for the appointment of the most professional is disputed. This opens the first question – how? How? What is this institution that will determine which are the most professional witches? And what are the shortcomings, and seriously, when it comes to this law on judicial warlocks? The first question that opens up – has anyone ever audited existing artists? It's not. And why not? Some people get circumstances that they can't do the job anymore or they don't want to do it. Why is there no oath of a court expert in law? I have here a very serious law, translated into the law of an EU member, where such a provision exists. I'll deliver it to you and you'll see how the serious state regulates, in a serious way, this matter. What's next? Why isn't there any court-law training? Why doesn't the law provide for consultants and auxiliary staff for this expert? Why doesn't the law provide for supervision of the work of judicial experts? In the end, why isn't there an expert association of court-laws, chambers? Those are some questions and some principled objections. Now I'm going to base myself, since I've been a court-medical expert for years, in that kind of area. But in order to give you a plastic picture of the situation in the area of judicial-medical skill, I'll give you a personal example, Madam Minister. There are two types of relationships. A relationship between an expert and a court, in which the court accepts or does not accept the opinion of an expert. Madam Minister, this is about the Third Belgrade Court. Some time ago, a narrow member of my family was killed in a car accident like a sidewalk pedestrian, a fenced sidewalk, receiving, in doing so, life - threatening injuries. Life threatening was 20 days. Six months of immovableity and treatment at the Banjica orthopedics Institute. The epilogue, despite the findings of the expert, the court-medical, and the traffic expert, is a court ruling a year – conditional. We're talking about these things, and this is exactly the law that needed to improve these things, but obviously, the way you've conceived it and brought these improvements won't be. When it comes to judicial-medical skill, I must say it's one sensitive area. We cannot regulate it properly if we do not respect European standards. What's wrong with us? What's missing at the beginning of this story? There's one key law missing. There's no law missing on patients' rights. I spoke several times in this assembly about this law. The health department doesn't care. It refers to the Health Protection Act, which, truth be told, has several members in the area that should regulate patients' rights. And what do we have in real life? We've got someone who's a surrogate, who's a real patient protector. This is one person who is employed in a health institution, a health care facility, a hospital, an institution, a clinic, and the question arises – is he who is employed in that institution going to defend the rights of a patient or the rights of an institution? That's where it starts. Another problem that arises in judicial and medical skills is that there is no subject – medical law at any of our universities, medical, dental, pharmaceutical. Doctors who should be dealing with these things don't have enough knowledge to engage and to look at all the legal aspects of judicial-medical skills. I know it exists in law school, too, there is a Association of Medical Rights that knows how many times, back, ten years, has appealed for this sort of thing, to put order into art, not to get into a situation like Mr. Chikiriz's in the King's, so we have such judicial and medical skills. So, all in all, Madam Minister, I do not dispute your intention to impose order, but when such a law is passed, it does not begin by building a roof, but by building a foundation. Basic laws that need to support such a law on judicial warlocks do not exist or are completely pointless. Without the real beginning and the real introduction of order, as well as the passing of new laws, which will prepare a law like this, this law will not have the purpose for which it has been presented to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41418	Ambassador Sreto Peric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the SRS does not support reforms, but advocates and insists on implementing reforms, and we have been working on it for over 10 years on a continuous basis. We don't want to cross over those ten years before 2000 and say that a negative selection in the justice system is already running. A certain number of colleagues did say that this was not political law, that it was purely professional, or legal. I couldn't agree more. By definition, that's how it is. However, dear colleagues, this bill is full of politics and it is my intention to show you in my presentation that this is the case. You'll see that this looks more like some sublegal act, Rules of Procedure than the bill itself. Madam Minister, you're a lady, and I'm trying to be a gentleman, and I have to point out this, because I want to step up with you and convince you that you haven't given the bill of judicial experts enough and professionally. This is where you regularly attend when you are authorized representative on behalf of the government. I remember in 2008, December 28th and 29th when you were here, we appreciate that. I don't want to challenge your professional capacity, but what was given as a bill, I have absolutely the right to say, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the judges, on behalf of the honorary experts, that it was high time you got involved in your business. This is absolutely empty. We'll go according to certain provisions and show that's the case. My colleague, Chiquiriz, has said one condition when it comes to witches, and I really don't think of saying it's a rule. He's made an effort to find extraordinary cases, which point to that. That's the kind of behavior we have in all our professions. But after so many of his dilemmas, I believe that your parliamentary group, or part of the parliamentary group you belong to, should not, because someone will ask you tomorrow, you said one thing, you voted for a whole other, you shouldn't trust that of this law. Article 8 says, "The physical person can perform the art on condition that it is entered in the Register of the Witches. There's no need for that. The MP may participate in the debate on the principle of certain legal proposals if he has come to the National Assembly. That's understood. It's the only way he can do it if he's here. And Article 13. The draft law on judicial warlocks says: "A decision on the appointment of an expert is made by a minister. The solution of Article 1 of this Article is the basis for enrolment in the Register of Experts. '"This is completely unnecessary and shouldn't stand here. But that's a minor problem. Now let's determine some things, so we could do it several times, in three or four members, say that we can only act on that face that's listed in the witch register. As for Article 15, here I'm going to show you that this has the character of a sublegal act, or perhaps a Rules of Procedure on the work of a court expert, where it's said, "The news has a stamp of a rectangular shape of 4.5 h 2.5 cm, which contains the name and last name of an expert," etc. This should not have entered the matter of the bill, and many other things we expected to find in the bill, there are no, not at all. No quality. There's no indication of the quality of people who are supposed to become warlocks or who already are. We at the SRS disagree when it comes to any licenses to perform certain activities. We mean that when you're in school, you're in training, you're getting certain knowledge, certain skills from your profession, and we can become an expert or something else, or we can't become. Here, now a great headache will occur in Serbia when passing the admission exams and a number of other things, which is completely unnecessary. But you, in politics, pushing her where she doesn't belong, trying to do something like that, instead of letting all those who want to go to school in certain universities, certain directions or schools, write it down, have one criterion that could be objectively determined, which is why someone qualified to move on or simply to write off from those schools or colleges. It's a similar situation with court experts. We don't know how and in what way, when you decide on judicial warlocks, based on what arguments and what quality? I don't want to doubt at all that you don't have the best intention of hiring the very best known, that you give them the green light so that they can deal with as court experts, but on what basis can you conclude who would be a good expert tomorrow? Article 16 states: "The Ministry runs the Register of Experts. ''In the Register of Artists, the following data are entered: the regular number of entries, the name and name of one parent, the name of the artist, his residence, address and telephone number. This would be no problem now if it were in some sublegal act, because there should be communication between the court and the court, that it can hire it is necessary to have a contact phone, but it cannot and should not be the reason for the disengagement of the court's position – if it has not been notified in good time. He may have had one fixed phone or cell phone, so he changed it, so he didn't immediately inform him, it's said in Article 17, and no later than eight days, and that's the reason for the termination of his office as a court expert. We have a situation where MPs ask governments and ministers questions and we never get an answer, we don't get an answer within a month and no one has any consequences for it. But we also have situations where individual court disputes are being conducted for more than 20 years, and this is probably what my colleague Petar Jojic will tell you from his long-standing and rich legal practice, and there is no problem here, and there is one banal thing that appears and that is one reason for stopping the office of a court expert. On the basis of all this, it is concluded that your approach to the Proposal of the Law on Judicial Experts was superficial and did not show any willingness to continue reforming the judicial system. Certain colleagues have spoken, and that seems to me to be a superficial approach, that we have been stalled by the Law on Judicial Experts of 23 years of age. Absolutely not. When this bill is adopted or adopted, and if counterpart Chikiriz votes for this law, it will be put out of force, I was joking a little bit, but the government sent this proposal to parliament on 28 May 2010, and arrived in the Assembly on 31 May. It's June 10th, so we're late and it's been delayed for about ten days, it's not a 23-year delay. Whoever, preparing for this debate, was reading the bill and still reading the applicable law, will see, I accept the view of all those who said there were some anachronic definitions, yet some social institutions that were established by the Law of Associated Labour were defined, but that was 1989 and 1990, to change only in that part, otherwise, the process and what is the essence of this law – it is certain that some solutions are better in the applicable Law than in the proposal of this law. The appointment of an expert will take place within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. Why a year? Someone with this deadline was happy or not, I think it could be done a lot sooner. The minister is said to issue an ad on the appointment of judicial skills within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. I believe, and I know that you have already recorded the situation, perhaps not you, Madam Minister, how much of an expert is missing, who are worthy to perform that function and who are not, therefore, you have a perfectly clear situation regarding what is to happen, but simply, the need to find those you were talking about. I'm expressing my suspicion that there may not be any dominant now, those witches that you've instructed as individual cases, which were likely in all courts, but they may now play a dominant role in art, which in no way is not and should not be good. There was plenty of time to look at the Institute of Arts, and my colleague, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, spoke of the witches who appeared in The Hague tribunal and how they were demystified, in which way their role was unthinked. In order for this to happen to us, in order not to have the tribunalisation of the judicial system in Serbia, you had to take care of it, and you had to put in this bill provisions that would absolutely exclude any suspicion or possibility of abuse, not yours, of course, but abuses and firm integration, on the one hand, by judges, lawyers and judicial experts. I certainly belong to a number of MPs who support the need for both experts, if it is done by judges, prosecutors, to take an oath, because we had it in force too. However, it is said to be a solemn statement. Why is that out now? I don't know how much of this oath would fix morale, fix the human quality of these skills? It does not mean anything in professional terms, but we expect that at least to some extent it would have a positive impact. What a reform of the judiciary we could see from the fact that both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors did not do a good job in the appointment of judges and prosecutors. That we sincerely advocate judicial reform also points to the fact, not that it was the European Commission, not the Venice Commission, that during the debate and the basic laws in the field of justice and in the election and appointment of the holders of judicial functions, we have indicated that what you are doing is not good. Certainly, we have no idea to challenge the choice of all judges. There will always be judges and prosecutors, no matter what legal procedure and the basis for selecting the holders of judicial functions, as will judicial experts, who will do in a moral and worthy way. No matter how much we try to defile some values and make such laws that don't generally provide what our wish is, they'll try to do it in a good way as a man of moral quality, out of dignity. The fact that the Constitutional Court has made a decision as it is, on us, on the members of the SRS, is that it respects not the Constitutional Court's decision, but that it respects the decisions of all courts. This reminds me a little of when someone who enrolled in medical school and went to school and passed exams under the medical school program, and when they finished telling him – you will now be a graduate engineer of engineering. It also reminds the Constitutional Court's decision on the mandates of the committees, was made and done in accordance with some current and legal regulations and some moral principles and in line with the attempt to develop multilateral democracy, and suddenly we have another situation. It simply seems to me that you think that you will best preserve your functions if you cloud the bar until the end, and then no one alive will be able to cope and that the time flow will ensure you and the end of the term. Once again, Madam Minister, a great complaint to you that you have not interfered in your business to offer before this House a more quality law, this is not just the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, it was argued by those who have seriously carried out the analysis of this bill, and otherwise support the government of which you are a member, all that is not good in this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41420	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41421	Madam President, Madam Ministers, colleagues have very well pointed out the major problem of the area of expertise, which also affects the functioning and integrity of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of drawing up a law like this, I personally consider it necessary to do a comparative legal analysis and to see how it was regulated in other countries. As far as judicial skills are concerned in Serbia, there is a major mess in the area. I had the opportunity to see for myself when I was in the Republic Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Justice, and I had the opportunity and personally in my profession, as a lawyer for 30 years, to make sure that there were huge problems and irregularities in the matter of witches and their findings, and when it comes to the rights that citizens are asking for before the court. My colleague Chikiriz and counterpart Peric pointed to specific things, as well as my colleagues who had previously spoken, as well as our doctor who is here and representative, and otherwise is an expert. Experts have turned many Serbian citizens black. Many have lost their rights, many have lost their property, many have contributed to some litigation and have been brought before courts in Serbia for 30 years. What I particularly want to point out is, therefore, the time period of the trial and the tariffs which the witches apply and which the court assigns to them during the art, which is paid by the litigation parties. I've had the opportunity to make sure that in countless cases, the experts refused to perform the arts while the citizen, the party in the process, did not deposit the court's money in order for the expert to accept the case. It's a matter of expert expertise. The question arises when it comes to the choice of a witch. The proposal for this law provides for who can be an expert, and even in Article 6, it is predicted that an artist can be appointed and elected and enrolled in the Register and a person who has a high school. I understand that, and I would even go one step further when it comes to it. When it comes to the choice of an expert, and you know in which direction, and with a primary school in the field of agriculture, a farmer can be a farmer when he's a wheat class. A philatellist doesn't have to have a college, but with his modest education he can be an excellent artist, because he has a skill and he knows the opportunities and knows that he provides the court with professional skill and finds when it comes to philatellium, but he has another problem when choosing an expert and solving an expert. You're in Articles 9, 8 and 7 and you're talking about what criteria one person must meet in order to be an expert. The decision is made by the minister. You're talking about a person who can't be chosen as an expert if he's being prosecuted for the duration of the procedure. In particular, Madam Minister, would you like to enlist in the Register an expert person who was previously convicted of criminal acts of giving false testimony to a court of law? You didn't see that coming. You predict he'll be cleared in case he's being prosecuted, but after that, when he's elected. However, if you do not pass through criminal records and court records, he cannot be elected, because you will make a mistake and a failure that you can choose for an artificial person who is a criminal, because you have no evidence from the criminal record whether he is convicted or not. This is a major failure for you, and it had to be incorporated into the law as one of the criteria – whether it was convicted of giving false testimony, it is unworthy of performing the function of a witch. When it comes to certain experts, I'll tell you from my practice next. You have an expert ballistics expert, on his findings, and the court's decision is based on his opinion, only if he said that the defendant was at a distance from that and that, he was in that position, and he had that weapon, he fired from the position of both of them, and that attitude and the judges based the decision. It's for nothing that others suggest she be a second expert or an expert. Secondly, Madam Minister, check, in Zrenjanin, the trial is for the directors of Agroziv from Panchev. Please examine this case. I ask you a question, and I believe that you will be interested, because it is about the art of which the court is to make a decision – is it in the case of the Agrosiv Institute or the New Sad Institute of Arts, which is simultaneously damaged in this case? Please examine it, you will see that it is against the law, that it is a gross mistake, that it is illegal, that there are significant injuries by the court responsible for the proceedings. Then, Madam Minister, you didn't foresee second-degreeness in this procedure. When you resolve the artist by your decision, by his solution, he has the right to initiate an administrative dispute and end there, there is no two-stage procedure. It's the next leak. Next, it's been a mess and a ride. I can't say, at any rate, that all the experts are corrupt and that criminals, no, but individuals are, that's what the practice has shown, there are judgments for that. Traffic mob: there's been a car accident, two vehicles crash into which there were five passengers. In the expert's report, all 10 people who were in the vehicles have neck stretches. What does that tell you? The court holds a verdict. The traffic mafia that was tried and convicted in Novi Sad, the experts have artificially artificially non-existent cases of car accidents. These activities and the crime were involved: police officers, lawyers and involved individuals who participated with them as prosecutors and as persons who allegedly had no right to compensation for damages, so they provided for institutions, and how they paid huge damages. Madam President is a very professional specialist. Here, let me just mention it. In my practice, I've had the following cases: it's a car accident where it's a mild physical injury. For this easy physical injury one expert says - reduced life activity 10%, and the other says - reduced life activity 30%. He suffered a fear of intense intensity over a long period of time. Can you do that? He can't. It could be accepted that there were physical injuries with severe consequences, such as severe physical injuries. You remember that case in Smederev when doctors artificiald and gave false findings, and it was a big affair, that many gained disability and pensions with false findings and opinions from those doctors. Therefore, Madam Minister, I personally believe that it is necessary to establish a 'permanently independent expert body' as an institution that would have the following competences. Number one – receiving skills with an assessment of their competence, experience and expertise. The body should have a large number of permanent co-workers, university members, scientific institutes and other professional institutions and a permanent representative of the lawyer proposed by the Serbian Bar Association. This body would exercise constant control over the work of judicial experts and would have the right to delete such an expert from the list of judicial experts by means of an act in the event of an irregularity or gross injury. In order for this body to perform its function in a smooth manner, it is necessary to establish clear and precise criteria for selecting the skills: to adopt a Rules of Procedure on the work of this body, and that the decision of this body has the importance of an administrative act and two-stage consideration should be given to the administrative procedure. It would be necessary to bring a code of professional ethics to court, as a violation of the code would simultaneously withdraw an appropriate disciplinary measure, and in the most difficult cases and delete from the registers from the court's list of skills. Specific legal solutions should establish the obligation of courts, from the basic to the Supreme Court of Cassation, to inform the body of the identified deficiencies and irregularities in the work of the court. The same obligation would apply in the first place to legal chambers, defences, prosecutors, other legal entities, including natural persons. But the Department of Justice here must have the right and have the obligation to control, because the question is asked, the colleagues have very well explained and the instructions of the examples, I've had the opportunity to make sure, I haven't been able to fight for years, I've shown the presidents of the courts, I've shown the judges that the same lawyers in the cases are proposing the same artists, and this artist has acquired a monopoly, it's business for him. A large number of judges respect the offer of a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41422	Mr. Jojic, it's 6:00, we're gonna have to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41423	Can I just have two or three more sentences?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41424	Say one more sentence, but we're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41425	One of these same lawyers is proposing the same artists, the court accepts them, but often the same experts don't come out of the law offices. That's why I think I'll discuss it if you allow tomorrow, if there's any time left...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-10-0.u41426	There's 12 minutes left for your MP's group. You and Mrs. Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic will be, so tomorrow we will end up with MPs according to the order declared for the word. Please continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are working conditions in the Hall of 87 MPs. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Dejan Radenkovic, Đuro Peric, Mladen Grujic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Milutin Jelic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Ms. Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, I have also called for the session to be attended by Zlatko Petrovic, the head of justice. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Judicial Experts (continuing the principle of discussion) The Word has a People's MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
