ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38200	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the motions of four laws. It's about three additions to the law and one is a new law, it's a law on metrology. First, I would like to explain the reasons for amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act. As you know, last year the Serbian Parliament passed this law. What are the basic reasons for amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act? The whole law's idea was to help citizens living in local self-government to be closer to EU pre-accession funds, as the basis of the law was to form statistical regions in Serbia, which would be institutionally capable of withdrawing funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget for equal regional development, and on the other hand to form institutions that would be compatible with EU institutions and to enable pre-accession funds for regional development to be withdrawn, which make up one of the most important components of EU pre-accession funds in general. However, we had in law seven statistical regions. We have seen that they are unequal in terms of population numbers, because the essentially Vojvodina has two million inhabitants, Belgrade has a million and six thousand inhabitants, KiM million five hundred and eighty thousand. The regions formed in central Serbia were not uniform in terms of population. That is why we have now proposed that five statistical regions be formed instead of seven, but approximately the same force in each respect, including the number of inhabitants, in order to be comparable. We propose that only two regions are formed in central Serbia, both in the region of eastern and southern Serbia, and in the region of Šumadija and in western Serbia. In the region of eastern and southern Serbia today lives, i.e. on the last census of millions and seven hundred thousand people, which is approximately equivalent to the number of residents living in Belgrade. In one Belgrade, on a much smaller surface, lives the same population as in all eastern and southern Serbia, which is far greater, but only talks about the problems in which our country is located, since all these years there has been emptying our territories, because outside of Belgrade it is much harder to find work, that wages are much less, that unemployment is much higher, and this has led to young people leaving their cities where they were born, leaving Belgrade, leaving the poorer provinces of Vojvodina leaving Novi Sad. This is also the practical reason why we are doing this law and why we are building instruments that should encourage more equal regional development, to keep the population alive and that in some future, it was 10, 20, 30, 50 years, Serbia would not lose its territory again. If there are no inhabitants in any territory, the country has no sovereignty over that territory, sooner or later. In this sense, it is important to establish decentralisation. At this stage, we are talking about statistical regions, but I am convinced that the ultimate solution best for Serbia will be to do the practical political regionalisation, which does not have to be the same as this statistical one, because it is necessary for political regionalisation to open a broad public debate, which cannot last for a short time, which must include not only politicians, but also people from the profession, citizens and therefore come to the best solutions. In any case, the region of eastern and southern Serbia today settles about a million and 700,000 people, while the Shumadian region, and western Serbia, settles 2 million 80,000 inhabitants. In this way, all of these regions, roughly, have between a million and 600,000 and two million inhabitants and are thus approximately equal. Unfortunately, they are not equal in their development and will be a task, not only of these governments, but of all future governments, to reduce differences in the degree of development. That is the basic reason why we have approached amendments and additions to the Law. As we have already approached the amendments and amendments to the law, for this basic reason, we have also decided to accept some of the remarks we heard in the public debate, including the debate in parliament during the adoption of the law. I came to the conclusion myself during that debate, but it was too late to intervene, that it was possible that the first version of the law had introduced too many bureaucratic institutions and too much administration into the whole system. The previous law envisioned that, apart from national regional development agency and district agencies, there are also special new agencies at regional level. This law now abolishes it. There is no need to form some intermediation agencies between the central, national and those already present in the regions, but it is necessary that existing district agencies, called in the practice of regional development agencies such as Raris in Zajecar, such as the regional development agency in Kragujevac, such as the regional development agency in Pozarevec, Braničevski district, such as Vranja, in Leskovac, Novi Pazar, Užic, Kraljev. These are mostly cities where they exist, in central Serbia regional agencies. In Vojvodina there are those in Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Subotics and Sombor. These regional agencies, which are essentially at the level of the area, should become the only agencies that are defined by law by national law. There are no medium-level agencies, so as not to increase the administration and to achieve direct communication between the centre and local self-government. When we talk about decentralisation, the experiences of different countries in Europe are of course different. There are three types of countries in the EU today. There are Federations. These are countries that have three levels of government -- federal units, regions and local self-government. These are countries like Austria, Germany. There are also regionalised countries, and I think it's a model for Serbia to pursue in some future. These are countries that essentially have central authority, but also have a middle level of government at regional level, and then a large local self-government at the level of municipalities of cities. I think that's the best model. Such a model today works in Italy, Spain, and in the largest, I would say, the number of European countries. There are, of course, unitary states as a third model that is certainly not good and these countries are rare today. The point of decentralisation is to transfer as many economic, political powers as possible to local self-government and then to the region. In the first place are the powers of local self-government, but also the obligations. The problems that arise in the process of decentralisation in practice are if a country, which was the case in some countries of Eastern Europe, transfers obligations, but does not transfer powers. It's, for example, a case in Hungary. It conveys obligations to municipalities, but it does not give fiscal sources that they can meet those obligations and then only have problems achieving it. It is very important in the next period to determine which fiscal instruments will fund new powers that need to be given to local self-government and, of course, it implies returning property to local self-government, because there is no fundamental decentralisation without it. Of course there are arguments that some things should be centralized. However, these arguments do not essentially drink water, because no administration at the place was, it can be effective, and unfortunately, it can be poor and inefficient. Whatever the case, it is certain that citizens living in a municipality have far greater motive to solve some of their local problems than anyone in any administration in Belgrade does. In this respect, the transfer of property from the Republic Directorate to local self-government will certainly give greater rights, but also greater responsibility to local self-government. This will certainly speed up the process of putting into operation this property. I have to say, in practice, some local self-governments have shown themselves capable of using such powers. They need to give that authority to everyone. I will give you an example - expropriation, for example, for the construction of the national corridor 10 in Serbia takes years, regardless of what the central authorities are doing, while the expropriation of land in the Koroman field in Kragujevac lasts only a few months, and is essentially carried out by local city authorities. Or, solving the bankruptcy problem in Leskovac "Inkol" lasts only a few months, and local authorities do not implement it for the needs of a future investor of the German company Falke, which is due to build a new stocking factory in Leskovac, which is due to start working in May. Local self-government must have more interest and more motive to put some property into operation. That's why the property needs to be returned to local self-government. As for the other amendments that this law adopts, all units of local self-government remain to be classified into four groups, as the previous law predicted, but the concept of devastated areas is also introduced. These are local self-governments whose rate of development is below 50% of the republican average. Unfortunately, there are now as many as 40 municipalities in Serbia below 50% of the republican average in terms of level of development. That is why the government has formed a special fund to encourage employment in such areas. We have allocated 100m euros for the first purpose of the fund and the first loans are approved this week. It will be a loan approved by Simpa, to start production, to build a new lesonite factory in Kursumlia in ŠIK-Kopalnik, since Simpo has taken over the factory. However, it is only the first project. In all these 40 municipalities there are many unemployed, there are no jobs and the idea is that in the devasted areas loans are granted to investors without a classic banking guarantee, but with a hand-to-hand supply of the equipment purchased from the loan, and a period significantly longer than the previous repayment periods for the usual loans. The payment period is eight years, with three years starting periods, with interest of 2% a year. In order to have that instrument in place, we have to have defined by the appropriate statistical criteria, which all falls within the devastated municipalities, or who all has a level of development below 50% of the republican average. Also, as I said, unlike the previous law, no agencies will be formed at regional level. There won't be a duchess agency. There will be no agency one for southern and eastern Serbia. There will be no one agency for Shumadi and Western Serbia, but rather the law predicts how much the least agencies in these regions must form. At least three agencies must be accredited by the National Regional Development Agency in the Vojvodina region. At least, in Srem, Banat and Backo one at a time. Also, there is no need for more than one agency in Belgrade, given the area Belgrade is affecting. In the region of Šumadija and western Serbia four, due to the size of the territory. Today, at this very moment, as I have already said, we have an agency that is very active in Kragujevac, in the King, in Uzic, in Novi Pazar. These are the agencies that are working today and will essentially encourage regional development through these districtal, regional development agencies, so that they will be the main bearer of balanced regional development, and the role of national agencies will be to accredit them and help them in the first phase, where needed in training, although many of them already have a very good fit, given that most of them and formed by EU and other countries donors. So essentially these agencies will cover the natural territory sought by entrepreneurs in the area, not by politicians. I'll give you an example. It is certain that the regional development agency in Užica will cover not only the territory of Užica, Požega, Arija, but also neighbouring municipalities in Sandzak, such as Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, as regional agency in Novi Pazar will, on the other hand, cover Tutin, Sjenica and Novi Pazar, where competition will be possible, and if businessmen in some region, entrepreneurs, seek services from another city's agencies, they will be able to choose freely. So we don't want to upset it, we want to make it possible for the agencies to compete. If, for example, entrepreneurs in Medvedja prefer to work with the agency in Leskovac, because it is more efficient and allows them EU funds, and they do not want to work with the agency in Vranja, no one will forbid them. So developmentists will be specific regional development agencies and there is no need for us to have special independent agencies within the region. But at the level of the region, we will have development councils to formulate priorities in regional development of the region, with representatives from different municipalities belonging to one region sitting on these regional councils and having to be proportionately territorially represented in order to reflect the interests of all those within the region. I know that the matter of this law is very suitable for bickering and that Serbian citizens are prone to disputes, but the idea of the legislator is not to deepen disputes, but to enable those concerned, these are citizens, above all, to have faster and better services, whether in the area of infrastructure building, whether in the area of employment, or in the development of entrepreneurship, because this is the main role of agencies that already exist. So the important difference between the previous law is that no new agencies will be set up, no new administration will be hired, but existing agencies will be accredited to continue and expand the field of action they already have. It's an essential paper in the Regional Development Act. The other two laws are interlinked, the first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to free action and the financial compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Let's remind ourselves why a law on citizens' rights to free action was passed in December in the first place. Because it is an obligation from the Serbian Constitution that all citizens have the right to equality, which is guaranteed by Article 21(3). The Constitution. Since the Privatisation Act allowed a number of citizens, whose companies were subject to privatisation, to get in this privatisation process that lasted from the 1990s until today's free action, and that some other citizens were not, and that most citizens, had no opportunity to get any action, then it was an obligation to pass such a law and it was brought in December 2007, in circumstances which, in fact, you have to agree, were completely different from those in which we live today, given that it was a period of rise, both in our economy and in general in the world economy. Given that laws must, if they want to be pragmatic, adapt to reality, or practice, we have decided to make changes and amendments to the law and to keep some basic things, but to change some. The fundamental change from the previous law is that citizens will get free action even before the privatisation process. The previous law provided the opportunity to get the shares only six months after the privatisation process ended. Given that the circumstances have changed, that objectively because of the global economic crisis, the privatisation process has slowed down, we have decided that essentially the citizens of the action were split immediately, i.e. within the deadlines provided for by this law, that is, not to wait for the privatisation process, but rather for the process to be done. Up to now, a total of 4,814.130 citizens have applied for free action. Also, the right to free action has been acquired by 150,326,000 employees and former employees in the largest public, or state-owned enterprises. So far, free action has been shared with citizens for NIS. Also, 23,200 NIS employees received free NIS actions. In view of the fact that the subject-matter was free to share the shares of large state-owned companies, such as EPS, Telekom, NIS, Aerodrom, as well as some other companies privatised during the previous tendering period and, if you remember, the Privatisation Act made a commitment to split 15% of each privatisation to the workers and 15% to be placed in the so-called “Privatisation Act”. The Privatization Register, where they waited a moment to distribute to the citizens. The previous law found that these actions, which have been in place since 2000 in the Privatization Register, were distributed to citizens in the form of money, because it was an obligation by the Privatisation Agency to sell those shares. Indeed, after December 2007, when the Law was passed in the Assembly, the Agency began to sell shares from the Privatization Register, it managed to sell shares to Holci, Lafarza, cements in Koserić, Henkel, Zorke Farm from Šapac, Belgrade Bakery Industry, DDOR from Novi Sad, Šumadi drug and Hebe from Bujanovac. However, all these sales were made in the first half of 2008. These sales produced 7,337,825,907 dinars. Afterwards, after mid-2008, the global economic crisis started and none of the companies left to buy these actions that were in the Privatization Register, such as Philip Morris, or the Duvan industry Nis or Bat, or the Vranje, Lukoil, the Valjanica copper Sevojno, Rubin, the Novo Becej Pollet, Jelen Do, Danubius, were able to buy those actions, since all companies in the world and let alone in Serbia faced the effects of the financial crisis. In that sense, one good part of the Privatization Register action has not yet been cashed, and it is not divided into citizens. What has been sold so far has been distributed to citizens at the beginning of this year, which is the 7337,000 dinars, which is why all citizens have received 1,700 dinars in the name of those shares that have been sold by then. Also, the state currently has another institution involved in the sale of shares. It is the Action Fund, which was formed when the Privatisation Agency and which has minority packages of state actions in enterprises, plus actions that return to the Action Fund if privatisation contracts break down. The action fund has existed today as an institution for eight years, as an institution that sells on behalf of the government a minority stake in the state, primarily on the stock market, although it is possible to do so by law and tender means. We have decided that the actions that have not been sold from this privatisation register so far, these are the actions of companies privatised since 2000, as I said to the Duvanska Industry Nis, Vranje, Lukoil and others, we combine them with the actions of the Action Fund so far, and to unite these two things into a new one, and that is, as we have called it in law, the stock fund, which will broadcast free shares to citizens. In fact, it will be sublime actions by all these companies in which the state has participation, which belong to companies relatively less than these large ones such as Telekom and EPS, so that, in addition to NIS actions, citizens will receive free shares of Telekom, EPS and Belgrade Airport, plus a united action of the stock fund, which is created by the merger of the Action Fund portfolio and the Privatization Register. I know it may sound complicated, but I'll tell you what it's about and how many packages of action it's about. As for the actions currently owned by the Action Fund, there are 1,500 packages of shares, nominal values of around 23 billion dinars, while the remaining shares in the privatisation register have 75 packages, so all of this will be a united action of the newly formed stock fund. This fund won't hire new people. He'll have as an organ management something like a board of directors. We called it the trust's advice, which will have four members. It will essentially be managed by the Privatisation Agency. This law also carries out the rationalization of the state administration. The current Action Fund is being abolished. Employees shall be transferred to the Privatisation Agency and instead of selling state stock on the stock market or by tendering or auctioning method, only one, i.e. the Privatisation Agency, will do so. The stock fund will be the mass of these actions, but no employees. This fund will essentially be managed by a council appointed by the government. He'll have four members. Technical implementation and sale of these stock exchanges will be carried out by the Privatisation Agency. The privatisation agency will also broadcast these free actions of the stock fund to citizens and citizens will be able to trade them independently on the stock market or wait for the conditions for the Agency to pay them cash, as was the case at the beginning of this year when what has been sold so far has been paid. So the Privatisation Agency will eventually sell the shares. When the appropriate amount of funds is acquired, they will offer the money to the citizens, but the citizens will have the right to try to sell their united actions before that. The united actions will be divided into multiple packages, so that people can sell a piece by piece or if anyone wants they can sell everything at once. In the stock fund, except for the actions of the current Action Fund, or should I say what is the difference, unless there are changes to the laws of this action which are managed by the Action Fund today, sales revenues would go to the budget, unlike this law, revenues do not go to the budget but go to the citizens. That's the difference because that money is directly made available to citizens through free action. The value of this package will be shown by the market, given that the nominal value of these actions is currently 27 billion dinars. Only in the market will you see how much investors will be willing to pay for it. Of course it all depends on the moment of the stock trade. The law stipulates that the newly formed action fund is to be subsequently and indirectly involved in the actions of those companies that will later be privatised by the tender method, as well as part of the capital of public utility companies, which will be privatised if local self-government, or government, decides on a case-to-case basis. In other words, since there is currently no strategy, until the end discussed and adopted on the privatisation of public utility companies, this law foresees that if there is and if there is a privatisation of concrete public utility companies, then 15% of public utility actions, which are subject to privatisation, if decided, enters the stock fund and is subject to free share of action. In that case 15% of shares would belong to employees in these public utility companies that were distributed free of charge. Unlike the previous law, employees and former employees of Galenika and JAT will not receive free shares according to the criteria on which employees and former employees of NIS, Telekom, EPS and Aerodrom will receive up to 15% of the value of these companies, as is the case with all other social enterprises privatised in the privatisation process. Also, this is where the companies at Nicole Tesla Airport and the EPS are bound to do so. Corporationisation, i.e. from a public enterprise to stock companies, so that their actions could be traded on the stock market in general, and Belgrade Airport has until 30 June to complete the process of turning into a stock company, while the EPS has until 31 December of this year to transform into a stock company. The law requires NIS to carry out a corporation, i.e. by June 30th of this year, which means that citizens will be able to take the actions they received freely on the market and sell them from the beginning of this year. Essentially, this year, citizens, apart from the actions of the NIS and the cash they received at the beginning of the year, will receive Telekom's actions, the Belgrade Aerodrom action and the united action of the Action Fund, which contains all these packages that I was talking about, and next year they will also receive free EPS actions, and thus a free share of actions in Serbia will be completed. It also extends a deadline until 31.12.2012. So by 31 December 2012, citizens who decide to sell their stock on the stock market will not pay any compensation. The point is that the role of brokers for citizens will be played by the Post Office, i.e. the Post Office as a state-owned company, and they will do so free of charge for citizens. While only employees and former employees of Telekom, EPS, NIS and Aerodrom will have to do so if they want their actions, which are much more valuable because of the years of work experience and the other system they are counting on, to engage in their own brokers' management at their discretion and to decide when to sell their stock on the stock market. It's the essence of amending the Free Action Act. We want to share all the actions this year, except for the EPS actions we'd like to share next year. The prerequisite to divide actions is that both the Airport and the EPS are converted into stock companies so that their value can be calculated at all and to determine the nominal value of citizens' actions and then, after that division, citizens will be given the right to trade them on the stock market even before it is a privatisation process. Of course, in the case of Telekom this will coincide so that the essential privatisation process of Telekom will go in parallel with this process, so that citizens will have a clear picture of how much value will be achieved in the international tender. In an international tender, one of the conditions will be that the winner will have to offer the same price he offered to the state, offer at least such a price to citizens for free action, and the citizens will choose whether to accept the price or wait in some future for the value of the action to increase eventually and only then sell. So, citizens have freedom of choice. It is also important for NIS to complete its process of turning into an open stock society. We've also heard announcements from NIS management that they're ready to finish it by June, so this matches the obligation they have under the law and then the citizens will be able to trade in those stock exchanges as well. The only company that will not go into the privatisation process, whose free shares will be given to citizens, is the EPS and the Airport. There are currently no plans for EPS and Airport to privatise, but this does not mean that citizens will not be able to sell their shares on the stock market to interested investors. At the same time, the EPS represents the most convincing enterprise in the whole package. It's probably three or four times more valuable than the next one in a row here. I believe, or I am convinced that in the case of Telekom, the NIS case will not be repeated, given that this is an international tender and not a direct sale and that the value of the shares will be marketable, adequate and that finally the citizens will understand and see the value of this law. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on the Privatisation Agency, since the Action Fund is abolished, then the Privatisation Agency takes over the activities of the Action Fund so far. It also formalizes what the Agency is already doing under the Banks Act, which is business of a bankruptcy and liquidation manager. The Agency shall be given the possibility that, if a state authority is authorised, it may sell real estate on behalf of and on behalf of the seller. That is the essence of amending the Law on the Privatisation Agency. Finally, we have a completely different law ahead of us, and that's the law on metrology. The need to pass this law stems from the fact that the current law comes from the time of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The second thing is that it is necessary to comply with the WTO and EU regulations that we want to enter. The basic problem in the current law is that the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, which otherwise performs the tasks of certifying criteria such as reviewing and stamping criteria, issuing assurances etc., does, on the one hand, and measures, and on the other hand, conducts and monitors over what conflicts of interest is in accordance with European legislation, so that it is necessary to clearly distinguish the competences of the Directorate for Measures and precious metals and laboratories which are authorised to carry out the validation of different measurements. This is one technical law, which is very important, however, because it defines measuring in the areas of transport of goods and services, such as scales, gas stations, tanks, taximeters, water meters, gassomers, counted electricity. Also, in the area of health protection and general safety, such as various measurements through menometers for measuring blood pressures, injection syringes, thermometers. In the field of environmental protection, the criteria for radiation protection are laid down. In the area of traffic control and safety, it prescribes a way of measuring radar, ethylometers, including alcotists, and that is a law that is important for life to function. Therefore, the law ensures that a criterion defining this law can only be placed on the market if it is safe. There must be an institution that determines what it is, but there must be an institution that controls the lab. So, the lab has a function to give a safety certificate, but the Measurement and Precious Metals Directorate has a surveillance function and can eventually undo the lab's findings or both of these institutions have to be in agreement in order to have safe criteria in use on the market. It's mostly the most important content of this law. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38201	I thank the Vice-President and Minister for Economics and Regional Development Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Do the representatives of the committees in charge want the word, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, MP Srboljub Zivanovic, president of the Committee? (No) Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, want the word? (No) Is the word of Parliamentarian Lasslo Varga, president of the Committee on European Integration? (No) Did MP Jovan Palalic, who delivered his opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee when considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act, want to speak? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Palaly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38202	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development. According to our solutions, this law that we talked about ten months ago here in the National Assembly is confusing and unspeakable and ineffective and, above all, politically dangerous. The political danger of this law was seen in the very public debate that followed its adoption. The subject of this public debate was not regional development. The law's public debate was about drawing borders and everyone in Serbia, both in the government and among the political parties in power, was about drawing borders within central Serbia. The government has opened Pandora's box ten months ago, now repeating it, from which the evil spirit of drawing borders and sharing citizens in Serbia came out. It is hardly that this political danger can be challenged, especially now that we have heard from the Minister himself that the essence of this law is in fact preparing for the right political decentralisation i.e. to change Serbia's political system and arrangements. Of course, the curiosity of this law is that, before it was ever applied at all, it is fundamentally changing and fundamentally changing in the essential things that were supposed to take place in the previous period, as it is said here, the effect in reducing even regional development, but to look at what is said here in the law, the subjects of regional development and these changes, and the problems and this confusion that this law is making. As far as regions are concerned, essentially this law deals with borders within central Serbia. All the other regions that are defined here are defined by either the Constitution, such as the AP Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, their borders by the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, or the Belgrade city by special law. Here, when it comes to regions dealing with divisions within central Serbia, the government was unable to count the population in certain parts of Serbia, thus meeting the criteria required, but now with four statistical regions, as it is said here, defined two regions. The message of what is written here is that constitutional change is being prepared, as Boris Tadic announced, and here we now hear from Minister Dinkic, and the creation of a regional state. The problem of this law is thus defined by the authorities that will implement it at the level of Vojvodina will be their organs, defined by the Statute of the City of Belgrade, defined by law and the Statute of the City of Belgrade, and when it comes to bodies at the level of these two regions, they are, as it is said here, development councils. Second thing, what are the areas? Here's one additional contradiction and confusion. The area has been defined, and it is said -- the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine which municipalities will enter the area. So the boundaries will be redrawn, and that area has no jurisdiction whatsoever. In the past, some district associations were envisaged, and now that is being abolished. The area hangs in the air. No one even knows what she means here, except she's going to argue more with the citizens, because there's going to be a debate - which municipality is going to enter what area? So, completely vague and unspeakable. This was about development agencies. First of all, there's no telling what the criterion is that Vojvodina has three development agencies. Of course, it is hard to believe that anyone in Vojvodina will try to form that development agency, because it will diminish the political power of the government there. Secondly, local self-government is forced to finance them. Local self-governments, which I remind them of -- have not yet been returned to them, have been reduced by transfer funds, and are now additionally burdened with funding from regional development agencies. Anyway, what if local self-government doesn't want to form development agencies? How will the process and the whole concept be implemented? Essentially, this law has nothing to do with regional development and will not contribute to regional development in any of its solutions. The real regional development will be - the fight against the lack of development of municipalities, the return of property to municipalities, the return of transfer funds that have been abolished and access to fiscal decentralisation, and this law to withdraw from the process - because it only inflicts political damage and a weak state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38203	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38204	Let me answer that. You probably didn't realize that regional development agencies already exist. You didn't listen, I said they won't form because they exist. If you live in Serbia, if you live outside Belgrade, then you know that there is today a Regional Development Agency in Kragujevac, Užica, Pozarevec and Zajecar, and in Sombor, and in Subotica. So your observation -- who's going to finance these regional agencies, the same ones that are funding them today. Your point is I have to say pointless, because sources of funding are known. They will be financed by local self-governments that have an interest in such an agency exists, not by one local self-government, but by, say, the Forest Development Agency and the Pomorava in Kragujevac, they can also be interested in surrounding municipalities, not just Kragujevac. Also, for the Užice, those municipalities that engravite the Užica in whatever way. So they already exist and will not be formed new, so that the remark does not stand. As far as the area is concerned, this law concerns not only regional development in terms of encouraging economic regional development, but also the Law on Planning and Construction. The authorities here are defined for the purpose of building spatial plans. The Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection has just requested that we have defined areas, which are defined and in their law, so that the laws are compatible. As far as decentralisation itself is concerned, which will be debated, as I said, we will see what solutions will be. My personal view is that there is no need to have four levels of government, because these would be the areas, it's good and it's enough, and the largest number of EU countries has a three-stage government -- central, medium-level government and local self-government. These are countries that are regionalized. This question I'm sure is politically not dangerous. Why? If it has not been dangerous in all EU countries that have already carried out regionalisation, including the newly arrived countries of Eastern Europe, or the former countries in transition, I do not know why it would be dangerous in Serbia if there is good will, constructiveness and if we are guided by national interests. Since this is, however, about statistical regions, it was then the easiest division to take the core Corridor 10 as some imaginary line between one part of central Serbia and thus the statisticalally proposed regions – Eastern and South Serbia, whatever its name is, both Shumadia and Western Serbia. So right and left of Corridor 10 or east and west of Corridor 10, since it's statistical regions. What is the essence of decentralisation, I can agree with you there – is fiscal decentralisation, is the return of property and is the right of locals, municipalities, even local communities to make decisions regarding solving the particular problems of those people who live there. This law does not deal with this, because this law is not a law on political regionalisation, but rather a law on statistical regionalisation, for the purpose of creating an instrument to promote even regional development, which is why no key instruments that have already been set up by the law so far have been changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38205	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer and for your clarification. (Jovan Palalic, from the place: I seek the word of the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you my word. No, this was just an answer to what you're saying, and thank you for touching certain questions. (Jovan Palalic, from the scene: I am looking for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.) Who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38206	Dear Chairman, I think all of us in the National Assembly, including ministers, must respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister here said that the MP is speaking nonsense, I think it's a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, I know very well that there are regional development agencies and we know how this whole concept of law is designed – that the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development is transformed into a National Agency, and regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to turn into these regional agencies. It's all familiar to me already. However, do not imitate municipalities to decide how they will join together, or how they will think about solving their economic, social, and development problems. On the other hand, these same municipalities, which are formed by regional development agencies, have been limited by that – that some national agency, which does not participate in their establishment and financing, decides whether they will be accredited or will not be accredited. What is the right of some government authority to do so and thus interfere in the work of municipalities? On the other hand, the political danger emerged during the debate of these regions. All the noise has been raised by Bosniak parties – where certain municipalities will be. These parties have also conditioned support for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Tomorrow we can expect other parties to be asked the same way as soon as the issue is opened – drawing borders. The political danger, which I was talking about here, will be even more exposed when you start drawing areas and when the story of borders, which is most important in Serbia, which is burdened with social and other problems, becomes a subject for everyone to deal with, neglecting other problems. In this law lies the faces of this political danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38207	You haven't called any members. You have not called, thank you for your help, but the MP is obliged to call on a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. Mr. Aligruditch, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38208	I call for the violation of Article 27 – the way in which the session is held and the general interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to which you are obliged under that same article. When some MPs say that a provision of the Rules of Procedure should be called upon, it can be done by doing so numerically, by saying the number and provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have been violated, or by descriptively doing so, by referring unequivocally to a certain provision of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to insulting the dignity of this House and of the People's MPs. Therefore, you are the chairman. You're not here for a trip, you're not here for a picnic or optional, you're here for a session. When the MP says someone insulted him, you know very well what provision of the Rules of Procedure does that apply. These formalised interpretations – that you have to say the number, and some of the life forms, leave it for some other situations, or go back to the time when you and the SPS were going through Serbia, the way you did it, so do it there.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38209	The Serbian public and MPs are witnesses of the fact that Mr. Minister has really given only an explanation and answers. There was no insult or tendency to replace the thesis simply isn't standing, it's not in place and it's not right, but it's a good thing that the public is fully involved in everything that's going on in this room. Do the MPs Momir Markovic, Sladjan Mijaljević and Radica Jocic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not talk about the harmfulness of this law, I will not talk about how much further demarcation, the secession of Serbia will be when this law begins to be implemented, and besides, in a public debate, SRS MPs will explain enough. Looks like there's a pre-election campaign in Bora because yesterday we saw a minister with a helmet driving a dumper. Did that dumper give the minister or his G17 plus? It seems sooner to me that it's a Serbia-state dumpper that's been given to the Bor mine. The minister has a very nice helmet and he drives that dumper very nicely. I also noticed that as soon as he arrived in Bor, he got his license plate number. Mladjan Dinkic has not yet, but if this announced action against corruption and crime takes place, if the interior minister finishes what he promised, if the president of Serbia really does what he promised in that fight, I think some ministers will also get a registration number. The real goal of passing this law, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, is in something else -- the Regional Development Agency, on the other hand, the Regional Party announced several months ago. The main difference was the Agency for Regional Development, and now it's a regional development agency, but President G17 plus seems to have realized that only five of these regional local parties accept to join the coalition and possibly tomorrow's party, and that's why we have five regions instead of seven so far. If the other two agree to join the coalition, if they agree on the soil, on the division of cookies, then we will soon have an amendment and addition of this law, and only in the member who says - five regions instead of seven regions. Of course, success will be double. The president of the G17 will make the Party of the region, which will be far more influential than today's party, and the regions will control the flow of state money. When I tell the region, I say read again -- president G17 plus. Nothing's going to change, only whoever's been counting money will continue to count and distribute a little differently. Of course, it will not be, as the minister announced, reducing the administration due to a different regional division, because those who are now employed in all the structures of that Regional Development Agency will only change the chair and change their solution – no longer at the Regional Development Agency, is now employed by the regional development agency. The salaries, of course, as they are now new jobs, will grow safely, and thus will increase the tax and all other taxes that Serbian citizens must give, because God is now a new state organisation, so that it will have to be financed. So Mladjan Dinkic will make a regional party about the cost of the state. I think it's a little late because already one regional party of local treasures is collecting voters in many parts of Serbia, of course, money from Serbian citizens and money from the Serbian state, from taxpayers' money. That's why I singled out my opinion, and I think we'll say a lot more in the principle debate and in the debate on amendments. I think that after that, the minister will definitely withdraw this bill and continue the election campaign in the municipality of Bor, i.e. in the town of Bor, which he started yesterday, because the elections will be announced very soon, and it seems to me that the reputation of this present party does not guarantee some success, and until then he will not succeed in making the Party of the region, so that all future voters will be deceived once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38211	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38212	Mr. People's MP, I will not withdraw this law, but I am very honored that you are following my movements. Still, you didn't have a good observation, I didn't wear a helmet in Bora yesterday. I don't know where your helmet came from, it was worn by a worker sitting next to me on a dumper, I wasn't wearing it. I am truly honored that you have time to monitor my work and movement. Of course, speaking of parties, I suggest you take care of your own, not my party. I think that would be more useful for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38213	Mrs. Radica Jocic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38214	On the Committee on European Integration, I singled out my opinion on this set of laws, which were united in the same point, so that I could say a few things about what the Committee's assistant ministers pointed out yesterday, as well as the minister who had just explained the laws in the opening statement. You said in the opening statement that last year you did not divide Serbia into seven even regions, so now there are changes and additions, and now there will be five and that will be even. What's changed since last year? In principle, the proposal of seven, and this new one with five regions, is about decommissioning the state and drawing the borders, which has already been pointed out several times here. You're also saying that in last year's version too much administration was envisaged, so now that administration is shrinking. Then why didn't you accept any amendments to the SRS last year that we asked for those agencies not to be formed? Furthermore, you said that the essence of decentralisation is the transfer of authority to local self-government. You had the courage to mention it as an example of Corridor 10. About four kilometers of Kragujevac – Batocina highway. You have so much boasted as if it had been built at least 400 kilometers, and in Corridor 10 Minister Mrkonjic has been pompously opening the works we have already forgotten when, and so far it has not been built a mile, and it has been almost two years. In Pirot, you keep pushing, especially you from G17, the valley variant of Corridor 10, which should pass directly through the settlement and against which most of the population is Pirot. I don't see who she's answering to. For days in SO Pirot, there has been a debate about it, but you are persistently ignoring all the arguments that are cited in favour of the mountain's variant, you continue to insist in the valley. We'll talk about it a little bit more in the principle debate. Half the time you spent in the opening show, you were talking about loans, like no one would ever have to pay them back. In the end, when you were talking about free action, I get the impression that you think that if you repeat something a hundred times that's not true it's actually going to be true. Of course, citizens who expected a thousand euros, as you specifically said, have not seen anything yet, not to say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38215	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38216	Here, let me explain to you why the government advocates the valley variant, when you mentioned it. Because the hill variant is 120m euros more expensive. If you build Corridor 10 through the Sitician ravine of the so-called "Corridor 10". With the mountain variant, 120m euros is more expensive. I know that it may suit the citizens of Pirota that mountain variant, but if the citizens of Pirota are willing to pay those 120m euros, I'm sure the Serbian government will accept it. That's the reason. So the reason is that he's a much more expensive variant for taxpayers who need to pay for it. Secondly, I did not mention loans in my presentation, but I was talking about pre-accession EU funds, which are donations, or grants.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38217	Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38218	So I singled out my opinion on the Committee on European Integration, and as this integration takes place, I would call it the Committee on European Disintegration. I'll be based primarily on this regionalization law. So, another of the countless laws that, in just a few months or an incomplete year, experience changes and additions. In some countries, the laws last a hundred years and more, and we change the law in this trip to Europe every month, two, three, half a year. The SRS is against the proposed law for several reasons. First, the proposal for new administrative regions will not bring more money to municipalities and districts, but a minimum of 12 agencies will be opened. Some will grow into others, some already exist, some will open or work but, in any case, there will be a minimum of 12 new agencies. From your presentation, we have just heard that they will be financed by local self-government again or at least partially financed by local self-government, and once again, by some group of people, by some commission that will make some money, or pre-accession funds and these grants to those to whom they decide they should be distributed. So they won't be able directly to look for the municipalities themselves but there will be some agency that will decide who will win and who won't win, and now, of course, again on some of your criteria. The other for us is political, or security. Personally, I believe that this is the dispersion of Serbia, i.e. the continuation of the "Mercy Angel" and that it is not about explosions at the moment, but about implosions. So you set up such mechanisms where Serbia will collapse itself from the inside. That the interest of the great forces to divide Serbia into as many parts as they ask for, I asked that question because I had such knowledge, and the press also talked about it. I asked 14 parliamentary questions in December 2008 and I received answers from several ministries, which were really funny, to use certain gradities that we very often hear from ministers here, so I got answers that are more than funny. Some of them were to have no knowledge, one or another, that only seven months later Joseph Biden came and gave me an answer as to whether Serbia would be divided into five regions. Yes, he said, you can share Serbia in five regions. Now our ministers don't know, and the Vice President of America knows. It's really offensive. Of course, Mr. Minister ran right away with a new thesis that Serbia should be divided into seven parts. However, although the law has been passed, it cannot be the way Minister Dinkic or some people here in power, but rather the way foreign mentors want it to be. So there'll be five of them. Whatever you're using, through your explanations, through your demagogue or populist speeches, that the Vlachs don't know, that your regionalization we see like this: you say we're following your movements, yes, and your movements and your exposure, and today in your presentation we've heard a lot of things that confirm our thoughts and our visions. I'm really fed up with the sentence you said, which is that these administrative regions will become even political regions for a while. So it's really going into a very serious division of Serbia. Whatever you give in response to further explanations, you cannot convince me of this, because some of you who are using you are asking you to do it with Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38219	The word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38220	Although I've already said twice that there will be no new agencies, and I repeat it the third time, because you keep repeating something that doesn't stand. So today in Serbia, all these agencies that are envisioned by law already exist. Ponovic, there is a regional development agency in Kragujevac, a regional development agency in Pozarevc, Zajecar, Vranj, Leskovac, Kralje, Užic, Novi Pazar, there is a regional development agency in Sombor, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin. So there's no need to form agencies, so it's incorrect your claim that at least 12 regional agencies will be formed, because these already exist. Thus, the way in which the funding is financed will be the same as so far. So there's no extra costs, no new administration. I'm ready to do this a hundred times today if I have to. Whoever says new agencies will be formed, I'm obliged to give the answer that they won't, but they already exist. Another thing, which is very important, do you think that citizens living in southern and eastern Serbia or citizens living in Shumadia, western Serbia today have the same economic rights as citizens living in Vojvodina, or do we have an asymmetric state, since Vojvodina is a historical province, which also has its own government, its budget and its powers, which is good for the people of Vojvodina, but others do not? There are no citizens living in Pogorevc, or citizens living in Vranj, or citizens living in Nis, Užica, who have no such possibility that, except the central government, they also have a central level of regional government, which has adequate fiscal powers and which has appropriate legislative powers. I have to tell you something, today in the EU 70% of the law is passed at the level of the region, not at the level of the central states. So I'm saying what practice is in the EU. So, at the level of local self-government and so on. medium levels, regional levels of government, 70% of all the rules governing the life of a country are passed. Of course, I know that some are not in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU, but all those who advocate Serbia's entry into the EU should first study, think, accept or accept the rules that apply in Europe and which are good. Why is it good that some laws of importance, for example to protect the environment, are not brought to the level of central government but brought to the region? Because it's not the same to protect the Deliblat Cave or protect Tara National Park or the Kopalnik. They're completely different areas. It is good that regions determine specific laws in the field of environmental protection. In many cases, the area of health care is also transferred to regions to regulate these responsibilities. In this regard, it is good that there is no large proportion of competences within certain parts of the same country. If Vojvodina now has certain powers, it is really good that similar, they do not have to be the same, because it does not have to be asymmetrically quite, but similar powers should be given to people in western Serbia, eastern Shumadija, in order to have equal rights. That is why I personally consider it, and of course the citizens and the debate will eventually show whether this is good for Serbia. I'm convinced it is, because the more power comes to a man, a citizen, the more down he goes, the more effective the services of the state towards that citizen. This requires seeing the power of unity and diversity, not speaking in terms from the last century about some dispersion. I know that there is fear, but if all the countries in the EU or most of them are, perhaps three or four are not, regionalised, there is no reason for us in Serbia to be afraid, but I agree that the fears that exist require a relatively long debate and that everyone should give their opinion and that we should come to a solution to decentralisation that is best for Serbia, but it is important that we do not have an asymmetric state like we do now. It's important for us, not for the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38221	We move to a part of the session where the words are held by the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Since no representative of the PUPS parliamentary group has come forward, the word is Mr Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38222	Madam President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to speak exclusively of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act. We consider this law a first step towards regionalisation, but we do not attach such great importance to this law as does much of the opposition. We do not think that anything will fundamentally change as far as the country's structure is concerned, as regards the degree of regionalisation and decentralisation of this law, but we consider it a good step to adopt this law and it is certainly commendable that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has been ready to propose amendments and amendments to the law only a few months after the adoption of the Law on Regional Development in the National Assembly. In June of last year, I was saying that there was a battle between parties over regionalization, which is more about decentralisation. You must remember, Mr Dinkic, that I congratulated you as the president of a party that you won the battle because you were the first party president, and also the minister, who specifically suggested something for decentralisation and regionalisation in the Republic of Serbia. But it's a little bit of a quick one. That's why we have to change this law today, but that's not bad. It is commendable if someone wants to notice that something is not perfect and that something must be complemented, that some changes must be made. You certainly know that SVM is for every kind of decentralisation and regionalisation, whether it's statistical regionalisation, economic decentralisation, administrative regionalisation. We're regionalizing for every species, because we think it's a good thing for the whole country and that it should go into fundamental decentralisation as soon as possible. We see the Regional Development Act as only one tool, as one means of balanced regional development, as a means of withdrawing funds from EU pre-accession funds, and that is about all we can expect from this law, but this is very important at the moment and at the current level of integration of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the path of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. One modern law can't be built on bad grounds, that's what I was talking about in July. You can say, Mr. Minister, that not all issues, which are relevant to this law, are in the area, or in the jurisdiction of your ministry, and that you are forced to rely on certain existing solutions in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. But it's not exactly like that on the one hand, and on the other hand, as you were prepared to propose amendments and additions to this law, so we should all show common willingness to change something that doesn't work well and that doesn't give a good basis for applying this law. I mean administrative districts, according to the terminology of this law in the area, because it can't be talked about effective means of even regional development when you don't consider it as a ministry of certain logical, geographical, economic, telecommunications, infrastructure facts. We can't talk about even regional development, development documents, development plans, regional spatial plans when we start with the most incorrect fact that, for example, The municipality of Ada, or the municipality of Kanjiž, or the municipality of Senta are located in Banat. That's geographically not true. This situation has to change, because if it doesn't change, then we won't have good development documents in those areas, I mean in the North-Bed area and in the North-Bandish area, we won't have good regional spatial plans as a first step towards even regional development, and we won't make life easier for those people living in the territory of these municipalities. The goal of this law, I hope we agree, is that people live better. This is about practical things, about business, about economy, about infrastructure, about telecommunications, pre-accession EU funds, not about politics, even less about national issues. I know that last months have artificially created a climate that Hungarians want their region, Bosniaks want their region, Albanians want their region and everything is going in that direction that doesn't correspond to reality. In the areas of these municipalities, I'm talking about Ada, Kanjiza, Senti, where you've been regularly coming to, you've been gone lately, but I'd like you to come, say, to Kanjiž, to take a walk together along the Tisa coast and to find out whether we're in Bacakh or in Banat, and whether it's in the interest of Kanjižana, where both Serbs, Croats, Roma, not only Hungarians, belong to the North-Balkan region and not to the North-Banta area based in Kikinda, because there's no business, no infrastructure, no telecommunication, no other connections between, let's say, Kanjija and Kikinda, but there's also a lot of such connections between Kanjiza and Subotica. Therefore, unfortunately, I must spend most of my time on this issue because it was not resolved by the law adopted in July last year, the issue was not resolved by these proposed amendments to the law, and even less by the Regulation on the nomenclature of statistical territorial units, which has been in force since 1 January 2010. We're in favour of building a good system, efficient and not ignoring certain notor facts. We think that this issue is resolved, that it is only necessary to find the political will and political courage to change some of the things that are from the national initiatives, from the national motives done in 1992. I must repeat once again that there is no policy and national sign in our application, but it was also a national sign when in 1992 the Hungarian electoral body was divided into two continents because it was then a majority electoral system and it was necessary to do everything in the interest of Hungarians to have as few MPs as possible in the National Assembly. That's why three municipalities were transferred, contrary to every elemental human logic, to Banat. This situation is still in effect in 2010. Something similar has happened to Bosniaks and Albanians in Serbia's territory, but the Regional Development Act cannot be based on such a solution. I hope you agree. It can be said, as is written in the Regulation on the nomenclature of statistical territorial units, that existing administrative divisions will be respected, that this Regulation, as well as the Regional Development Act, cannot be touched in the existing administrative division of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you, Mr. President, that the districts are not a constitutional category and that the districts should not be spoken of when it comes to administrative division. When we talk about administrative division, then there are local self-government units in Serbia, i.e. municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, on the one hand, on the other hand, the autonomous province, for now two and a Republic of Serbia. So, the districts are not decentralisation bodies, the counties are deconcentration bodies, or districts are district centers of the state administration. The districts have nothing to do with decentralisation and regionalisation and therefore it is entirely wrong to define areas based on administrative districts. You also wrote in the Regulation on the nomenclature of statistical territorial units in Article 3 that the criteria under which the NSTJ level grouping is carried out, i.e. The nomenclatures of statistical territorial units shall be based on the general criteria established by EU standards. Here you listed four criteria – population number, geopolitical position, natural potential and cultural and historical heritage. I don't understand what the criteria of these four are for Kanjiza in Banat. Kanjiza should not be in Banat based on the number of inhabitants, based on geopolitical position, based on natural potential, or on cultural and historical heritage. That is why we should find a way together to change this situation that hinders the development of these municipalities. You said Vojvodina would have at least three agencies. You stated that most likely one agency would have one Buck, one Banat and one Lucky. It's so logical for me too geographically. If we know that Kanjiza, Ada and Senta are like the baccas of a municipality in the North Banatian administrative district and thanks to this law in the Northbanat area, then I don't know how you can talk about Buck, Banat and Srem, because that logic fell by passing such a law or regulation last year. You also said that when the region was defined, it was taken into account, i.e. from Corridor 10. Kanjiza, Senta and Ada are on the other side of Corridor 10, which is both on the side of Subotica or Sombor, or Novi Sad, meaning, on the back side, and not on the side where Kikinda is. I don't know what logic that makes Kanjiga belong to the Northbank area. On March 2nd, the Kanjiž municipality adopted an initiative that you received. This is an initiative to amend the Regulation on administrative districts and the Regulation on the nomenclature of statistical territorial units. Which is very interesting, I hope everyone remembers this fact, this initiative was brought to SO Kanjiža unanimously. Not only were the representatives of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and Hungarians voted for this initiative, but all the parties, including the DS that has the council, are the opposition, but they have the committees in So Kanjiz. If you, Mr Dinkic, are for decentralisation, for regionalisation, for increasing the importance of municipalities and cities, then this initiative, which has been unanimously adopted, should be taken into account, especially because this initiative and the reasons for which SO Kanjiža considers it necessary to belong to the Northback area. It's a geographical position. This is the link between Kanjija and the North-Hungarian region in the fields of education, culture, health, justice, economy. This was recently passed by the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors on the one hand, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chambers of Commerce on the other. It is a unique economic region, a unique spatial development, infrastructure development, a unique ecological area. There are centuries of connections in the area of construction, production and processing of raw materials, fruit growing, vineyarding, vegetable production, livestock production, food industry. And there's the infrastructure connection I was just talking about, it's just about Corridor 10, of course. We could also mention the importance of Tisa-Palić channel, connection in the production and processing of cereals, the sugar industry, production and processing of industrial peppers, vegetables. It's a naturally unique area. It's a unique telecommunications area, it's a call number 224. If we know the importance of the Regional Development Act is to create assumptions and conditions for regions to compete with pre-accession EU funds and to establish their development plans, then these geographical, economic, economic, infrastructure, telecommunications facts should be applied and taken into account. We've been thinking, Mr. Minister, about how to formulate the amendment so that it would be acceptable to see that there are no national issues at all. Since the law states that the government, on the proposal of the authority responsible for statistics affairs, determines the units of local self-government and urban municipalities that make up the area, you see, Mr. Minister, even in law itself, not to mention the districts, but to mention local self-government and city municipalities, we have suggested that this act be adopted taking care of three criteria. One of the criteria would be the geographical continent, meaning taking care of geographical continents. What's in Backo is in Backo, which is in Banatu, it's a very simple thing. The second thing that should be taken into account, which we have proposed in the amendment, is a network of economic courts and a network of chambers of commerce. You remember, Mr. Minister, that we were able to achieve with you, that we were very pleased, the agreement and the agreement on chambers of commerce, that these illogicalities in that law of the IC. That's very good, but it should be done with this law. The third and fourth criteria, if we consider economic courts and chambers as two criteria, then the fourth criteria are telecommunications areas. We believe that the areas should be defined on the basis of these criteria. It wouldn't hurt any of the residents of these municipalities, it wouldn't hurt the economy or the infrastructure, quite the opposite. That is why we have proposed that you accept this amendment and we hope that you will not compromise the good idea contained in this law on regional development and that we will jointly manage to draw up one text and accept one text of amendments and addition to the law that will take care of all the facts that should be governed by one such law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38223	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38224	I'd like to comment and give answers to some of the questions you've asked. First of all, as you know, the law itself does not deal with administrative districts. It's the subject of the second law. That's what we talked about last time, when it came to this law. As far as administrative districts are concerned, they are deliberately not mentioned for the same reason in this law. I said my personal position, that in some future process of decentralisation, and that of political decentralisation of Serbia, we should only have three levels of government -- central, regional and local self-government. In my personal opinion, the administrative districts need to be completely abolished. I think you're right when you say they don't have a decentralisation function, but as you said. Because of that, I don't think they make any sense. If you ask me for an opinion, the districts should be abolished at some point, given that they are dysfunctional. But it's not the subject of this law, I'm just expressing my personal opinion. Much greater power should be given to local self - administrations, and even see to what level of large local communities to give additional authority. In that sense, when we talk about districts, I understand your objection and I want to try to resolve some of your dilemmas too. In fact, when we say that there will be at least three developmental regional agencies in Vojvodina, and when I said that I was thinking about Srem, Banat and Baka, I was thinking first of all about those development agencies that are already the most active in Vojvodina, which have already shown the best results. These are agencies based in Novi Sad, Zrenjanin and Subotica. Therefore, if these three agencies get accredited, which is at least three, because there is a fourth in Somboro, there are no more agencies in Vojvodina, but these three are certainly the biggest candidates for accreditation. This would mean that the essential Saturday agency would also be competent to direct incentives through regional development for Kanjija, for example, you asked this as a question. In that sense, when I said corridor 10 was used, it was not used as some line to create these imaginary statistical lines of the area, but regions in central Serbia, I said. As you know, and Srem, and Banat, and Baka, and Kanjiža, and Subotica and Novi Sad are in Vojvodina, so in one region. I said here that we used corridor 10 to sort of demarcate the two statistical regions in central Serbia. Finally, I think your amendment is acceptable and we will accept it. It's just that everything you've been saying has full meaning and this criterion that you've given to define the areas by the decision of statistics, taking care of geographical continents, the network of economic courts and chambers of commerce, as well as telecommunications areas, it's a very good proposal and we've already considered it. I'm taking the opportunity to tell you that we'll accept that. There's one more thing I'd like to say, and that's -- why did the Republic Statistics Institute, when it adopted a regulation on the classification of the area, use the existing boundaries of administrative districts. Because it was insisted by the European Statistics Agency, Eurostat. So they insist on every country to be when determining so-called. lower statistical levels such as NUTS 3, so this is the level of the area, that some existing legal solutions are used. Of course, they do not prescribe that it must be these very environments because it is not even given by law, but by regulation. Clearly, it's possible to change that. I'm telling you again personally, I don't think there should be any environment, because only the subject of division, are not the subject of attachment, but that's my opinion. It's a much wider question, and we need to talk about it, find some consensus. I think it would be easier to solve problems if we didn't have counties than if we focus on regions and local self-government, as the main bearers of decentralisation. Given that the environments are not subject to this law, as I have already said, and that for defining the area again, the statistics that will ask Eurostat for opinion, I think these criteria that you have given in the amendment are acceptable, so I agree with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38225	Mr. Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38226	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for announcing that he would accept this amendment. I know we agree on the county, but all I wanted in my discussion was to underline more than one time that the whole concept shouldn't be built on the basis of a very bad concept of administrative districts. I read the data that Eurostat proposed to start from the administrative districts, but I think the reason is that from Serbia Eurostat did not properly explain what the districts are, or what they are not. You said very correctly that the environments are no legal matter at all, the environments are regulated by the government's regulation. I just want to ask, so that the citizens of these municipalities know clearly what this is about – does acceptance of the amendments mean that, finally, Kanjiza, Ada and Senta will belong to the North-Hungarian area, because from accepting the amendments, this is the essence? The practical reason for the adoption of this amendment, i.e. that positive side of the amendment, would be that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38227	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38228	I won't get into the statistics business, but accepting the amendments gives clear criteria to statistics on how to fix this area. On the other hand, I already told you that the agency that will be responsible for infrastructure development, as well as for the development of entrepreneurship, in Kanjiza, will be the agency based in Subotica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38229	MP New Serbia, do you want a word? No, I don't. LDP MP group, do you want a word now? Yeah. I'm sorry, Mr. Velimir Ilic answered. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, we are pleased today to see again in parliament on the same subject of a simple Serbian genius, who came here to explain to us how we should organise ourselves in Serbia and work. It is our pleasure and we should be happy that today is the world's best finance minister, who has been declared, a man who creates a country in which he will be able to pass the censorship, not asking for a price to cost Serbia. He gathers everything and everything spent, spent, ismortized, to make a pass, and he's very convincing to explain to us what it's all about. There's only one thing he hasn't explained to us. He's a three-year minister for equal regional development, he's got a lot of agencies, he's listed here in all the big cities, where, of course, he had an interest in opening them up. What is the effect of these agencies? Not at all. What job was done there? Not at all. How do you live there? Poor, like in all of Serbia. What did those agencies do? They hired people from G17, made committees, and that's how they work. That's a lot of the state. What we're doing today is going to cost the country tremendously. We'll have regional agencies, municipal agencies. This is under some kind of decentralisation. There's dictatorship in the municipalities. Everything that comes to them comes to them from the center, or Dinkic. He's holding the register. If he says he can, he doesn't need any institutions, no organs, he shows up and says -- it's agreed, if it's in his interest. If he's not, he says he can't, and he has nothing to do with it. Therefore, we are now making some trade deal with Bosniak parties that, in order to accept the vote of the declaration, are asking for this. Here, you heard the other day of Zukorlic who explained it nicely. You've heard a lot of people explain it. Mr. Minister trades with Serbian living, with territories, with municipalities, he doesn't care at all. The woods share where he thinks, find some of those spent politicians who no longer exist, people become senile, they get 70, and only here beat around this parliament, who flies without a head and they go, for God's sakes, make something, do something, and there's nothing. I'm looking at him now in Arangelovac, he doesn't mind if Ljajic and the stove come, and the jeans and everything, just to pass. He's not crazy anymore. He won't vote anymore. Dinkic has been burning and burning for ten years with this Serbia. He owns the National Bank. Ten years have never once reported to this parliament on the bank's work. Never. We don't even know where the foreign reserve is, under any circumstances. We don't know anything. He literally does what he wants. After destroying the economy completely, and it was art to destroy one "The First Five-year-old", "Magnochrom", one "Bohr", one "Nish", one "Viscose", where he took power, he demonized everything. In many cities, there is not a single factory that works. Then he defined himself as tourism. He started ski resorts. Story – Old Mountain, Eastern Serbia, Europe's largest ski centre, prosperity, all living, doing nothing. Miss again. It's a failed thing again. Then he goes to Golia and gets stuck there, destroys everything, and so on, if I didn't count those ski centers, it'd be gone now. His friend Schlaff and he enter the Mozart bookies, they start working in casinos, in Lutri, the airport, not to speak, Kristo. Oh, my God, save it. Now he remembers the region. Now his main player, Bosko Nicic, has destroyed the eastern Krajina. He's sitting in Big Brother, and that's where he swims the whole Zajchar. In Zajcar, misery and misery, people have no place to sleep, nothing to eat, no cattle to feed. What did you do there, Mr. genius? I didn't see you there, and I saw you walking the giraffe. You like a little giraffe to take a walk, right, that was very attractive. (President: Mr. MP, please take care of the Minister's address. That's all true. I'm doing the TV program neatly. I'm commenting on the shows that are on TV. A genius walked down there to take care of that Priboy. There's something he needs to do. There's nothing out of FAP, now he's going to make some kind of deal for Nova Varosh, and Pryboy and Prepolje. How are we talking about decentralisation of local authorities? There they occupied the congregations of the municipalities and made decisions not to agree with this. People signed a petition. Hundreds of thousands of people say they don't want to hear about this, and a genius pushes it. He doesn't care. He's gonna get that majority. It's going to pass with 126 and he doesn't care what happens down there. He destroyed Novi Pazar. He made a lot of promises. That's where it all went right, and then a genius came along and destroyed everything. He made a deal with the Ugljanin. He swallowed it fast. Carbon's smart man, he saw what it was about. Now he's moved with Ljajic into the combination. Now there's a big love, a big combination and a big game. Let's not talk about what's going on and how it's going. Mr. genius, let me call you that because you're the best minister in the world, and the country goes bankrupt, Minister, and you're the best minister in the world. Good for us. In Banat, people don't have any water to drink for 50 years. Genius, what did you do in Banat to make people drink water when it's even regional development? You know, did you hear about the "Glassy" dam? Five municipalities have no water to drink. Have you singled out a dinar from the NIP during your ten-year term? You've mined that project, and that's not where it's working. There won't be water to drink again this summer. Get down on the ground. In the 21st century, it's a shame that people don't have the water to drink. You promised everything in Koserić. You've taken power. Did you know that there's no water to drink all summer? Do you know they don't have any water to drink in the King? Did you know that half of Serbia has no water to drink, Minister, drinking water? You've found your other geniuses who help you in that story and you've left this business story, about companies. You've completely forgotten that. You don't mention anything anymore. The "Electronic Industry" used to be a shock to you. You said in Nis, we're running it, we're doing it. That's not gonna happen. You've destroyed your health care since it's your resort. You ruined the sport. Imagine if the Red Star sold her coat of arms to pay for her food to the athletes, she sold her coat of arms. Hello, are you out of your mind? Are you thinking about something in the government? That's never happened in history. (President: Mr. MP, I really ask you to take care of the content of what you say, the subject on the agenda. Please stick to the subject and make sure we address each other... ) The theme is regionalization. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38231	Don't put me in a position to impose sanctions. You'll have to do it again. There's 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38232	You see, as soon as we begin to praise your ministers, you don't let me compliment them. I'm talking about a genius move, a genius minister, and you're interrupting me. What would you do if I criticized him? Then they would shut me out completely, right? In Vojvodina, you promised to live a better life. You promised the statute, the transfer of jurisdiction. How do you live in Vojvodina? Worse, twice as much. How much did the country model, Mr. genius? How much fruit did it cut? Did you know that an orchard of 800 seedlings to cut needs a wagon of plums to pay for the residence, what is the price of fruit? How do regions survive? You destroyed the production of milk, meat, importing flowers. It's all broken. Now you've remembered to build your famous offices. Now you're going to do economic diplomacy, so these regions are going to grow and make parallel diplomacy existing. The Wolf of Jeremic will be out of a job. You keep telling your genius people, experts, to send these ideas around the world, to sow them around the world and blow them up. You keep doing this about the cost of this country, the cost of this people, the cost of the budget. You're subsidizing "punta." Why just "punta"? What's going on in Kragujevac these days? How many people work there? What's the problem? Why are they unhappy? What about 200,000 cars, Mr. genius? What about a thousand euros per capita? What about four highways? What about thousands of kilometers of corridors? Now you've become a butter. Now you've started to regulate travel companies. You understand everything. You've completely dumped the ski resorts, and you're no longer interested in that. Now you're moving on to building infrastructure. Many ministers will lose their jobs because of you. Now you're drawing a map of Serbia. Ask in Novi Pazar, ask in Tutina if people are satisfied, ask in Sjenica? What did you do there? Which factory does it work? Give me one. What road did you make there, what water, sewer? What did you do? Now you want to make Prepolje happy and, of course, Pryboy, and Pryboy's spa under control and get it all done and regulated, and there's nothing to do with it. What about Corridor 7 Danube? It's a regional thing. You don't mention it, you don't have time because you're very busy with this. You need to create a party that will pass the censorship, and you won't pass the censorship. No one in Serbia will ever see you again. People have swallowed up those lies of yours and frauds, and it can't go through anymore. You're talking about prosperity. Where is that well-being? You went to Bor now to get your picture taken because it's local elections. Why didn't you solve Bor in ten years? You went ten times to solve it and you didn't solve it. Did you file a report on what you found at the National Bank when you broke in there? Did you and Borko Wolf make a handover? You're not. That woman fought against it. So I don't see why you're dealing with this, and isn't Serbia in the way of work, solving problems that are current, but doing what it does? Your other genius, who you've asked to regionally take out Serbia, the president of the Committee, another genius, I won't mention his name to deserve it, so you two are going to ruin it. Give you money and give you something to do, like a razor child. You know, when you give a kid a razor, you can expect anything. So none of this has anything to do with it. We're wasting our time today. Do you realize you've infected Serbia, infected. You simply became a cancer for Serbia, for the Serbian economy, for Serbian development, for Serbian employment, etc. You'd have to back off a little bit, get out of the way. You're always giving severances to someone, and we're asking how long it takes to get you somewhere? What's the cost of severance to send you somewhere, to rest a little, to live a little, to work a little? No municipality today has one dinar of property, and you're talking about decentralisation. The municipality doesn't have any property. All that's left of state institutions, barracks, it's in the fallout phase. Look what it looks like. It's all gone, it's falling apart, it's burning down the roofs. Shame, you didn't do anything. You brought these foreign banks. You destroyed Beobank, Investment Bank, Jugobank. They made the country a joke because it's hard to live, where it can't survive, where the peasant doesn't know where he's going with him. You're building a Chinese bridge. You're talking about him. Your two years of office have passed. You said the works are moving in March with a full pair, just going to spray on Serbia. Regionally, Serbia is developing, moving. It's April now, and it's coming in May very soon, and they're starting their vacation. Two years have passed by the government, and what have you done? Nothing. How many corridors have you made? You're saying that someone weakly organized public enterprises, that you're going to take care of it now. Well, take out the airport, there's this mole of yours and this other one and that's enough. You don't have to deal with anyone else. Therefore, all you do is share Serbia, you only argue with Serbia. You're making your private property here from Serbia. You have all the resources you want without the approval of the institutions. Where are there funds in the budget for this diplomacy that you're going to develop? Where is this position in the Budget Law? So, stay out of the dead end and pull this out of the process, let's sit down and make a deal. Talk to the municipalities for a minute. Go to Novi Pazar. Go to Pryboy. Go to Pryce. Go to Ivanjic. Go to Kruševac for a while, talk to people about the state of the economy. What regions have you developed so far? Everything's been destroyed in the woodland. The famous agricultural well- - 600 acres of fruit, not a kilo, it's all gone. Why aren't your processors working? What about the Buddha? What about "Serbian"? What about the chippers? It's all gone under the ice. You've been running the privatisation now. The best factory and biggest exporter of chips, the chipper in Chačka, doesn't work because you found in the privatisation of the genius you sold to, which after 15 days ended up in prison and lockup. What about forest products, a leading company? The lock. What about the coolers? The lock. What about "Serbian"? What about the slaughterhouse industry? (President: Time. I've got 20 minutes, ma'am. (President: You spoke 10, this is another 10 minutes. Seven minutes and 10 minutes, that's 17, as far as I know math. (President: you have 15 seconds left.) You can finish it. Why are you so...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38233	Mr. Nenad Canak is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38234	I had to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, members of 104th and 105th because we attended this ruthless scene that Ilic Master Velimir called his colleague, with whom he sat in the same government for four years, an ugly name. I had to pick up the phone because it was a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. Master Ilic mentioned the quality of water in Banat. I don't know when Master Ilic last drank water in Banat, because I don't think he drinks water at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38235	Mr. Velimir Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38236	Some people don't need to be called, they answer for themselves. They're all connected. There'll be someone else out there in public. It's all the same team that's fighting to get through, to survive, because they know where they're gonna end up. He can't wait for Canak to come to him. Every day he asks when he'll be there. Godfathers, what's he gonna do without him? (President: Mr. Ilic, please take care of how you address your colleagues. It's not right to bring down the reputation and dignity of the congregation. It doesn't make sense, you interrupted me again, and you're taking away my word again. I'd like to advise Mr. Chank that he was very welcomed by Dule Muft and that he said that he was going to work at the Fair again and that he could also enroll in postgraduate studies, since in six months he managed to finish the genius of the Faculty of Economics at my friend Dulet Mufta's. And there's his friends from the firm. Imagine that genius, the professor's child who came to my friend Doulet Mufte to finish college because he needed it. Right? What would he give if he were a student, for example, at Belgrade University. What would he have given if he had graduated from Belgrade University, if he had mastered the University of Kragujeva. He'd get a break in the eye. Do you know what that is? It's like when the Duke climbs Frusta Gora and looks at how much he sees when he looks at it like this from Novi Sad, with the sleigh that he drives in the snow, and his sights are small, but he wants to get a little bit into the public, to say something, to come up with something. I see and feel, Dinkic is smiling, that we're going to make a ski resort out there somewhere around New Sad. There's a hill there, Dinkic, so make him a ski resort, that a man enjoys himself, because he can't be transported any longer, so he doesn't drive in the streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38237	Mr. Nenad Canak replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38238	In accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – on the work of the National Assembly session, the President of the National Assembly is taken care of, and because of the breach of order at the session of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly can give the measures of warning – the taking of words and distance from the session. You don't do that, Madam President. I don't understand why you don't. Mr. Ilic is a liar with immunity, but that still doesn't mean his lies are less than they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38239	I'm asking you to use appropriate terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38240	I use the appropriate term.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38241	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38242	I can still speak, but I don't want to waste time on Serbian citizens [[Velimir Ilic from the site: I have the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38243	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. You have no right, please, you have changed each other – no, no, the sentences were egal, both on the other side and on the other, and no, nothing. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, you have your word, but please sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38244	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, will now look completely amazing to you, but it seems that we from the LDP were your biggest friends during the previous debate on the Regional Development Act. I have here a stenogram of what we were saying, or I think it would be immodest to quote ourselves now, but I will read only one sentence from half last year, in which it is said, that you will be alone, when you return to parliament with amendments and additions to laws that cannot be applied and that will be our common defeat, not just your failure. What's the problem with this law, because obviously you're back here in parliament because there's a problem? The problem is what the ruling coalition parties had said about the law, which they had previously voted for, avoiding the obvious difficulties followed by its application, explaining that the government would settle it with a regulation at the session itself. Here we need the Prime Minister, Minister Ljajic is needed, and Minister Ugljanin is needed – all those who have practically brought you back here to parliament with a law on regional development. It seems amazing that you expect us to discuss the country's regional development, the regionalisation of Serbia, and completely exclude politics from this job – that is impossible, Mr Dinkic. We can disagree and disagree on many issues, but why are you the only one here answering the question as head of the parliamentary party – about free actions, when many have profited from the free action story next to you? In 2008 elections were won on the mantra that the actions will be worth 1,000 euros, and today we need to talk to you about 1,700 dinars and your ambition to establish equality and fairness in the economy. That's impossible. What economy has succeeded in achieving a part of righteousness? What's the problem with the Regionalization Act? The problem with the Regionalisation Act is that it cannot be effective if it is adopted as an isolated measure. You said yourself here that you advocate decentralisation. The essence of Serbia's problem is, in fact, in absolute control established by the republican government and which does not want to give up. I'm talking about five regions, and before that was seven -- where did two of them get lost? We have NUTS standards. They are very clear, if we talk about EU standards – from three to eight million, from 700 thousand to three million and below 700 thousand. Where did two regions get lost? What kind of law is that? If we rule out politics, because you said here this is statistics – what does the KIM region mean? How will this region work? How will funds directed to the KIM region be controlled? How will the Belgrade region function? Let's say, how will the Council of the Regional Agency for Belgrade function, if the Council holds representatives of local self-government, presidents? It is not the same status as local self-government in Belgrade and municipalities outside Belgrade. They don't have the status of local self-government units. We are talking about three levels of government, i.e. you are publicly standing here for three levels of government - central, middle and local. Then look at what we're going to turn into a Vojvodina? We have here a paper issued on this Regionalisation Act, where the Uzicians protest – they don't like being lost in this Megaregion of Shumadi and Western Serbia, they don't see themselves in it all – it doesn't make sense to them. I guess we should pass a law that people will understand, because they should live in accordance with that law. In addition to telling them we're dealing with statistics, that statistics will affect their lives here. We're making the law now, so that life will be better. What does the Vojvodina look like? Republic districts, circuits, local self-government, city government, and besides that, we have the province government, and then we have, you mentioned, three agencies. Two for Buck, because it takes the Grand Duchy of Hungarians to vote for the law, and none for Srem. If we are exclusively dealing with economic criteria, we will see that Sremu Agency is the most needed, because Srem is the most underdeveloped and has the most difficult problems. There's too much trouble in this, Mr. Dinkic, so this can work. We want it to work, and that's why we suggest that you come here, first, with the whole government, and then together we find a solution to serious problems. For the land within is falling apart and parting. It's true what some say about criticism, we just want to know why it is? Why do you have to be next to 10 trucks arriving from China to FAP? Why do you have to go to Bor and say that's where the melting room is going to be made? Why do you have to be in Kragujevac talking about "full"? Not because you will benefit from it – but these projects are doomed to fail if they depend on your willingness to participate. It's the same as the story of action. It can't be worth 1,000 euros because you want it – it would be great if it were, but it can't be worth it based on our wishes and good intentions. The value of the shares is determined on the market. At the time, it was clear that six public companies planned for privatisation could not bring 30 billion euros as much as needed, so that 15% of that revenue would be singled out and thus reconcile the ambitions of five million people who applied for the distribution of free shares, counting on their 1,000 euros. That was obvious back then. The crisis, meanwhile, is only one excuse for which the action today is worth 1,700 dinars, but it cannot push into another plan – this unacceptable manner in which the country's policy is being built, the ambition of the state to live the life of its citizens. From China trucks arrive here, Mr. Dinkic, because the politicians left the factories there. Everything turned into a devastating populism, and as far as I know in 2001, we closed some banks because we didn't want to be populists, right? We left the Service of Payments for not wanting to be populist, but we said – we want to change this country and change it. How are we going to get to the application of this law? Were local self-government consulted – they say they are not? Does anyone in the government take responsibility for this law – no, except you? You're not enough for the law to realize the effects you mentioned. If we talk about the problems of unbalanced Serbia, what is common in this megaregion of one Užica, one Kragujevac, Pazara, Sjenica, Tutin, Novi Varosha, Priboj, Prepolje, except that in every place live people who do not know why the sky fell on their heads – they think they have sinned against God, so they are condemned to such a life? We must, if we are talking about the organisation of this country, say that the Constitution has been brought to us in a very bad way – that people are excluded from the agreement on their future. That bad constitution is pulling a whole series of problems we're facing today. There's no decentralisation law. You yourself mentioned fiscal decentralisation, which is what we need – and this is very complicated because the country is undeveloped. I'm not sure that many people are willing to take the responsibility that comes from the facts - please choose the maximum rights and agreed obligations, because I think we have developed and absolutely accepted the model of life by which the rights are absolutely used, but those rights are minimally following the obligations that we are absolutely running from. You contributed to that. How can the government compromise the privatisation process, and now we're talking about the division of actions from the privatisation process? The country's privatisation has been compromised. Every entrepreneur in this country today is, as a rule, a suspicious person. In the government of the Republic of Serbia, government leadership met and spoke with the country's first entrepreneurs in 2003. If they pay taxes, if they hire people, if they respect the laws, they should be consulted. If they don't, then it's not enough to run away from them and turn their heads to the other side, as the government does today, but the laws must be applied. You mentioned the Law on Planning and Construction as an excuse for respecting that standard of an area that no one understands. The Law on Planning and Construction has stopped the country's construction industry. We all know that very well, but since it's not part of our party space, we wouldn't be too concerned with the problems that come from that space. That's why you're alone today. Look at the degree of centralization. You are Minister for Privatisation, and for Business, and for Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and for Tourism. You've got a whole series of agencies under you, top secretaries of state. Do you have the rights you need so that you can normally manage that system? How can you deal with the country's serious tourism if it is not the policy in Serbia that would be in line with the preconditions that must exist for tourism to be effective? Economic relations with abroad. It's not the transge-frange economy that we attend by watching our politicians travel around the world. Economic relations with abroad oblige Serbia to accept the system of values on which the successful part of the world rests. Is that what happened? It didn't happen. Today we took $200 million in loans for the Russian Federation budget. How did we get to borrow from others to fill the budget? What do we spend more than we can create? As far as the law itself is concerned, it is not enough to stop at the level of statistical policy, because it is clear that this law is a couple of excellencies political. The effects that arise from it are political. On the one hand, he feeds that past policy that constantly insists on conflict, and conflict issues are found in fear of people. Serbia is divided and intimidated by past experiences. That's why we have this need here to analyze how to call murder seven or eight thousand people? We are citizens of a third or fourth state, and all the previous ones have fallen apart in divisions. If we are passing a law on the regionalization of the country, then it must be clear to the citizens why we are bringing it. We don't bring it here so everyone gets their despoty and their feud. An efficient local self-government, without effective local self-government, Serbia cannot function as a normal country. We need to get the property back to local self-government. It used to be a constitutional obstacle to something like that. There's nothing but political today. That's our problem. If we're talking about those five regions, why do we have five now, and last time we had seven? Did we thus find a way out of the problem we have found ourselves in because part of the parliamentary majority insists on some of its party and narrow interests? We said in advance that there are some regions in Serbia that are reality and should not be bypassed. Why mix Shumadi with Western Serbia? For what? If it's just a question of numbers, then we can't apply those standards against our references, and there are small regions. I said, 150,000 to 700. Let's tell people that. You need to talk to the citizens of Uzic. Not only do you as Mladjan Dinkic, it must be done by people who are involved in politics in that place in order for them to accept it. The Kragujevac, too. These are serious problems and this law will not be applied. Everyone will talk around the corner – it is Dinkic's utopia, for which we voted, and he votes for our utopias and so we will drive as far as we can. Free action law. Mr. Dinkic, there is no justice in privatisation. She needs to be honest, and she needs to be effective. We had an armed privatisation law and a privatisation process for four years, and that spread, here we go in the tenth year. How did we come to believe that the citizens of this country could believe that the state had decided to sell its property without being aware of the fact that it was being sold because it did not know what to do with it, because the state as owner has nothing to look for in the business. It's not true that he can't privatize the company to fail. It can, those who are unsuccessful fail, those who are successful are developing. We have serious problems with that law. We do not want to balance, level the rights of citizens arising from the law on the division of free shares, so we will put the actions of the NIS, the actions of the EPS, the actions of some large, Telekom, in the Action Fund together with the actions of those companies that no one wants to take, which are failed, which are ultimately only engaged, and then people will own actions of the stock fund, not NIS or EPS. You're saying it's not a classic investment fund. It is important for us to be a classical investment fund, to serve economic logic rather than political logic. That's all that matters. A closed stock company with five million shareholders doesn't exist. There may be some reason for it to be closed today to be open tomorrow, but then we will face the new problem facing the countries that organised the voucher privatisation. I believe that this problem is well known to you, the Czech Republic problem. How can one man with his own action manage a system where there are five million other small shareholders? How can he represent himself and the congregation of shareholders? So, you're gonna have to make some investment funds, someone's gonna represent these people. We have introduced another degree in this privatisation that is prolonging the clearing of economic relations in the country. You said it wouldn't be privatised to Belgrade and EPS. We said that we can generally understand the government's need to privatise Telekom, but only on one condition, that the government finally comes out with the strategy of its relationship to public enterprises in the country. Your Deputy Prime Minister, Djelic, lobbys Serbia to join Europe in 2014, and you say - we will not privatise the EPS. There is no electricity in Europe that controls 100% of the electricity market, 30% is the end. Does this mean that we gave up Europe or is it not popular today to say how the EPS will be privatised? Let her privatize. We do not need a company that will take care of Serbia's citizens socially. Let Serbiagas sell its gas at market prices, then people who work in Serbiaagas will have a decent salary, people who work in the EPS will have a decent salary, those who are their co-operatives will get money in time and will not owe them EPS, so we will finally start living from our work, not waiting for when the state will remember us and give us some charity. As far as the law on free action is concerned, I don't understand why it's a basic criterion of justice. In addition to good intentions, he is unrealistic, Mr Dinkic. That's our problem, which he's not quantifiable. How is righteousness measured in the economy? I don't think it's fair that in 40 years we're going to meet the 1989 standards, but that's a fact and there's nothing more we can do with that fact, except to figure it out. We need fast and efficient privatisations, and 15% of the shares belong to employees who worked in these companies. There is a problem with the fact that the whole society has invested in some systems, and these are public enterprises, but this should be dealt with in a clear way and said – there is no way to solve this, except to establish some nominal value that each employee will receive and will be in line with the value of the actions that everyone else gets. For example, for 40 years, members of our families worked in banks that went bankrupt, closed and won't get anything, but they have the right to sign up for these actions, and then they'll be part of it. That doesn't make sense. It is better to realize now that a good intention is unfortunately impossible to achieve than to continue on that path. It is good that you go to the Bath, to Kursumli, and say: We will make sure that we start production. What's the problem, is the fact that the worker consortium took over that factory, because that factory failed, and it collapsed because there's no market, there's no technology, there's no investors. For a new economy, we need a new policy. That's the basic problem you're facing when you're talking about unbalanced development. Why does everything concentrate in Belgrade? Because of the rights Belgrade has. They're minimal. You can see that the Minister of Spatial Planning is insulting the city administration. And your client is in it. He says they were corrupt before, and his party has been in that administration for eight years, and today they're lazy, and they're lazy because they don't want to interpret the laws. In what country does the municipal administration interpret laws? She's applying the laws. In that law, you have the resources to develop normal Belgrade. Through decentralisation, give rights to the municipalities, make a party of the region, your right, but what do you need people for? You can't put a zoo in every city. What was created in Jagodina was created because someone there would be able to do so. The second time we'll be in the despotic mentality that comes from all this. What about all the other environments? Return your rights to local self-government. The Regional Development Act cannot be passed beyond a whole strategy we don't even see coming. That's the basic problem. Too much decentralisation is dysfunctional, really it can't be applied. It can remain a letter on paper, on which you will insist, as you have done in other jobs, to push it, so who can endure longer. This is our best interest as well. If it's our interest, then we have to work together to make that interest come true, because you didn't leave us room for something like that and that's why we can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38245	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38246	I would take the opportunity to try to respond to some of your observations and findings. You've mentioned more than that, and I'll try to follow the order you lied to. You set out to ask the question why five, not seven regions, that is, why have we changed this law? Does politics interfere with the law? Like any other, it interferes with this one. Of course politics got involved, and of course I didn't propose to be seven regions first, nor did I decide to be five. That should be clear and you're absolutely right. I've had consultations with the people we've made a coalition on the basis of which the government was elected and we've agreed that it was a mistake to propose seven, for the reason it caused unnecessary divisions, because it's a statistical regionalization. All those who say this is not political, but statistical regionalisation, are right and it is absolutely crazy that now disputes in Serbia are born because of statistical regionalisation, which is in the function of faster and more even regional development and to create instruments to accept EU donations. What's going on right now in Uzica, of course I'm going to go to Užice, I was planning to go this month and talk to the Uzicians about this law. Of course the opposition is taking advantage of the opportunity to break up where they don't belong. The opposition from the region has begun such activities, some of them have been reported here today. It's the right of opposition, but I think it's very harmful and useless what they're doing, but I'm not going into what the opposition's doing. It is something that is their right, but the fact is this – that now the thesis is used why Užice is no longer the center of some statistical region. No one can be the center of the statistical region. Statistics is statistics. A city may become the centre of the political region of the moment when it is made in Serbia, and if it is made, a consensus to go towards political decentralisation, towards political regionalisation, and then most citizens will decide how many regions we will have, political ones, as middle levels of government and who will be regional centres. Arguments like that – what does the enjoy ending have to do with, for example, the Sword, of course, is as valid as the argument – what do they have to do with the border seats with Romania in Banat with Ojac? They have nothing to do with each other, but they are all in Vojvodina, as are these two areas in central Serbia. With that logic, no one has anything to do with anyone, and it is especially close to our people that your closest enemies are, and then those from Triestenik hate the Kruševljani, the Kruševljani hate those from Paracino, they don't like the Firefighters and the Borans, they don't like the Borans and the Zajčars. If that's how you accelerate these low impulses that exist in some people, I'm not saying it's a rule for all people, then there's no integration in Serbia. That's why I think what the opposition is doing is really harmful, even though I'm not contesting that right. I'll go to Uzice and talk about it. What is the essence of decentralisation, I repeat, is not the political authority that is passed on to regions, but the political authority that needs to be further passed on to local self-governments, municipalities, cities and local communities even if agreed, it legally regulates that the large local communities, which have four, five, eight thousand inhabitants, depend on what the criterion, grow into some kind of smaller municipalities. It is also now a possibility that many countries have taken advantage of. You have a case that even in some New Vienna you have a local community that is not satisfied with the work of the municipality of Novi Becej, and they would also like them to solve issues, say, of Novi Milosevic. That's the kind of thing you have in Serbia. I think it's the policy's job to see what kind of problems there are in the country, not to meet every single request, the individual interest, because then it's a mess, but to find some least common content and find solutions that will allow the government to get as close to the citizens as possible, in a way that gives greater authority to the local. In this system, if it goes towards a system of greater authority to the local, it means property transferred to local self-government, more fiscal powers, but more jurisdiction, then it won't be as important, as it seems to some now, and as the opposition tries to impose in the pleasureous neighborhood who is the center of the region, but it will be important in local self-government, because local self-government will be a source of authority, far greater than it is today. Only the pleasures by themselves, the Priboj by themselves, only the Ariels, will all have their own meaning and will take care of the population who lives there and will have motives. Of course, it also involves direct elections for the presidents of municipalities, or cities, because these people must feel that they have been given the term of office to care for them in an adequate way. So you're right when you say that when you look in isolation you can't catch the whole thing, but in other countries, statistical regionalization preceded the political one and debates were held in other countries. I'm not surprised at this debate or the future debates that will take place, but the purpose is to talk, debate the solution that will be best for the benefit of the citizens. As for free action, I don't think you've fully understood the essence of this change. Therefore, the actions of the EPS, Telekom, NIS and the Aerodrom will not be combined with these actions of the Action Fund, but rather the law stipulates that five groups of actions are essentially issued. The NIS actions are already divided, Telekom actions, Aerodrom actions, EPS actions and united actions by all other companies. So there'll be five groups of free action. When you talk about justice, I just have to remind you that the Law on Free Action, which was adopted in 2008, actually stems from the Law on Privatization of 2001, which you yourself voted for, which, in one part of your provisions, predicted that at the end of the privatisation process, all citizens who did not receive free action, had to get it. Someone had to take care of that area. We arranged it, since the privatisation process was nearing its end and we proposed this solution, so 15% of these companies' actions go free to citizens. Of course, I'm not satisfied with how the privatisation of NIS took place, we've talked about it many times, and I've repeatedly said that the likely market value of NIS is at least four or five times larger than the one agreed at the table, outside the market. It is good that at least the privatisation of Telekom, the second at the value of the public enterprise in Serbia, behind the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, will go through an international tender, in a way that can indeed measure the value of actions on the market. Only when the privatisation of Telekom is completed, which I believe will be made technologically in the same way as the privatisation of Mobtel, which means at the maximum game and at the right price for this really valuable company, will you see what we, as citizens, missed at NIS and how many citizens lost at NIS because there was no competition. In any case, these actions are free, of course their value depends on the moment, under the conditions of the crisis of action of all companies in the world are lower than they were before the crisis, that's facts. No one likes it when stocks fall, but it's also certain that the stocks will eventually grow. There's just one more thing I'd like to notice. I disagree with you that populistism, as you called it in your address, is when trying to solve the problems of some businesses in Serbia in the way that the Ministry of Economy does. FAP has been in a stalemate for many years. No one was interested in his privatisation. Of course it's a good solution that we're going to invest together with the Chinese, because they're serious truck manufacturers and of course it's going to take time to make it work. Of course it's a good thing we made a joint investment in Kragujevac and it's a good thing Fiat got into that investment. Of course, it's a good thing that the previous government went there with those credits to encourage Kragujevac, Bora and Vranja, who at least gave the right effects in two cities, one of them was Kragujevac, because Kragujevac was in 83rd place seven years ago according to data from the Republic Statistics Office. Today there are third, although many lag behind Belgrade, which is first-placed, and Novi Sad, which is second-placed. Kragujevac, however, is in third place in a degree of development, and they were 83. Nor do I think that populism is what is now being done in Bor, and especially not what is being done in Kursumlia, because maybe you're not handling facts, you're partly right when you say that people from the leadership of the former social enterprise "Coopalnik" from Kursumlia have ruined the company, you're right, but it's not true that it was because these companies don't have a market. The "Lesonite", other semi-products of wood have a market, the problem was that these people didn't take care of the interests of businesses, but about their own, some of them were in prison for a while, I don't know what would end up with them, but the general problem is that these people who used to work didn't know or didn't know, or they were working against company interests, and the company has a market. We wouldn't go into this kind of activity to help that company move if nobody wanted to buy their goods. They would never enter that kind of economic adventure. The exclusive condition that these loans for devasted areas are realised is that the goods in the production run have a secure market. Finally, a very short technical remark about the Ministry of Economy is often said that the Ministry of Economy in Serbia has too much competence. I just want to say that I ask you to look at once in your free time, if you're interested, the power of the Ministry of Economy in other countries in the EU, and then you'll probably be surprised, those who didn't see, that the powers of the Ministry of Economy in Serbia are far lower and smaller than most of the economy ministry in Europe. Because economic ministries in European countries, except for these jobs that our economy ministry has, contain both the field of labour and social protection and often the area of energy often, and in some countries they have even combined finances and economies, although it is rare. That's for example. France and it's probably too much. That's why these governments count 15 members, which is why the Ministry of Economy has more jurisdiction. There's often these criticisms, so I'm taking the opportunity to say that logically... I forgot, and internal trade, since economic relations with foreign countries without internal trade are illogical separation, so that in all developed, even medium-developed EU countries, trade is in the economy ministry, internally combined with the outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38247	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38248	I'd start with this last thing you said. I just said you're a general without an army, even though you like to act like the Prime Minister. Your powers are out of line with the amount of work you've taken over. In a document here in the Assembly over a year ago, we proposed to the ruling majority to discuss a change in the concept of the government organized, with the ambition that we have 12 ministries. In one such government of rights that would accompany the person who is in your place would be much greater than the rights that follow you. Just because you don't have adequate rights, you're trying another way to solve problems. There's no need for you to go to the Uzice after you've passed the law. She'll enjoy the paradigm. What the Uzicans said probably means a lot of others. I am sure most parliaments cannot define politically reasonablely, to articulate the difference between the statistical region and Srem, Banat, Backa, Shumadija, Sandzak. It's an objective fact. We can't ignore that fact right now. We never talked about it in our society. I think we were very clear when we said that we were left with the possibility of working together to solve some of the systemic problems of this society. First of all, they would be more efficient in solving, which is quite certain, which is in our interest, because tomorrow we see ourselves as a government in a normal country where there will be a lot of prejudice that we need to face. The population is, Mr. Dinkic, when you go on a partial basis and solve problems where problems are created by people who are not aware of the fact that they are themselves part of the problem. The government cannot because someone comes out and blocks the way to decide to help him produce the lesonite, and we have great members at the Russian Christur who made themselves, a small lesonite factory and are trying to solve the problem of the production of lesonite in Serbia, since most of it is being imported. If the government starts dealing with it, you will end up as Bogoljub Karic, who beat up salad in front of the Assembly. That's funny and it's populism. Don't do that. Your government needs to tell society the truth. We're in a race with billions of people on the planet. Everybody's running forward, we're going back. We're doing a privatisation review. That truck that came in from China was a truck that found FAP in Priboy just because politics came out of the factory. We need to see what happened to us first, so one perspective factory failed. What happened, so he doesn't do "Gossa" in the Smederian Palace? What happened, so there's a whole Krushevac, what happened and then the chemical industry "Zupa", the car factory over there, what happened in the King, how we're going to solve that problem. We need a strategy, one vision. If we are talking about regional development, look at you through statistical regions to solve the problem of Serbia's undevelopedness (President: Time. ) and to avoid the fact that the problem is caused by the centralisation of the government in Serbia, which on the one hand solves it, and on the other hand creates it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38249	Time, bring the end. Thank you. Mr. Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38250	Just to tell the truth, I didn't go to Kursumli when the workers blocked the road. On the contrary, when they came, I said that under such conditions I did not want to go, because I am not someone of any kind of blackmail I suffer, but I went to Kursumli when they left the road because it was a poor municipality, below 50% of the Republic average, and because the people who did the analysis came to the conclusion that this "Lesonite" had a market and was worth investing in, especially because it employs a large number of people. I agree with you that there is no way that if someone is blocking the road, cutting off a lamppost or doing anything to prevent public life, getting out to anyone, that's the wrong way. I couldn't agree more. I didn't go there myself. I want to take the same opportunity to say, you mentioned various factories here. For some, you're wrong. "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka is currently the best car factory in Serbia. "Gosa" from Smederevska Palanka is one of the largest exporters from Serbia. It's an example of a good privatisation. As far as the royal factory is concerned, you're right. We had a bad buyer from Ukraine, which is why the contract was broken. However, I think that the general car factories in Serbia have a perspective, because after "Gossa", "Brothership" from Saturday should now get a good strategic partner, and we will do everything we can to help both the Royals and Nislims. I don't see it as populism, but if this industry produces products that can be sold outside Serbia, then it certainly needs to be as a minister in charge of the economy to help it happen, which is not a matter of one day, one month, sometimes not a year, but it also seemed that "Gosa" would never find a partner, so she found a good partner. Now, when you ask other car manufacturers, such as – Simens, what is this car that Gosa manufactures, the mailbox, the freight wagon, they say is the best in Europe. "Brothership" was also a bad privatisation in the sense that the bad owner bought "Brothership". He gave it back to the state. It was then mentioned as a bad example. Why is the state taking over from a private company? We took over exclusively to help these people, because we thought that "Brothership" could find in some perspective a good partner and that it would stand on its feet in the future. This will happen in the coming months, as they are interested in another Slovak company, as the Slovak company also privatised "Gossa" in Smederjevska Palanca. This other company is called Tatranka Wagon, even stronger than this first one, and they have a contract with German railways, Austrian, so they will have a secure car placement to work in Subotica. When you mentioned the car factories, I'd like to give you some information on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38251	Ms. Natasa Micic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38252	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure and Rule 104, actually using the right to replication. I recognized myself as a member of the opposition, and I'm a Uzician until the minister gets to Uzice. The key argument made today by the minister to reduce the number of regions is the number of inhabitants. It is true that the recommendation, which we adopted, is this NUTS 2, a European recommendation of 800,000 to three million. But you yourself know that, firstly, seven regions met that criterion. Secondly, it's just a recommendation. In Italy, which you mentioned in your first address, the population gaps go up to 90 times. That's probably familiar. Now, it's not some evil blood between western Serbia and the Woodland. We just want to let you know that you've connected what's incompatible. There are two postulates, two imperatives, whether it's statistical or administrative regionalisation. The first imperative is to respect the principle of efficiency and other legitimacy. This principle of legitimacy implies that you must keep in mind geographical, natural, but also economic, social, social, historical components that determine those regions. We've never had anything in common with Shumadia. And at the time of the Turks we were Drinska Banina, they were Danube. We were also the Užičko nahija, we were the Zlatiboran cut. There's never been a case in history that we were connected to Shumadia. That's not good for the Woodland, not for the Western region, not for Sandzak. Do you know why? Some of the statistical regions, too, will be difficult from the very collection of data, from analysis, from different needs. As Western Serbia is based on livestock, tourism and Sandzak, it was more natural to attach the entire Sandzak to western Serbia. They'd also meet these NUTS criteria. In particular, the implementation of projects will be difficult and conflicts will be between the regional representatives themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38253	Time. Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38254	Let me repeat, really, since the Ubiquitos have asked that question, I think we need to bring down any tensions. This is what you say, but it also says that even the people who live in Alibunar have nothing to do with the people who live in Somboro. Those of the Deliblat caves with these who are in Podunavlje, Vojvodina. However, the essence of this law is that regional developmentists will be regional development agencies. The efficiencies have their regional development agency, which was established before this law was passed and it will be the bearer of development throughout the region, as the Royals also have their own agency, as Novi Pazar has its own agency. In that area, the three agencies will carry development and regional development in the region. It does not matter if it is located in a larger or smaller region, but rather whether it is a regional agency that carries development. Otherwise, you can never make that logic to make everyone happy. It is quite clear that when you have a region that has more inhabitants, it is still less likely to conflict, because still people live within a region, even if it was two million people, than when you have 800,000, so someone is complaining why it is not within the same region. If you were in place in the government, you'd hardly find it, especially at this stage where statistics are concerned, some solution that minimizes tensions. Tenzies will only be here if they are politically encouraged. I understand, in essence, that the opposition will politically stimulate tension. There's really no reason for tension, because I'm saying, then you should create tensions in whatever end of our country. If we have politicians who are prone to creating such tensions, on this geographical basis, then we would come up with a situation where our former Yugoslavia was also found. I really hope that we've been through some experience and that these things won't happen and that people won't play with these ground-floor things, where I don't mean you, I mean the opposition from your neighborhood that raised the issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38255	National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word. Tell me the base of the call? Advertising Rules of Procedure? There's no replica. There isn't. This was really just one explanation. Nothing vague or offensive. Mr. Kasalovic, you've got the word. Here you go. I'll give you my word when Mr. Kasalovic is done, injuring the Rules of Procedure who wants to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38256	Dear Presidents, honourable Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the objectives that are to be achieved by law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act are, above all, to obtain five statistical regions more uniform by population, to form a minimum number of regional development agencies, to abolish certain state regional agencies and to use EU pre-accession funds more effectively. In terms of importance, regional policy, above all, also tells the fact that one of the EU's priority objectives is to assist the lagging regions, regions below 75% of the EU average, then rural regions in decline. In the period from 2000 to 2007, significant funds were also spent for regional policies through a number of funds, and they amounted to around 370 billion euros. A good example of the functioning and definition of regional policy was Poland, among other things, which managed to withdraw 70 billion euros during that period. Respecting the importance of this area and the proposed solutions, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support, in principle, the draft law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act, above all, in terms of the overall sustainable socio-economic development of the Republic of Serbia. I want to take advantage of the opportunity when this topic is on the agenda to express certain views of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, the evaluations and certain statistics. The regional development strategy of the Republic of Serbia treats the period until 2012 and provides for a number of jobs to achieve three declared objectives. First of all, raising regional competitiveness, reducing regional imbalances and poverty, building institutional regional infrastructure. The document really best illustrates why it is necessary to approach this issue and problems which are primarily seen in the lagging of the entire regions of the Republic of Serbia, then to increase unemployment, not to recognise what the comparative advantages of the region are, and particularly demographic problems, which have caused certain parts of Serbia to experience emptying of the population, and other parts, however, complete overpopulation. It's good, of course, that at the moment when we talk about these laws, we remind ourselves and realize that since 2007, we have been able or haven't done enough about it. It is obvious that it is very careful to enter this process of realising regional development, given the problems that are recorded and citizens' expectations, but indeed if we want to move things primarily economically, in the right direction and stronger intensity, it will have to go much faster in this process. Although this is primarily about the economic aspect of regionalization, I don't think this process should be separated from the fundamental decentralisation of our country, because regionalisation and decentralisation are, in fact, a planetary process like globalisation at this point. The mentioned strategy only partially analyses the high centralisedness of our country which has led to really big problems, i.e. the situation that half of the industry, half of the population and everything else is located in two major cities – Belgrade and Novi Sad, and that some of the remaining regions in this regard almost have no perspective. Here, above all, I would like to present some information available to the public in the means of public informing the previous days, data from the Republic Development Office, which say that GDP per capita in Belgrade in 2008 was as much as 16 times higher than in Toplici County, and earning four times as much as in the Jablani County, with as much unemployment as in the capital. From Piroth, by three and a half decades, the population decreased by 28.5%, but this is a general feature of migration, especially from border areas and rural areas, and I want to say that this is unfortunately also Vojvodina, which is treated by the more developed region, or the province in our country, while in the same period, in Belgrade, the population increased by 32%, and the relationship between Serbia's most developed and underdeveloped district is 1:7. Such a situation is not really sustainable and needs to be changed as soon as possible. In our opinion, it is one of the instruments that is applied in the world as well, primarily decentralisation and deconcentration of government. Of course, we heard today, but in public opinion and there is a certain concern about decentralisation because of the clearly negative experience with KIM, and that fear is justified, but it really doesn't mean that the centralised concept is superior and that it needs to be kept. On the contrary, approaching citizens’ decision-making, where problems and solutions are best recorded, will lead to everyone participating in the process and making the best decisions possible. Of course, there is no need to interfere with this process and local self-government, which should be encouraged and strengthened by this process and be one medium level of government, or one link with government and government policy, but in this sense, it is definitely and finally necessary to ensure financial independence and property and to consider a concept that should not be monotypanic, in the sense that it does not respect the economic development of these local self-governments, the number of inhabitants and some development priorities in this regard. Decentralisation and regionalisation are certainly processes that can strengthen the unity of government and help policy enforcement, that we get the situation that central authorities do not always blame local authorities for failures and vice versa, that local authorities not only participate, but also be responsible for the development of their environments. There, of course, it is necessary to avoid the traps of creating local powermakers, local elites and rulers, which is characteristic of the Republic of Serbia, and such a concept certainly denies the essential concept of decentralisation and regionalisation. Of course decentralisation is a process that requires permanent adaptation, requires people, time and which extends the consensus of all relevant structures in society. According to us, it can primarily be achieved by exchanging views and opinions, not by digging into some blocks for and against. If everything we do, and I am convinced that it is, in the interests of the citizens, then it is necessary to respect both the demands and opinions of these citizens and their representatives and to enter this business with clearly expressed criteria and to answer all objections and the dilemmas of the citizens and their representatives. Because without accepting such a process, i.e. creating a belief that something is imposed and introduced, and not, in fact, building up, there will be unnecessary resistance, uncertainty, and certainly not good at any reform. The SPS-JS Parliament Club expects that the government is really ready to communicate in one such way with all citizens and their representatives, among others, and with those of us today, above all with the Zlatibor County and, in one such way, to discuss and remove all dilemmas in the very beginning. It is not only about the formation of statistical regions, but it is, in our opinion, the essence of building and building an exacted regional policy, projects and action plans. In that sense, we think that the government really needs to come up with a process and apply it in terms of education, primarily, of people who will participate in various bodies in the formation of regional policies. In particular, I think it's very important when it comes to local self-government because we really don't have enough people in them who are trained in modern skills to realize and participate in projects in this way. Of course, there is a need to make sure that not everything can be done in the center, and to strive for successful regionalization. That is why we think that this education really needs to be done more, and in this sense it is certainly necessary to look at the possibility of the full success of the very important Government's programme for balanced regional development, whose budget, as we heard, is 100m euros. Only in such a concept will the central, regional and local structures be able to have one partner relationship and thus achieve a complete optimal effect. When it comes to three legislative proposals, I won't spend much time, since my colleagues will talk more about it. The Law on Metrology is a new law and technical law, as we have heard, and it aims primarily to comply with domestic legislation, i.e. the legal system, and to meet certain requirements for membership in the World Trade Organisation and the European Union. It will also eliminate certain conflicts of interest that exist in the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, which has been at the same time certified, but has itself controlled these criteria. What is important to us is that citizens will receive one certainty about the full accuracy and security of the criteria that are in commercial use, because they will only be able to use those that are adequately certified by the competent authority and we have heard that it concerns all those criteria such as scales, weights, taximeters, vehicle speed criteria, alcoholometers and others, and we believe that this is good for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right of Free Action and the Money Compensation, which citizens make in the privatisation process and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for Privatisation, I would like to say that, above all, our Parliament club will welcome and support all efforts and attempts to ensure that the proposed amendments are guaranteed by law and to all other citizens who have so far failed to do so, the right to free action without compensation. The amendments and additions these two laws are partly mutual and conditional. As a conclusion, I would like to say that we believe and we are confident that the proposed amendments, as the proponent himself stated in the explanation, will ensure the equality of all citizens and end the privatisation process, and I expect my colleagues to discuss these two laws more closely in the process, and the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs' club, Unity Serbia, will in principle support these two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38257	The Rules of Procedure are advertised by Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38258	Your Honor, Madam President, I've been looking for a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure prior to the presentation of my colleague Kasalovic, but I thank you for giving me your word now. I volunteered on the same basis as my colleague Natasa Micic. She called for Article 104. I'd like to say a few words to Mr. Secretary about his last presentation. So, if you're putting on an opposition that causes dissatisfaction for citizens in the Zlatibor County, above all in Užica, Prepolje, Novi Varosha and Priboj, I think it's a very ignorant defense. I know you're still for those seven regions, but for these five. In the time my party has clearly and openly I will say why five regions are now being brought in, and you would have to remember that your colleague of the party, the head of the Zlatibor County, is an honorable and honest man, with whom I am merely different in political beliefs, resigned because of this law. Although you hid for a month and tried to say that he resigned for personal reasons as Governor Jelasic – no, he is a man of integrity, he wants to live in Užica, to get out before his citizens. After all, if we consider that the municipalities of almost all these municipalities that I have listed are my own, there are council members who represent the citizens, if you don't believe them, why don't you call a referendum in these municipalities before the adoption of this law, and see what the opposition and your party colleagues say to you, as the former head of the district, which is of course from G17, is therefore not an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38259	Mr. Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38260	Mr Markicevic, there is no referendum being called even when a list of the statistical population is being held. This is the law on statistical regionalization. Anyone who wants out of the opposition to make this a policy has the right to do so and we will debate it where it belongs, when there are stands and other things. Don't make the law on statistical regions a political story. This does not mean that if we have five regions that are statistical that Serbia will have five political regions tomorrow. I will not determine that, nor will you, but a public debate that will be broad, which cannot end within a short period of time. Most citizens will determine whether they will go in that direction and how many administrative regions we will have. If we need to debate politically about it, it's time for a debate. This is your right and I respect it, but it's really a distraction from the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38261	Mr. Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38262	I called back during a discussion with Minister Dinkic. Examples I mentioned were just examples and it wouldn't be good if someone thought we had something against the employees of Kursumlia or Kruševec. The population, Mr. Dinkic, is in fact saying – we have estimated that the lesonite industry has a perspective. I think together we should define a country development strategy, so let's say -- our concept is to reduce the dependence on goods from imports, on the other hand, to raise the performance of our export economy, so we can say where the funds are for that. Not in the Republic budget, but somewhere in the world. In order for these funds to come to terms, we need to create an environment that will be prestigious, desirable. It's the government's obligation. Otherwise, if we start arbitration, it's pure pulsism. Maybe the lesonite can be made somewhere else, but they're out of luck and those people didn't get to you. That's the essence of our problem. This law, as much as you have a good will, cannot give the results we need. If we disagree that the vision of this country's development cannot be a monopoly of a ruling coalition, they are temporary. We can't live from today until tomorrow. Let's see what the performances of this country we're talking about today and what we need to take care of. Who in that country deals with economics? Let the economy deal with the economy. The state creates conditions for the economy to come to terms and thus affect citizens' standards. As much as you like, Mr. Dinkic, you can't hire every man in this country. You didn't leave those people without a job. Serbia's inability to change eventually faced us with such devastating consequences. The fact that people in Uzic can't understand that law you're talking about, which your party member can't understand, is an objective problem. Tomorrow, people will not be able to understand some law that we are going to propose and that has no chance of passing unless it is an expression of our common will and our efforts to bring fundamental laws into a normal dialogue with clearer objectives. I'm not arguing with the ruling coalition that she wants the best for this country. I don't mean that. That's another part of the opposition thinking, but I think the result is lagging out, because you can't want the best of the country, and you can rule out all those potentials that are linked exclusively to the ruling coalition. We have to say that if we develop a car industry, then that car industry should have a market, it should have its customers. There should be some order in the country. Stability. Security. That's why it's all populism because it's short of breath. By itself, populism is not bad if it is a component of one strategy, but if we bring it all down to – folk, then we will end up as our estherada ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38263	The word has Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38264	I have to say, because I think you have a one-way delusion, the market is the most perfect mechanism for directing the economy, but in all countries in the world and the most marketable undeveloped areas of the market cannot develop. It's called a market defect in theory. Market defects exist in some areas. One is in the area of underdeveloped areas. That's where the state has to get involved. If the state does not interfere with Kursumli, Žitorajje, Trgovišče, there is no one to interfere, because the market leads to that if there is 20 times more unemployment there, if there are five times lower wages, that these people are going to Belgrade. It's the market. The market will bring these people to Belgrade. In all countries, in developed countries from Germany to Italy and other countries, it is mixed and must interfere. In this sense, a pure economic liberal theory does not apply under the conditions of undeveloped areas. That's why this law works and needs to be passed. The state must and should interfere, and that should propagate even the one that is general for the liberal economy, because in this segment it does not work, because it makes people harder to go where they are better, and that is Belgrade, and then there is no one in Kursumlia and we have a problem to ask ourselves over 20 years – where we were when people were leaving.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38265	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38266	In your explanation, Mr. Dinkic, it is the essence of the problem. It's not the government of the state. I can agree with you that the state should deal with this problem, but I'm sorry, and we're a state. This parliamentary group here is a radical state, and the DSS is a state, and the Chamber of Commerce is a state and a businessman is a state. It's not just the government of the state. You need to run those processes. That's not controversial. It's a government task, but if you run that process with the ambition that we're given answers, there'll be no success. Why can't he go bankrupt on General Motors and not go bankrupt on Pribo or the flag on Kragujevac? I don't want that to happen, but as long as we don't agree on some simple truths here, the government that equates itself with the state will be unsuccessful in its intention to make that country better. You can't do it yourself. That's the point. This doesn't have much to do with the liberal market. The market in Serbia can't be liberal for a long time, because this liberal market has not become a liberal decree, but people, seeking their rights, have also assumed the responsibilities that these rights follow, among other things, and the responsibility that they can fail in one day, and when they ask for the state's help that they have to return it. The American state made $52 billion last year based on investments in the American economy, right, the loans they gave? When we ask the Prime Minister why you gave 190m euros in loans to public enterprises, and then they didn't return it, he says it's our policy, there would be people out of work. That's not how it works. It's populism. When we talk about free action, then we need to tell people that the law is being passed in order to close a historical story, not that at the end of that historic story, which was most devastating, we give people what they couldn't find anywhere in their life. We want the stock fund to be an effective fund, not a fund that works beyond all rules, an exemplar. That's the problem and you know it very well. Since I have another minute, I'd like to tell you the essence of what we pointed to last time. You can't make this law happen on your own. If you're talking about statistical regions, you need an economy in that. Was the economy involved? Does any businessman feel the need to talk to you about it? We went from one trench to another, so now there are no cordon and democratic opposition, but in one trench there are unions, in another trench there are businessmen, in the third trench of the opposition, in the fourth trench of power. It's great if you can solve the Bor problem, but I remember Zoran Djindjic and in 2001, we were there together when the then Prime Minister told them he was coming with two information, one is good, the other is bad. People who want to hear the information first were looking for a bad one. It was bad – your baser can also fail as others in the world fail. What is good – 150 municipalities in Serbia live past the base in Bor. Let's see how they live, see if that kind of life can come true here. Stop those utopias. Look for support for something like that, and we'll figure it out. If you continue that path, you will be lonely, you will return to the Assembly again with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38267	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38268	The conversation on today's topic I could call - Mr Dinkic instead of Nijeo writes the book "The Will for Power", but I would ask Mr Dinkic not to comment on what I was saying in the way he did while colleagues Velimir Ilic spoke, so he told him that he was speaking nonsense, his colleagues were assessing Cedomimir Jovanovic as if you didn't understand and don't read the facts, etc. and so on. I expect the minister who comes here to know how to talk, not to hold the monologues the way he does, when he calls on the Privatisation Agency and the directors of the centre that make it, where in a form of monologue, he issues orders for what we are publicly represented as not competent and responsible. Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you that there is a discrepancy that many have spoken of, not only against your wishes and strengths to cover everything, but there is one fundamental discrepancy between this book here called the Constitution, where Article 26 prohibits slavery, and among other things, the Law on the Privatisation Agency for the Action and the Action Fund, the free division of actions, and so on, the law that speaks of being very rich here, and that the number of slaves has increased, and that the number of slaves means a great number of enemies. Let no one blame me on the rudeness of the words "slaves" because they are unemployed here, which are the product of these and these laws, passed in your direction from 2000 to today, and that this army of unemployed is a real example of slaves for which the Constitution looks like a butterfly tie on a naked man. When you allow someone to lose their jobs, without being able to hope to get that job, you may not realize what hopelessness you leave for younger generations, and I am one of many, the mother of three adult children whose son was at one funeral last week. A very dissatisfaction welcomed me from the path of the story that a friend of his age, in 1983, was born, killed, thrown out of a window, leaving behind a wife and child. He worked at a bank in Novi Sad. He graduated from college and was transferred from the IT technology department to the credit department. He got a job calling the debtors, threatening them and begging them to repay the loan. Of the nine young educated people, seven of them were sick, two were left to work, knowing that they themselves were living off such loans, and one of them had fallen into depression and had done this tragic act. My son said there were a lot of young people at the funeral. One comment, I don't want to say what they think is a solution, because I don't think so, I say when such things happen, all of us who want to change needs even more agile, even more appropriate to take and do this job, and he said, "No, Mom, when you, our parents, privatise all the factories and leave us at the mercy and mercy of the bosses who have a profit ahead of everything, what do we, your children, remain?" Believe me, I've been thinking about whether this topic in which you've just gathered a part of your jurisdiction really deserves to be discussed in detail or whether this is the best evidence, really drastic, and I apologize to many of you for using it as an illustration of the success of privatisation. He is very difficult in his illustration and is not an exception that confirms the rule that privatisations are mostly successful, on the contrary. Mr Dinkic, you who think you can be a minister of business, the competent minister of bankruptcy when we have discussed bankruptcy, the competent minister of regionalisation, who is in fact the building of party infrastructure for a party who wants state money to cross the censorship, you who attribute to yourself the right to, now calling the action fund an earlier action fund, continue to privatise in this country, you who are responsible for tourism, for employment, for the Institute of Measures and Valuable Metals, you have therefore brought us together in a joint discussion of four laws, of which two can be considered together, but regionalisation and mtrology certainly couldn't essentially go their own way with each other. But they go together because you are the minister who is rightly the reason that Mr. Cvetkovic can be called the winner of the award for a secondary role, and that what is not in your jurisdiction is in the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. Yesterday, in response to a journalist, I joked myself about the possibility that the president is now proposing a governor, and in fact, today is the real explanation why we're waiting two months for a new governor. What you didn't take to decide, to ask yourself, here's the president. Now to prove how much you care about yourself and your parties, I'm just going to say two illustrations of the law. Yes, it was unusual for the Finance Committee to propose to the governor at the time when the Committee is involved with the opposition you consider necessary evil and icaban, and perhaps it can be logical for the governor to propose the president. That institution should change politics and not depend on man. That you do not aim at employment, development and that you do not care about these black scarfs and those children's tears, which you commit to an economic crime, says that you have put this law - that you are wondering who will be elected to the Council of the Shareholders' Fund, who will decide on privatisations, that you have deleted the supervision of the Agency's work, that you will also determine the salaries of members of the Council, but that there is nowhere to be seen which members of the Council, which the minister proposes, corresponds to. Yes, the government chooses and resolves. But the government is listed in some specific jobs, when you want to share responsibility for the way and methodology of the sale of shares that this Fund will sell, but on direct responsibility -- not a single word in both of these laws that treat one of those same matter. What did you write us? That once a year, the government submitted a report to the National Assembly. Mr Dinkic, how successful it is we have seen and by whom the State Auditing Institution reports to the Assembly. This Assembly, which you run, as such a coalition, has been amended -- that it works more efficiently, that we speak shorter, that we have a agenda of 94 and 92 points, but not a way to consider how money is spent by the State Auditing Institution. So another beautiful flower decorated in law, where you don't actually have a responsibility to the citizens for how you spend money. Why does it matter? In this State Audit report, they have an explanation that personally you, now as a paradigm of a man who has many powers and competences under him, someone who knows the economy, you have to know practical things, even though you have never worked in a business organisation, but you have to learn it in the government, you cannot give it to the Institute for Economic and Social Research in Belgrade 5,900,000 dinars as half of the agreed sum to make you an analysis, a publication of the forecast on the Serbian labour market, without indicating it as an advance in accounting documentation. So, pay up front, you didn't get any documents that this research was done, now aside from what the National Employment Service should do, etc. When you're told that you gave your mom 10 million and something, you say no, that's not true. Mr. Dinkic, we still have a responsibility to what we say, because to the stars, you've been going to say, ever since Virgil, you must know that. The Institute for Economic and Social Research, however enigma is, has data on the Internet -- that the deputy chairman of the Management Board, Mrs Mirosnka Dinkic, who was also the director of the Department of Human Resources and Social Policy from Belgrade. We had to get this information indirectly when you were working on a project in collaboration with Ineka of Bratislava, with the financial support of the Government of the Republic of Slovakia, etc. So 5,900,000 is a drop in the sea, but it's a paradigm of the minister's relationship that even dares to directly transmit the aesthetics, as he's called here, and that's not hard to find today -- money to his mother. And you're talking to us about the general good, and you're ready to go out on occasion with regretful statements that you didn't see any mistakes in the moment, and you saw them later. It's a little something after all. This proves how illegal you are doing, what your former friend announced in 2007 about the abolition of the Action Fund, Mr Milić Ivanovic, the then expert on all changes in financial services laws, derivatives, market etc. What you promised him in 2007, here's what you do today. How? By shutting down the Action Fund, for which you have not provided us with one single piece of information -- how he did business, how much damage he did, and how well he worked. I say -- it didn't work well, because we have controversial privatisations in terms of the time of carrying out certain packages, where the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund had the jurisdiction to determine the time, price and package, where Mr. Cvetkovic Vladislav came out, he washes his hands of it and says, we only informed them, and they chose the methodology, where Mr. Gracanac defends himself vice versa, and we don't care how much you and when you worked for each other, one against the other, but for someone third, and not for the citizens. It is important to us that you have passed such laws, applied them almost 10 years ago and that as a result of such laws, we have deindustriousisation, payment deficits, current balance deficits and that we have taken 180m euros from the IMF today to maintain foreign reserves. Those are the results. You started an agency of money from the budget, while it was useful, and then it was drawn from the jurisdiction of the Republic Government, the budget, the Ministry of Finance, but not from your personal influence, because you hold a college once a week. You tell the directors of the center, then when you're interested, how to act. So, the rule of your rule of rule for 10 years is that there is no roof law on subsidies, on the criteria for how these subsidies are obtained, who can approach them without asking for a membership card, not to be a member of G17 or any other party, but that something called the legal system works in this country. Your credit is that and it's much bigger than those 5,900 or 10 million and something you've transferred illegally, and it's not a mistake of an accountant who didn't write it as an advance, it's a picture of someone, so what Andric said - there's no minor theft of justice. Because whoever's prone to something, I can only imagine, keeping in mind how Moby 063, what all the connections were about the National Savings Bank and everything else, what one day we're going to have a chance to see. What's terrible is that when you shut down SMEK, that fund that helped export, we didn't get any reports of how successful it was, or which people you're going to transfer to some new funds to fund exports by merger. The moment you shut down the agencies for small and medium-sized enterprises, establishing these for party support, we also don't have a report on how successful they are. Because you're doing it without punishment, it's getting better for you now. No one punishes the fact that some mothers cry for a child who is weak and retreated, that the ranks are still the ones who want to go long, that young people have to endure the mobbing at work and that under the voluntary departures you are left to work outside the physical and mental limits of power, just as the Constitution and Article 26 do not interest you. You think your reign will last forever. I am telling you that the arguments that stand in this law here, where the Privatisation Agency, which after paying fees to financial and legal consultants and covering all costs – change, the rest of which was paid into the budget, over which no one had control, is a way of misusing the authority you're doing 10 years back. I'm saying in principle, how much did you pay for your success in the privatisation while Bubalo maimed those 5%, who and how much? Are we ever going to find out -- who are very rich on these privatisations, and not in the proceedings, where you didn't just break up the contracts, when they were dealing with it, Mrs. Branka here knows perfectly well, the conditions for breaking up these and such privatisations, but always on the first step of your own, your consultants and your houses provided the profits -- in the same way that you and in the story of the free share you first provided those who would participate in this business to receive compensation for that job, that it would not pay the citizens, which is a lie. They will pay directly, but through the budget, not directly, citizens, but through the budget, because you didn't teach them to do anything out of well-being and celebration, but only from a pure profit called profit. Why did you lift the board of directors over the Agency's work? So you're the only one who won't answer. Why does Mr. Tadic and these 126 hands allow you to do so? That's my question for them and for you. You're introducing a council whose members you're proposing. The minister proposes members of the council as well as the people responsible for bankruptcy. He doesn't answer to anyone. Why do you keep quiet about it? It's very interesting. What is interesting, the stretching of the criteria, when you perform various sales models, as it has been done through the Action Fund that is abolished, where there are a number of problems, from "Evening news" and beyond, is very interesting because it is obvious how much each of you individually puts its interest in some business and us as citizens of Serbia and as MPs is absolutely not possible to control the legal and rational and charging of all costs, but also the spending that is being done there. For citizens, it's interesting information, for example, that you. In the Privatisation Agency you have spent no less than 2m euros for forced liquidation, and directly from the privatisation agency you funded a free action project that did not cost less than 5m euros. Mr. Ciric is not there, and I wish he were, will remain in the stenogram, tell him, I ask him, as well as you – in the systemization that you were obliged to bring in by the end of the year 12 maternity pregnant women you listed to be fired, but that is why Mr. Ciric's father, who only a year earlier left the Agency, received a severance payment after several months at the Agency in a fictitious workplace. Am I lying or is there a file on this? In that same agency, which no one controlled, which didn't account for anyone, in 2008, you obtained a number of official "passat" brand vehicles, of which only one is driven for the Agency's needs. You act as a savingser because the rest of the cars are left to you, and at the same time because of the lack of a vehicle necessary for the Agency's work for months, rental of a car from one car rental agency, and on the Agency's payroll, in the places of special advisors and external advisors of directors are held by persons from the G17 plus who do not have many touch points with the Agency's business.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38269	Twenty minutes. Thank you. People's MP Velimir Ilic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38270	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. I believe that this Parliament has been defiled, injured, and I ask that in future such people, who are heard of very serious accusations, and I ask that the minutes of this session, or the stenogram be given to the prosecutor. This is about a very serious criminal, criminal action, serious pests towards the Republic of Serbia, to reconsider this. I ask you, for the dignity of this House, that you do not bring these ministers to us in the future, let the government hold them there as an icaban, and put them in the cabinet of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38271	People's MP, I warn you that by pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure you cannot violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that you believe that verbal violence of any kind is allowed in the National Assembly Hall, so I ask you to carefully weigh your position on what you wish to indicate that it was done as a violation of the Rules of Procedure during the session. National MP Susana Grubjesic. Please sign in. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38272	Mrs. Comic, this has gone too far. You allow someone who was a former minister, a capital minister, a capitalist, someone whose associates are now under investigation by the prosecution and whose associates, like Milenko Sarancic and others, will end up in prison, will be allowed to call someone a criminal. That's inadmissible. To begin with, I will suggest that an alcoholic be made in this assembly and that those who do not pass the alcotest cannot attend the sittings. I ask you to stop this debate, to take a break, and to keep talking normally after the break, and for those who need alcohol to do so now, to get a little better, to get into this congregation normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38273	National MPs, you are under obligation to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. (Velimir Ilic, from the site: Replica. The People's MP Velimir throws away, looks for a replica. You have no right to a replica. People's MP, if you've recognized yourself in the allegations of the People's Parliament as a person who needs alcohol, then you have no right to reply. (Velimir Ilic, from the post: Former Minister, Capital. ) The former minister, MP, is not an insult and you cannot get the right to reply unless you believe you were not a minister. You have no right to a replica, People's Messenger, Velimir Ilic. The MP pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I do because I do not interrupt the MPs who consider it the freedom of speech to call anyone a criminal. National MP Velimir Ilic was interrupted and warned that verbal violence would not be tolerated and was not given to him or refused to continue. Now you want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38274	I repeat, the dignity of the Assembly has been questioned here, Article 104. I'm going to ask those responsible from the congregation to actually make an alcoholic. Now. I accept your suggestion, ma'am, and let me inform you...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38275	People's MPs, you can't ask to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, agreeing with the MP who asked to be made an alcoholic. Thank you. National MP Simo Vukovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please remind us of the provisions that say that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure cannot be repeated. I ask the MPs not to communicate in the O.R. but to ask for a word. National MP Simo Vukovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38276	Dear Vice President, I would like to appeal to Article 27. For the second time today, during the debate, we are warning, joining practically the protests of the head of my parliamentary group, to spare us these drinking discussions or discussions that are more similar to society in front of the drinking agricultural cooperative. So I can understand that Mr...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38277	Please, MP, that when you want to explain that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, you do not do this injury at the same time and that during the session of the National Assembly you do not express yourself negatively about anyone, especially people who are not there, whether they are in the farming community or at the market. I remind all MPs of the obligations of the Members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which speak of mutual conduct, but also of the allegations we have about third parties who are inadmissible. The promotion of verbal violence will not be allowed, nor will the popularization of verbal violence. It is forbidden by the obligations that I have under Rule 27 and by the members of the Rules of Procedure which... I ask the People's Messengers not to earn, which is the basis for a warning. People's MP Velimir Ilic, I ask you not to throw away, lest I be forced to give you a warning measure, as I ask all of us not to allow ourselves to verbally or any kind of entertainment, because it is not fun. Since I am obliged to set a break on the basis of article 85, and before I set a break, I am informing the National Assembly that today we will be working even after 1800 hours of debate on the points that are at that point being the subject of our work and until the debate is over. I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work in the afternoon at 15.00 hours. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic reported first, followed by MP Slobodan Samardzic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen and People's MPs, we continue the session in the afternoon. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic reportedly, followed by MP Slobodan Samardzic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38279	Thank you. Since a break has been declared, the last one has been said by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, and I have not had the opportunity to answer any of the lies she has made in her address, I would like to say two things. First, I'm sure the opposition is using various methods to get to the voters, to try to win power, and it's done in all countries. But there are some moral boundaries that cannot be crossed. Moral limits are that you must not lie, and especially should you not lie if it is anyone's family. It doesn't matter if a man is ordinary, whether a man is a worker, whether a man is a baker, whether he is a minister, the family is sacred. If someone dares to lie about family, then it certainly does not qualify him for someone who should have the responsibility to run the country. You brought two great lies to my family's expense and to the expense of Mr. Ciric's family, who was not present at the time, my State Secretary for Economy. As for the first lie you brought to my mother's expense, I became Minister of Economy and Regional Development in 2007. In 2007, my mother retired. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has approved, but not on my personal order or signature, because I had nothing to do with it, the project of the institute you were talking about. But my mother's been retired all along, so since 2007, women haven't worked. Neither the dinar nor any of the projects that the state institution has ever funded, nor has it ever received a dinar from the Institute's board of directors, since the Institute is a non-profit organisation that has never had a profit, these members of the board have no compensation or anything. She didn't get anything from this project. Since this untruth was first launched, I now see with whose help, the "Alo" list, I have filed a private lawsuit against the "Alo" list, of course I will do so against you too, Mrs Tabakovic, and I hope you will not call for immunity and then you will be able to, in a court of law, show what you have and simply, hopefully, answer for the untruth you have told. You said the same lie when it came to my associate Mr. Ciric. It is true that Mr. Ciric's father has worked at the Privatisation Agency since 2002, when the Agency was founded. It is true that in 2007, Mr. Ciric was appointed as State Secretary on my call and the fact that his father works at the Privatisation Agency, and that he was the State Secretary who bothered him, both to him and his father, so that just as you would not falsely accuse him. The man, regardless of his right to severance, left the Agency voluntarily without the severance money. You're saying Mr. Ciric's father raised his severance payment after a few months of work at the Agency, and he's been working since 2002. He didn't take any severance money, and he didn't work for a few months. He left with no severance money just because it would be a conflict of interest. If you can attack both my work and my associates, please, criticise, there are a lot of difficult things in the country. Much worse than the things you bring out. The bigger problem is that in Boro, for 25 driver jobs, that big truck mentioned by MPs here in the debate, 900 people competed, only saying that there is no work in Serbia. But it is true that the present time is difficult not because this government wants it, but because the entire world's population is in economic crisis. You have a situation that the unemployment rate in Spain is even higher than in Serbia, and in Serbia it is large. Of course it's fertile ground for criticism, and we can't defend ourselves against that criticism, except for the works, and we'll defend ourselves with the works because it's coming out and it'll come out. Behind every crisis goes up. But you can, and you can, and you have to criticise, it's populist, in a crisis to criticize someone, you've had, of course, a chance to do it last year when it was the deepest crisis, but you were afraid of what you would do if you were in the government. That's why it didn't occur to you to collect signatures, but only when the worst crisis went down and when we essentially defended this economic and financial system from what happened to Iceland, what happened to the Baltic countries, and well, that's your right. However, despite knowing that many similar parties came to power in such crises, and one of them came after that great world depression, and that in Germany, I simply won't let that sort of thing run out of answers. You, Mrs Tabakovic, were also the minister in charge of the government of the Republic of Serbia when your colleague Nikolic was deputy prime minister. Some citizens are free for two years to choose whether they were better off when they couldn't put the dinars in the banks, since they couldn't raise them the next day, when inflation was over 100 percent. Of course, I'm not saying it's good now, but I'm not complaining like some, I'm fighting, and I'm fighting along with my colleagues in the government to help overcome the crisis and get better. You will have opportunities for the next two years to continue to criticise, but I will not give you the chance to lie, even if not unpunished, because it must be known in Serbia, regardless of what Nikolic throws here, who is who. Ciric's father did not receive a severance payment even though he was entitled to it from the state service. My mother didn't get the money from the state. That's why Tomislav Nikolic received a government service allowance, a state-owned apartment. Alexander Wolfie got it, too. If they did it, don't think they're all like you. Don't look at people as your reflection in the mirror. Of course, I'll talk a little more, Mr. Nikolic. You're the only one who's attacking our families. It didn't come back well to anyone in their life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38280	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic has the right to reply, and the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the right to reply. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP, I said that MP Tomislav Nikolic has the right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic have the right to replication. You're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Article 100(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38281	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Dinkic has severely violated the dignity of the National Assembly. In the break of the National Assembly session, he attacked Mrs. Jorganka Tabakovic with the harshest words, insulting words that a man does not speak to a woman. You can hear that in a nuthouse, someone talking to a lady, a national MP, one of their associates in a very difficult job. Mr. Dinkic cannot be controlled and I know why he cannot be controlled, and Mrs. Slavica Djukic knows that, but this is not the place to check why Mladjan Dinkic is not being controlled. This is where the MPs sit, and the representatives of the government come to them, not to insult us, not to attack us, not to tell us that we are dogs, not to swear on our mother, which is seen in the video while Mrs Tabakovic was talking to you – Now I'm going to make your mother... And it says something on paper there. This is the man who ruined Serbia, the financial sector, agriculture. You're talking to me, Mr Dinkic, about Serbia, we're out of crisis. Go to the village to see it because it's a liter of milk, how they buy it. Let's see how the bull works. It's worth nothing more than a thousand pounds because you don't buy it anymore. Nobody pays anybody anything. You who have destroyed everything alive so that your tycoons may come to power, to rule this Serbia, you who lead this party that tears Serbia apart so that you have some benefits from it, you who take 600 million from the sale of Telekom to your profession and you yellow, who suffer all of this, all of this crime and Javalluk, you will tell us that we are lying. If we, MPs, lie to ourselves here, and you lie to all of Serbia. What you promised Serbia, Mr Dinkic, is no shame in entering the O.R. If there was a president here, he'd have kicked you out of the O.R. long ago. To compare the SNS to Adolf Hitler's party and keep everyone here in the O.R. quiet, because you're important to the government... (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. Time, right? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: You piece of shit, I'll fuck your mother on the line. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38282	Yeah. It's been two minutes. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38283	First of all, Mr. Dinkich, you won't touch anyone with a story about a family attack, especially me. It is said that without respect for the Public Procurement Act, you directly awarded a contract to the Institute in which your mother owns 30% of the actions at the place of Deputy Chairman of the Management Board, you got to do the job of forecasting and moving on the labour market, while there are hundreds of experts in this country who can do so and would probably get the job, for example. The first Economic Institute to have been publicly announced that you are looking for such a job. I don't care if it's your mother. I'm interested in the fact that you violated the Public Procurement Act, the Accounting Act, and you didn't register as an advance what you directly assigned to do to the institute that was and remained your party institute. We have evidence of that in the DRI report and don't give the copyright list "Hello." The first data was provided by us, the SNS MPs, in the debate on the DRI Report. Don't diminish the importance of your violation of the law. I took it out in a way to prove who is exercising power and holds most of the jurisdiction in the Serbian government. The fact that you used ugly words, waited ten minutes for a replica between Mr Ilic and Mrs Susane Grubeshic and headed towards me threatening, you think I'm afraid of it? Serbian citizens should be afraid of who is running their business and who is proposing laws. I didn't ask who they stole "passat" from, one of the cars bought in illegal public procurement. I didn't ask who Mr. Luke Andric's mother, who did the bankruptcy law, and if there was a conflict of interest. You're telling yourself that dad and son wouldn't be in conflict of interest, he left it behind, and the problem is that I'm going to have it as a remark. What is it, a violation of the law or my objection? Do not underestimate the intelligence of Serbian citizens, please. It didn't bother you that there were 12 pregnant women on the shooting list. One of them again in 10 years, twice in your direction. That doesn't bother you. Mr. Dinkic holds colleges once a week and he knows it, with all the directors of the centre from that agency. Please don't underestimate the intelligence of those people you made unemployed, and therefore without human dignity. Whether Mr. Ciric's father was found on the departure list and all other evidence will be obtained from the competent institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38284	Time. Mr. Senic, do you advertise the Rules of Procedure or is it a replica? Mr. Ostojić is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38285	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, most kindly please interrupt this session for a moment, as it threatens to freak out. You're not aware of what was heard in the transmission. I am convinced that both the dignity of this home and the importance of this law, which is on the agenda, Mr Dinkic, requires that we return to one normal dialogue. Please, President, interrupt the session. Invoke the consultation of the heads of Parliament's groups to overcome this situation, because I repeat, you are not aware of what was heard in the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38286	Mr. Nikolic, did you advertise the Rules of Procedure? First Mr. Senic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38287	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, has no reason to interrupt the session. I think there are every reason why we can talk here normally and with dignity, as the citizens of Serbia expect. We can't meet all the time in the mud, and then when we all get together with somebody else's credit, we're trying to get out of the mud just as dirty and let's say let's stop this session now and see what's going on. Here, as always, is the question of replacing thesis. So, you launch them, the whole story starts once a lie, and then that lie doesn't come out when you deny it, obviously, and you say that that person and that person received or didn't receive the severance, that that man did it or didn't do it. When it is found that it is not so then we move on to the next story - let's see, we'll deliver evidence to the authorities later on, etc. Here we are constantly faced with such a policy, where you are forced to defend yourself against something that is obviously not true, and that whoever is lying to this place does not suffer absolutely any controversy over all of it. So, charge someone that they took the money, after a few minutes it's determined that he didn't do it, and then we say now we're all in the mud, let's interrupt the session, what do we do? We have here on the agenda several serious laws and huge space, and time and each other, that these laws are normally criticised in an argument and to say what is possibly not good and how it can be corrected. We can't keep going through the same mud. Once we have to draw a line, or this will be the National Assembly, where we'll measure what everyone says well, or this will be one kind of den where it's good for all of us in one crowd to kill each other, to fall into the mud and then to break up every day and determine who's to blame. So we have to set the rules and we try as hard as possible to act in accordance with these rules. But if this is continued, if the congregation is to make a den, if the rules of the den rule prevail, then, of course, we too will follow those rules and act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38288	Mr. Nikolic mentioned the party and on this basis you were given the right to reply. Mr. Ostojic is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38289	Article 103. Wrong interpretation. Mr. Senic, I didn't suggest that the session be interrupted and this should be off the agenda, just for a moment to consult the heads of the parliamentary groups. If you're already talking, Mr. Senic, about the den, then you must consider the fact of the responsibility of your coalition majority for that den. Who left the mandates, who opened up all the media at the time the radicals had a fight, a faction of the party? So don't talk about the den now without understanding the responsibility of you from the ruling majority to that den. I'm just saying there's something in the transmission that's not on the honor of this congregation. As you can see, the debate is not about the law. I'm telling you, let's stop the session, meet the heads of the parliamentary groups and the president, and we'll continue, I'm sure, after that break. We'll talk about the agenda. It's also in your interest, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38290	In fact, you have called on a member who speaks about the agenda of the congregation. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38291	This National Assembly is not a den, it has become a den today when Mr Dinkic spoke. You now consider how individuals in the congregation make a den. We're 250 here every day. We have our conflicts, our misunderstandings, we don't even agree on the law, we have different discussions, but this isn't a den until someone makes it a den. You know how something becomes a den. It could be a bar until someone walks into that bar, so it's identified as a den. The insult you have said, Mr Dinkic, to the Serbian Progressive Foreigner, which you already know, however you baptized, populist, such or such, will vote over a million Serbian citizens, is an insult I cannot forgive you. There's something I could forgive for your illness if you'd admit it and not be a minister. It's humane to forgive someone when they're sick. You don't want me to accuse sick people, do you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38292	Please, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38293	I didn't tell you. You know very well what disease it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38294	Please take care of the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38295	You didn't care when a man attacked a woman, then you didn't get stuck? You didn't start the session by asking Mr Dinkic why he came here to physically live over Mrs Tabakovic? I'm telling you, come now, Mr. Dinkich. It's easy for her. Come on, I can't wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38296	Time out for 15 minutes. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to me. [[After break – 15.50]] He has the word Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38298	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the presidency, chairman, today we are talking about amending a law that we adopted or which most adopted nine months ago. It is strange and interesting in itself, and at the very least it would ask for a serious explanation as to why this happened. Why did the government decide after nine months to amend a law, a law on which a very serious debate was held in this House and adopted by the majority, which has also come into force. In the light of these amendments to the Regional Development Act, we cannot find any serious reasons. That argument simply ignores the fact that this law was passed nine months ago and that amendments to the law are being adopted today. You will find some repeated explanation from the previous law, not an explanation – why this law is changing. If you read this carefully, you will conclude that it is the same text. In this explanation, however, it is somewhat less than in the previous insistence that this law should be passed due to the expected donations from the EU IPA funds, i.e. pre-accession funds. This is then stated only in one half sentence. All in all, this explanation that we have received is not enough to explain to MPs and other interested ones – why this law is changing. The opportunity was given by the minister of the appropriate portfolio in the Serbian government, which he did not take advantage of today. What he said is really not enough to understand the reasons for changing this law. To repeat or interpret if allowed, the main reason here is that it is not good to account for the number of residents in four regions, previously defined regions of central Serbia, and that after one new calculation, there is this conclusion – that a better balance of population among the regions would be if these four central Serb regions were made two. However, this argument cannot be too overly and plasible for a simple reason, which could also be counted in May of last year, when the draft of this law was given to the Assembly. Someone who doesn't know the opportunities in Serbia wouldn't understand anything here. If here, for example, you came from this gallery to observe this debate you wouldn't really understand the real reasons why this law is changing, and basically all of us here in this Parliament and the whole public - knows why the law is changing. So we all know "the Emperor is naked," except no one's going to say it. Several MPs mentioned that reason. It is known that when the government adopted and intended to pass the regulation in December of last year, which would implement this law, and to set out the exact limits of the region, which were previously set out in the law, that intervention of certain political circles occurred, and above all by representatives of the two minority parties. These were the parties of Bosniaks, who said – they do not want their municipalities or municipalities in which they are the majority or municipalities they experience as municipalities where they live compactly, Bosniaks or Muslims, cannot belong to the two regions, as is thus set out in the December proposal for a government regulation. Then there were these political debates, conversations. Something small followed the press. We could not see what this was really about and a compromise was made by bringing it down from seven to five, namely these four central Serbian regions are reduced to two regions. First, to call someone who doesn't know the opportunities in Serbia. He would ask the question – well, why, if the right law on regional development and regional units are determined, so these statistical units that need to contribute to a policy of uniform regional development, would it be natural for these regions to be more and not less? Simply, with this collapse, with this increase in two regions, making two out of four, we've got two big regions and a half of the population and a half of the area. Within these large regions there are also fewer and more developed areas or some sub-region, to call them that. So it would be natural for the number of regions to increase if the law changes. It was the primary error of that original law. So seven statistical regions are very little to meet the requirement for balanced economic development. No, we actually reduced the number of regions and rounded them up – so of those four, we made two big ones. So, the essence of things isn't regional development. The essence of the matter is in one political settlement, which was to meet one minority party or two minority parties, who actually made their political request, and probably their political condition, since they are an integral part of the climate coalition that rules Serbia. Then the duchy Hungarians said they wanted to go to one place. We have a relapse of such political talks in keeping the category of "authority" in this law. So, "authority" exists in those definitions of terms or categories used in the law, and the areas are, in the end, the ones that will be filled with their content one day when some subregion is made to satisfy the appetites of minority parties – so either the Hungarian parties in Vojvodina or Hungarian parties or Bosniak parties in Raško. So we have nothing from regional development policy. This is, therefore, one of the most ordinary policies of bargaining and trade within the ruling coalition, and therefore this law looks like this, as it looks. We have heard very little about this law today and how it could help, is the policy of a uniform regional development of Serbia. We have heard much more about the private ideology of the Minister of Economy on this – that Serbia needs to be regionalised. When we last discussed the bill, the topic was the introduction – that these are statistical regions, which are being created because pre-accession EU funds require such a type of statistical intervention in a country, in order to make their regional policy easier and more effective. So it was almost forbidden to talk about the political aspects of this thing. Of course, we all knew that this law had its own political equivalent. It was already before the debate on the law, in the spring of last year, when President Boris Tadic fired a parole -- that Serbia should be regionalised in seven regions, so in the same number of regions proposed for statistical regions in this non-political or apolitical law. Of course, Tadic had his problems with the Vojvodina statute, which was smuggled to him by members of his party from Novi Sad. It was the time when he didn't know what to do and how to get out of trouble. He simply wanted to transfer the matter to some balance between the regional organisation in Serbia and then said seven regions. After that came the story of this law and of statistical regions, to remind you, but I'm not saying this to repeat the story of the past, but because of this law. We transferred those seven to five, but in the opening letter, the minister remained a story on Serbia's regionalisation as a territorial, administrative-political regionalisation. He noted several supporting arguments, moved the discussion from the law's case to the subject of a future law or a change in the constitution, which is more and more discussed, in order for Serbia to be organised as a regional state. We have a little bit of, let me say, rational arguments for such a single request, but we have a lot of quasi-European ideology in such a story as we've had today. We heard it was a general trend in Europe, making regional states, the minister said. For the sake of facts, it should be said that of the 27 EU countries, three are federally organised, two are regional states, and 22 are unitary states, with a smaller or higher degree of decentralisation. This is what the EU is today or the EU Member States, their forms of state planning. When we look at the world, out of 192 UN Member States, 26 are federally organised, two regionals, these are the two from the EU – Spain and Italy and all others, 164 or 165 are uniformly organised countries, for teaching facts, about how modern and modern regionalization is in today's world. That's not true. It is a pro-European story, a modern, quasi-European, ideological story that wants to tell – we must be in trend, Serbia must follow advanced countries. These advanced countries have the arrangements they wanted and what they did before they joined the EU. Eastern and Central European countries, when they joined the EU, faced the issue of statistical regionalisation and it was carried out in all of them, but none of them changed, though they all brought new constitutions during the 1990s, their state-run arrangement. They're all other unitary states, some with more decentralization of the administration, some with less. Let's keep it recorded here as a fact. Also, it is not true what is said here in this room that in European countries 70% of the law is passed at regional level. That is what Mr. Minister said today in his agitation for Serbia's regionalisation. In the EU, Member States are not regionally organised, except for two. Their regions have no legitimate jurisdiction at all. These are administrative regions, except for two, which have certain legitimate competences. There is no question that this percentage of the law is passed at the level of some regions. Pure fiction. It's really not necessary for this House to stick up an artificial story that doesn't have an actual background, it's just one and one and two. So, we don't really know what the topic of this conversation is, is the topic of this law, or is it a proposal for change, or is it a topic – a project for regionalisation of Serbia, as a regional state. This kind of confusion was put in place by the Minister of Economics and Regional Development today when he gave the opening statement. Of course, as MPs, we must follow what is said and react, not only to tell what we have prepared in advance, but to carry out a kind of reaction to the controversy, and also to deny the new attitudes that have been made here. One such story is this story about the necessity for Serbia to pass this law on statistical regions, a law on regional development with statistical regions, in order to enjoy the benefits of EU pre-accession funds as soon as possible. That's what we turned our attention to last July, if anyone remembers. DSS lawmakers said it is simply not necessary and it is not time to run ahead of the ore, because Serbia can use the EU's regional development fund only when it becomes a candidate. That was July 2009. We haven't been off the dead end since then, so a potential candidate, the first step we're on, even though we've submitted to the candidacy, even though we've celebrated one three days, roughly, in the media, and that's just one procedure that could be done in the post. No country celebrates the application, but marks, for example, when it becomes a candidate. Today we are in the same situation, but we do not mind, therefore, that in the light of this law we mention that we should do so to introduce statistical regions to run for pre-accession funds, i.e. for this region that only applies to candidates. Serbia today uses two, three non-uses of five forms of pre-accession funds, one of those three that does not benefit because it is not a candidate and a pre-accession fund, the Regional Development Fund. When, we do not know that, because it is quite clear that Serbia is facing very unpredictable political conditions or blackmails and the whole story of candidacy revolves around a vague fog policy that is being conducted in Brussels, or, as far as I'm concerned, leading in London and Berlin, and primarily in Washington, it concerns some major geopolitical objectives and stronger countries in the EU and the United States, and in particular regarding recognising Kosovo's independence as one condition and another, the release of the Republic of Serbia through water in these attempts of constitutional change. Serbia must do so to gain candidate status, preferably. The story of the UN tribunal is just an old mantra, which is constantly being restored and has no real purpose whatsoever. If we are faced with such problems, especially the problems of that questionnaire of four thousand questions, etc. and with the whole procedure, with a triple vote in the Council of Ministers, which must be unanimous in order for the whole procedure to turn, etc., as real people, we must be aware that we are far from the candidacy. Then why are we building statistical regions? I want to say that the Regional Development Act could have passed without those statistical regions around which the spear is now being broken, because they are now the introduction to that political regionalisation of Serbia. We have to keep that in mind. The law could have been passed as the law of the current Serbia, with its current territorial organisation of government, and could have changed very easily immediately, even by a government regulation, once Serbia became a candidate. No, it took this demagogy of Europeans, which is constantly stretching here, day and day in the media, in this Parliament and everywhere else. That's where it needs to be real. It must be heard about what is going on and what are the conditions of Serbia to at least move a little from its position, very invisible, which it has in European integration processes. When this law looks a little bit more seriously, although it doesn't have, let's say, a serious structure or a serious goal, I don't think it's a serious intention, but come on, since it's our job to read these materials today, to look at it, we finally come to a practical conclusion. In Article 19, the so-called so-called "Subject" is listed. Regional development entities and, besides the Government and other ministries, a large number of so-called "supervised" are listed here. Subjects. If you think about it a little bit, all these bodies, some of which exist, let them be established, I won't read them now, because I know you've read them, represent the users of regional development. It's not the subjects, it's the ones who are going to draw that budget from Article 45, if I'm not mistaken, that's talking about financial resources. So many new institutions need to be fed, they need to be given money, they need to be established, they need to be created by documents or by the rules of procedure they will be working on. Here is a very strange concept, which is around to say – Serbia's regionalisation with its reregulation. This government needs everything and everything to regulate laws, sublaws, to set up a lot of institutions, a lot of agencies, services. We had a chance, when we discussed the Duke's statutes, to see how much the service was there, or whether it works or will be established. When you look at it, it's actually one network of institutions, new bodies, new services that will be controlled by that ministry that is actually responsible for regional development. In fact, there is an institutional party structure, both personal and institutional and financial. Mr Dinkic's coalition partners and his party should take care of that, but that's not our concern. Of course. Our concern is how much does it cost and what does it serve? That's exactly what I'm talking about. There's no savings here, no rationalization, no economics. This is one concept of Serbia's very large red tape at all levels. New levels of power are being opened to establish and feed new bureaucracy. For Serbia at this point would be far better, one, so to speak, a unitary concept that would imply a deregulation with strong local self-government, which is the concept of the largest number of EU member states. That would be some practical answer, and now, of course, we don't have time to talk about it. This is completely on the other side. This is a practical negation of economic development, of uniform regional development and of some, as I say, benevolent pro-European trends in Serbia itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38299	Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38300	Since, Professor Samardzic, you're a professor and you know European law, you're an expert, I just want to point out some of the things that you're wrong about. First of all, you said that you expected that maybe more than seven regions could be formed in this law, that this could be expected because it would contribute to a more even regional development. The rule imposed by the European Statistics Agency – Eurostat, is that the minimum population per region can be up to 800,000. The maximum number of regions we could in Serbia, which have this population, was in previous law seven. The number of regions could not be increased because this would be contrary to the rules imposed by Eurostat, i.e. the European Statistical Office. Why we changed our mind, I already mentioned, we had the best intention of helping this law in the economic development of less developed areas. It is true that there was a political debate that was not productive, and then we realized that there was a mistake in not making regions of the same size, because then nobody really has an argument, if Vojvodina's Euroregion with two million inhabitants, if Belgrade is about two million, other regions should have about two million inhabitants, or between one million and six thousand and two million, as Belgrade has a million and six thousand inhabitants. That was the reason and there was a policy, but the bottom line is we have to live in some reality where politics interferes. That's why we did it this way. We could not increase it for this reason, which is a restriction imposed by the European Eurostat. But it's not true what you said about a small number of regionalised states and the rule of unitary states. After this, I will give you one piece of work from the gentleman who was president of the Council of Europe for Regionalisation, who was in Belgrade last week. I'll e-mail you this. I'm just going to give you some examples of regionalized states. They're not that few. These are, apart from Spain and Italy, which you correctly mentioned in Poland, Portugal, France, Great Britain, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia, where, and here you are right, each country has specificities. For example, Great Britain has given its respective responsibilities to its regions in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and has not made any specific rules for England. Also, some other countries have had a specific way of regionalising, and in this it is essential to have a long debate and find the best solution. You don't need to copy, and here I agree with you and the others who said that, other people's solutions. We need to see what best fits our terms, but I support the views of those who feel they have the right to believe that the unitary state may be the best solution for Serbia. When I say - I support, I think a man has the right to that attitude and people have the right to that attitude. The debate should see whether it is the best solution for Serbia or not. I don't think so. Such an attitude must exist, as soon as unitary states exist, why would the people of Serbia not have such an attitude? I think that the debate needs to show in the coming years what the shortcomings are, and what the advantages of the unitary state, and what are the advantages, and what the shortcomings of the regional states, and then, all together, decide what is the best solution. Also, in the end, I just want to say that you are wrong when you say that there will be some new institutions with a new administration, because the only two new institutions that are being formed are essentially, compared to today, the National Council for Regional Development and Regional Councils. Just a name that they're advice, they're not the institutions they need I don't know what kind of personnel base. There we will have people who will be proportionate from different regions in Serbia and the areas presented. As far as the National Council is concerned, it will also be represented by resolution ministers, except ministers in charge of different areas, from environmental, infrastructure, through the development of entrepreneurship, but will also be represented by representatives of Vojvodina. Three representatives from Vojvodina, one of whom will be the Prime Minister of the AP, Belgrade three representatives, one of which is the mayor, Shumadi and Western Serbia will have four representatives, southern and eastern Serbia three representatives, KiM also three representatives, one of which is the KIM minister. These are the people who will be delegated to that council. They won't receive any compensation, and the administrative office will lead, literally, one person who will keep notes from these meetings, so there won't be any new administrations. All other institutions already exist. There is the National Agency for Regional Development, which has already been formed. By bringing together a former agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and one sector that has been set aside by new systematisation from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. It is the infrastructure development sector, which has now been transferred along with people and equipment to the national agency, so that the agency is already formed and has a limited number of people with new systemisation that the government has already adopted. I think there's 50 people working in this agency in total. Also, the regional development of the agency, I have already repeated several times today, but there is and there will be no need to establish new ones, unless an area feels the need to form it itself, which is their right and is the essence of decentralisation. If people living in a neighborhood feel they need to organize themselves better and better represent their interests than the central government, then they form an agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38301	MP Igor Becic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38302	Madam President, I'm reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Madam President, it was obviously more important for you to host the prince and princess at lunch than to protect the dignity of a national MP, a lady, from the insinuation of a member of the government, a minister, a man who, in his fear of discussing the MPs of the people, every time he comes to this hall, makes an incident. I was sitting next to Mrs Tabakovic, talking to her when he came in, after the end of the afternoon session, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dinkic told her in a commanding tone – that she was sitting there, not to move, to be there when he spoke a replica of her presentation, and that was not enough for him, but with curses, I apologize to the citizens, who I will repeat here – you lie like a dog. To my question – is that how he speaks to a lady, he continues to be insulting. He went out and told her, you dog. We saw it here, especially astounding that one MP group cheered and inspired him to continue to insult Mrs Tabakovic. Madam President, you have allowed this same vice-president of the government to insult one parliamentary group, calling MPs SNS fascists, members of a similar party. Here are the people who are hosts, who are not used to having their families and that a large number of SNS members so called the Deputy Prime Minister, where the people's initiative of a million signatures gives for the right of the SNS (President: Time). Finish your sentence. I end up believing that after this election, people like this will go to the dump site of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38303	Mr. Ambassador, I'm the only one who can break the Rules of Procedure. At the time of the session, there was no reason to say any measures, and at the time I was doing other jobs that were also my responsibility, Mrs. Comic held a session and nothing happened in the O.R. Only in this room can the Rules of Procedure be harmed, therefore, you abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure and I warn you about it. Don't put me in a position to make demands. Mr. Machine, please don't throw. I'm warning you, don't speak from the scene, you didn't get the word. Mr. Becic, please, if you continue to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I will have to express certain measures. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38304	Madam President, you abuse the Rules of Procedure. I can accept that you do not know what happened in the O.R., although I have personally come to inform your chief of staff about what happened, but you were present when that same gentleman, the vice president of the government, called members of the SNS, our parliamentary group, the fascists. We're hosts who aren't used to you talking like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38305	The second time you speak the same contents. I give you a warning. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38306	According to Article 252, the maintenance of order in the building of the National Assembly is provided by a special service, and its organisation and work are determined by a special act by the president of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly, who is responsible for her work, manages the ministry. First you threatened an MP that something bad would happen to him if he kept telling you what happened, and then you gave the measure, just because he met you that one minister, leaving, of course, had enough reason to be leaving this room while this session was going on, insulted the MP, by the way, my dear ladies who you are members of the women's network, and the lady. You won't hear what he's told her. You don't care about that. You are interested in whether you have been warned twice by the MP on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If someone as a host tells you that he is not a Nazi, where it was heard in the national assembly session in transmission, that he, not only himself, is hundreds of thousands of us, accused of continuing the tradition of Adolf Hitler. It is to you that whoever said it is warned, so you share Mr Dinkic's opinion. You don't think we should defend ourselves against this kind of Dinkic, that we should be punished when we warn you that this Dinkic told us that we are Nazis. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, do I have good judgment that you agree with Mr. Dinkic? Or do you disagree with him? Just show us something. While you're punishing us for not letting him insult us, it seems to me that you're solidarity with him. You're solidarity with the government, but that government doesn't deserve you to defend it here, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. It's a government that's one privatisation that was in your interest to solve well, but thousands haven't solved well. It's a government that took care of several employees in one of your companies. Millions didn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38307	Time. Mr. Nikolic, I'm going to get an insight into all the facts relating to the period of break, or whatever happened outside of this room. I wasn't able, I didn't see, I didn't hear. In the O.R.? I really didn't hear Mr. Dinkic insult anyone. As it is our obligation to protect the dignity of the Assembly by speaking to one another, we should address it, politely, of course, that it is the obligation of the Minister to address the MPs and we Minister. I didn't hear it, otherwise I'd react. I'll listen to all the videos that were written here and I can react tomorrow. I have information that it's been on tape and something that doesn't contribute to the dignity of this home, and it's coming from you, but I don't have any insight into it, so I'm sure I'll get an insight. Mr Tomislav Nikolic returns for his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38308	What you've been informed, that's true. I, until I spoke, repeated to the MPs exactly from word to word what Mr. Dinkic Jorgovanki Tabakovic said. Of course, that's what I told the MPs after the microphone that he cursed his mother, and that he would take her down, and I said it again, and mildly to you when you can react like that. You, like those who defend you and keep quiet, but if you had come after them, they would have taken a run for it. So, you're leaving, you disappear from this congregation, you use that time, you punish us, you take us, you take our word, but just go to the people, you go to the people, you go to the factories, you go to the stables and the fields, you go see if you've done something right for this people or you haven't. You can do whatever you want to us, our strength is growing. We've now crossed you by five percentage points, and these Dinkic points by 1,000 percentage points. You're microscopic. You're a statistical error, but you're vermin. The vermin when it enters the eye can eat the eye, and it's microscopic, you can't see it. That's what you do by your influence in Serbia. When we start investigating what you've done, when the police want to apply the knowledge they have now, so when we win, Mr. Dinkic, the police will be able to do their job, the prosecution will be able to do their job, I promise them now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38309	Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. But if you are not satisfied, would you like to make a statement in the Parliament's voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38310	You are absolutely right when you say that the situation in Serbia is difficult, but there is no need to associate the difficult situation in Serbia with unculture, because it is one thing to tell the truth that people have a hard time living, that the global crisis has affected that things are getting worse here too, and the other thing is if you use it by being rude, by not telling the truth and by insulting the families of your political inexperiences. I'll never insult a family of people who don't think as politically as I do. You can win the election, and you can lose them, both good, but the most important thing is being human, and man is telling the truth. I didn't threaten Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic, I just wanted to tell her she was lying about my mother and about Mr. Kiric's father, and I asked him to stay here, to be fair, to hear me say it in her face, because there were two hours when the chairman interrupted the assembly session. Of course I'm going to have to handle all this privately in court because this isn't a matter, but when you repeat it, I have to, too, that any law has been broken. No one would, at least me or anyone from my party, protect my own mother, let alone someone else. The auditor did not file any applications based on what Mrs Tabakovic was saying. I repeat once again what I said, unlike you who are used to getting severances from the state in terms of apartments of over 100 squares, and you, Mr Nikolic and Mr. Vukic, and I heard in the break and Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic received from the Post Office an obvious reward at the end of her term, even though my colleagues told me so. I have to tell you the last thing you said, I said again, God forbid you get the election, that Serbia sees you solving problems in Kursumlia, Bora, dealing with other issues, and I'll stay here, I'll never call for immunity. I'm not afraid of anything in my life, least of all of you, of being in power, but if you say Mrs. Tabakovic is a lady, let me -- I really love my mother and if she lies about her, I can't tell her anything but that she's a liar.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38311	I ask that we use terminology according to the need to cultivate the dignity of the congregation. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38312	Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, allow me to give the last answer to you trying to abuse your position and disrespect the law to the story of your mother. So, by the way, you gave away the Public Procurement Act money from the Ministry for Making Some Studies and No Public Procurement. That you are aware that you have committed an offence tells the fact that, at the request of Transparency to the Agency for Business Registers, a question has been asked – when Mrs. Mirosnka Dinkic was relieved, your mother accidentally in this procedure, because your illegality is a problem of your morality as a minister, and that she passed her actions on to other members. In the APR, they refused to answer that question, even though they were in debt. Why do you keep quiet if everything's okay? Why do you keep your mouth shut if she's transferred 30% of the stock and isn't the vice president of the board of directors? You can repeat your claim a thousand times, as in the duel with Djelic, that your mother is something you do not want to be mentioned. Both my mother and everyone's mother are obliged to be protected from unwarranted attacks. I'm interested in your disrespect for the law, because you're the minister who left thousands of people on the street with his bad laws, and that's the problem you don't want to accept. I want the citizens of Serbia to hear, for nothing, you translate the matter into five million abuses. Billions are your fault for the National Savings Bank, for the sale of Mobi 063, for the large number of privatisations that you ran to the last "Matroza" (President: Time. I'm asking you for how much you sold it and how much money did you take within the time limit laid down by law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38313	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go. Excuse me, you're right for another minute. You have to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38314	Mrs. Djukic, I fully understand your need to be on the side of the ruling majority. We have long learned that there is a position and opposition in this assembly and that there is a growing party in the opposition, and therefore there are not many who would be on its side, even when the basic human right is compromised to speak with dignity. I ask you to give guests in this assembly, ministers and anyone else a warning that we have earned here at least a reprehensible dictionary argument the way I bring it out. If you didn't know, Mr. Dinkic, I've been employed in Telekom for 11 years, and like all other employees, I've got an apartment, but the only one, let the citizens hear, for the last 10 years, I haven't been able to buy 30% of my apartment because the G17 team is on the board of directors. I'm absolutely not interested in the irresponsibility of the state. I'm a conscientious retainer who offered as an employee to buy out a part of his apartment, and by which and how you serve, let him serve your honor, but to know that there are three children behind me, and what you can leave behind as a minister, be my guest and lay down for these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38315	Time. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38316	Thank you, Madam President. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure were injured the moment you interrupted the session and you called the heads of Parliament's clubs for consultations. However, the microphone is a miracle and cameras are a miracle, so it remains noted that the president of the main opposition party, the site of the largest opposition party, did not win the elections but by taking the mandate from the SRS, which he said in the microphone. Now I couldn't as a lady repeat what Mr. Nikolic said, but there's a video. I also took the DVD. This video, if RTS doesn't let it go, I hope it will, since it's a public service, the cameras are there, the DVD is taken, so you'll see how one host talks and one host orders the minister and president of a small parliamentary party. As for you, Mrs. Tabakovic, and you, Mr. Nikolic, since you say that G17 plus Telekom will receive 600m euros, we give up that money in advance so that you can finally buy those 30% of your apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38317	National MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38318	I checked in before this circle of controversy, so perhaps the MPs don't know what it's about. I reported after Minister Dinkic's reaction to my speech. This controversy and the situation in parliament restricts me from speaking seriously about this matter, because it has been put into an unserious context since the beginning. First, perhaps this law could be discussed and calmly. Maybe it could, but the government didn't want it. She didn't want the ruling majority either. When we look at the amendments to the July debate in parliament, none of them are adopted. You came back after nine months with some new law and here in an incident and stressful situation we're talking about. In the end, a unique unusual incident was made. We've been in this House for a long time. I don't mean to tolerate hard words, anyone. Words fell very long, months and years from the majority towards the minority and vice versa and towards the presidency. But it is a unique case that one minister verbally commits aggression towards one MP. It's a truly unique case and it's part of the atmosphere of the debate on this paper. I have to testify because I heard what he said and I have to protest, even though it wasn't my intention to talk about it now, but to answer his remarks. It's not an atmosphere for rational conversation. It is my fault that we may have been able to talk about this law, which is very important for Serbia, it bears the name – the law on regional development, to talk in a completely peaceful and open atmosphere, and maybe the opposition contributes to making it better. I'll be back in July. Take the amendments and take a look at them. You weren't interested at all. Here was the opening letter on Serbia's regionalisation project, not the regional development law. A single atmosphere was created that was first politically charged, and then it became, I say, humanly electrified, unusually exchanges of difficult words, which I don't justify, but a unique incident that happened here, after all, that the minister insulted one MP. So there's no point in me talking about what Dinkic was saying anymore. It would be useful if it were a different atmosphere and we could exchange arguments and accept each other's rationalities for this law, so it would be voted by most or perhaps others. Not in this atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38319	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. ) Do you have a replica of Susan's exposure? You gave her a cause for replication. Here we go, and then we're done. Here you go. You have to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38320	I don't understand you. I gave the lady a reason for the replica, she spoke, then I asked, and you give her the word again. What have I caused her to do now?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38321	I'm asking you to get back to the agenda. You've made it clear to each other what you've had. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38322	If you could interpret that I've made bad words to Mr Dinkic, I apologize, but if she were a lady, I wouldn't think of saying such ugly words to him. So, I repeated what he said to Mrs. Tabakovic, it offends you, it's okay, I accept. You say that we are the largest opposition party and that we are created by kidnapping the mandates of the Serbian Radical Party. We have 21 parliamentary mandates, free of charge. Every mandate belongs to each of us. The party remained there with a much larger number of mandates. Don't insult them. They are the largest opposition party, with the highest parliamentary mandates. Or maybe we are the most influential among Serbian citizens? You should have said so. Yes, we are the main opposition party because the most Serbian citizens believe in us. To you, Mr. Dinkic, let me just say, yes, in a difficult situation, we will find Serbia when we win. But that's what you left. Don't call us out on how we're gonna handle this. We call you for bringing Serbia into this situation. In 2001, there was no global economic crisis, but a wide open door for Serbia to grab all benefits, all benefits, from the European Union and move forward decisively. It's not your problem, and you don't have to prove love for the West at all. Your party has no problem sabotaging Russian affairs in Serbia to prove itself to the West. You can't go to the West because bribery, corruption and crime have persecute Serbia and come from your party. You've given the financial sector into the hands of others. You, Mr. Dinkich. You're responsible for hundreds of thousands of unemployed. You're responsible for peasants who have nothing to sow this year, what to reap and profit from it. What cattle to feed in a barn and profit from it? What does a peasant in Serbia have to do with profit today? It's your fault these 800 thousand unemployed. How many people do you work in the gray economy? Over 700 grand. You personally are in the Ministry firing pregnant women and maternity mothers. You're waiting for her to come out of maternity leave and you're firing her. You're a role model. industrialists and capitalists how to treat ladies. It's your fault there's no birthright in Serbia. What girl is allowed to marry? What mother can stay in a different state and keep her job? It's all on your back. You're left with a historical responsibility. Wait till we win, then criticize us for our reign.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38323	Three minutes. Mr. Vlajko Senic and then it's the end of the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38324	Article 104. I think I've heard from you for the first time, but what Mr. Nikolic said can't be so undetected. So he explicitly said we are obstructing Russian affairs in Serbia. Russia is a great country. Russia is a serious world power. Even though this is a day-to-day political debate, we cannot be so irresponsible to our international position. Unlike you, Mr. Nikolic, we have always had an honest attitude towards everyone, including the Russians, and when the question of NIS was the only difference between us and you is that we are Russians then, not because we don't love Russia or we have any problem with them, we openly said what we think about this job. On the Energy Committee, Mr Nikolic, I said, and I will now repeat that I am convinced that the agreement we signed with NIS or "Gasprom" will cause an advanced period of deterioration of Serbian-Russian relations. Here, watch what I tell you, instead of the goal set, that with such a single agreement where our largest oil company practically without a tender, we gave "Gasprom", we establish better relations with Russia that gives us significant international support, the time ahead will show that it will be one of the major factors of stumbling between Serbia and Russia. That's what this is about. We have no problem with Russia or with Russian investments. As far as we're concerned, everyone's welcome, but we always want to play it openly, by clear rules, precisely because we don't want short-term gains and long-term losses. It's what's important to say. Don't drag us into our conflict and Russia now. There's no reason. There are other arguments, but it's important to hear this. So we have nothing as a party, nor any of us individually against Russia, against Russian interests. Unlike you, we tell you what we think and I tell you that Serbia is a place in Euro-Atlantic integration, we respect Russia and we are not hypocritical and double-faced, and the time ahead will show who was telling the truth and who bought the current political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38325	Although you have explained through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the argument of breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be the basis for new replicas, therefore there are no conditions further for replicas. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38326	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Government, I will try to get back to the subject, if anyone interrupts me again, I will return to what was before the discussion of the law itself, but I hope they won't. We are talking a lot more about the Regional Development Act today, and I expected that attention would be given to the Law on Free Action, Change and Complementary, since it is mainly the target of the attack but when Minister Dinkic is not there, so now I'm getting how anyone can respond to this attack and what with my 1000 euros and you owe me, Dinkic, so much and so much, but today it's not exactly because this topic and these statistical regions have initiated and some old aspirations that only strong, centralised Serbia should survive and that only a strong, centralised state should exist in this area. This debate today reminds me a lot of the debate that we have had on the Statute of Vojvodina because I recognise, as distinguished colleague Komic would say, the same fears, and fears arise as soon as voices that demand the transfer of competence, which require a little less authority at the central level, and a little more at the regional level or at the level of local communities. Those who spoke of the Statute of Vojvodina then speak in the same way today about the Law on Regional Development and on statistical regions. There are big eyes in fear, so many people see separatism, as if in countries that don't have regions there's no separatism. That's just not true. It is precisely the regions that represent a democratic response to any kind of separatism that may appear in Serbia, and Serbia is not divided by regions, Serbia is divided by poverty. We're all aware of that. There are huge regional differences between parts of Serbia, and we all agree that Serbia is the country with the largest regional differences in Europe. Between the most developed and underdeveloped part, that difference is 7-1. Among the municipalities, the difference is even bigger. It comes to 15:1, and sometimes statistics don't exactly record all the trends, so these differences are increasing over time, and we're staying at those figures we found a year or two ago from the Republic Statistics Office. Some parts of Serbia, and that's nothing new to say, slowly die. First they have no children, no young people, and eventually they have no population at all. The average income of Belgrade's citizens is 19 times higher than that of the citizens of Bor. One Novosadian earns 15 times more than one Leskovcan, and because of these and such differences today we are talking about this law that will not eliminate these differences, but that will try to reduce them. I think it's in everyone's best interests, every citizen of this country, that these differences be reduced and they become bearable. There were significant differences among the EU member states as soon as they entered the EU, so between the most developed region of London and the most underdeveloped Kluža, this difference was 170-1, but in the few years that Romania's EU member country has reduced that difference. It is not so drastic anymore because the EU has mechanisms to reduce these differences. Unfortunately, because of these income gaps, and they exist in employment and elsewhere between Belgrade and other parts of Serbia, some often call Serbia as a small-scale Belgrade town or as a big head with a weak body. If we want to change that picture, we have to commit not only to this law, which is some first step but not enough, but to what is called essential decentralisation, and whose part can, but also not necessarily regionalisation, because I see regionalization causing the most controversy. The current system is simply unsustainable and it's nothing new, and I don't invent hot water when I say this. Rich municipalities are becoming richer, poorer, and regional differences not only affect the living standards of the population but also demographic indicators in many areas. For example, in Vojvodina, in all seven districts, the name is a negative natural growth. In central Serbia, only two districts have positive growth, such as Raški and Pcinski, so where the number of newborns is greater than the number of deaths. During the transition, this difference increased further. The biggest differences relate to demographic characteristics, human and educational potential, economic structure and efficiency, as well as the conditions of social and economic infrastructure. Despite these alarming indicators, no government has dared since 2000 to carry out this fundamental decentralisation. Partly because of objective circumstances, and partly because of these fears and discussions that are being conducted today, which were being conducted as we talked about the Statute of Vojvodina and the transfer of jurisdiction. It's that fear that decentralisation, that regionalisation could cause separatism. Just as I said, regionalisation is a democratic response to any form of separatism that could appear in Serbia. To repeat, Serbia will not be divided by regions, even if they were statistical, it will share poverty if we do not do something. A candidate for membership in the European Union, and Serbia has largely defined this as becoming, by submitting to the candidacy at the end of last year, expected to do exactly this statistical regionalisation, the internal division of regions in line with regionalisation of the European Union within two years of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Because today the European Union is resting on the philosophy of Euroregionalism as a form of cross-border integration of neighbouring areas, districts and regions. Many countries have been on their way to the European Union through the process of structural reforms and adjustments, achieving different regionalisation models. We do not need to argue about how many regionalisation models within the Member States of the European Union are, nor should we copy those models. We should do what is best for Serbia. It is possible that these models are good, they may be bad, but we will only be able to identify ourselves what is best for Serbia without simply copying someone else's experiences. Brussels supports the creation of the region, because they are a prerequisite for the use of funds available to Member States, which are structural funds, as well as candidate countries, are pre-accession funds. I will remind all of us that the Assembly of European Regions is an important body, that it was founded in 1985 and that so far there are over 270 representatives, and 270 regions are included in it. As far as Serbia is concerned, such an option is only given to the Vojvodina. Vojvodina is a member of the European Regional Assembly, while the rest of Serbia sounds ugly, but at this point it is called "the rest of Serbia", must be previously territorially and administratively reorganised to obtain that right. The fact that two thirds of the European budget goes to regional programmes shows that regions are a very important factor in development in the EU. In the first phase, the European Fund for Reconstruction and Development was donated as a complement to national grants and was allocated as subsidies or as direct grants of fixed quotas. However, since many regions have failed to achieve sustainable development, the Union has changed its way of giving funds, introduced a project financing method that directs funds to users, citizens. That principle of project financing becomes a rule. It encourages the autonomous and active, sustainable development of a particular region, and thus our future statistical regions, through their national development agencies, will have to learn to compete with projects, in order to get and withdraw funds from pre-accession funds that will be available to them. This will boost competition, and only quality can come out of competition. Now while we are waiting for the EU to fund a balanced regional development, we should ask ourselves what we can do ourselves and are we ready for the whole of Serbia to become a truly decentralised country? Here, for starters, what would it be like for local self-government to be returned to property, which, without explanation and without compensation, was taken away from them back in 1995. I can understand everything, and our political differences and the fight for voters, but in this assembly there are representatives of all municipalities from Serbia, so rarely when I have a chance to hear from anyone – to ask the Ministry of Finance to put the Public Property Bill on the agenda. He doesn't have to support the draft law that the G17 Plus MP has put in the process, none of you are asking, but you're asking the finance ministry to get the public property law back in the process as soon as possible, so that the municipalities can get their property back. Is it possible that no one cares about doing this as soon as possible? By the way, this law that we have passed in the procedure is not our creation, but the law that has been done by the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, which was held for a year in public debate, which was then on the Ministry's website for another year. What we did was take it off the site and put it in the process. Now they have come to believe that the law in some parts is anti-constitutional, precisely because of the Law on the transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina. I am not an expert in constitutional law, nor can I comment on the objections made, but what I can and will do on behalf of all those who are silent, and come from many municipalities in Serbia, I come from the city of Belgrade, that is to put into the public property law procedure as soon as possible, which would bring property back to municipalities in Serbia – because there is no development without property, and without the development of this dreary picture of Serbia on the country of the largest regional differences in Europe will become even more dreary. When we talk about regionalisation and decentralisation, they need to strengthen democracy and bring benefits to both the state and society in general. Well, it's just that a centralised state has been assessed as the foothold of corruption, as the main source of corruption, while corruption at lower levels of government is not only more bearable, but easier to deal with. All parts of Serbia should reach the level of development needed to join the EU. The only way to do that is through a broad public debate about what kind of decentralisation model we need and what kind of regionalization model we need. Because all analyses suggest that the economic functions of the state must be decentralised, that the arguments for decentralisation are convincing, and that the effect – better quality of public services and greater efficiency. Serbian citizens and their local communities should stop being only passive observers of central state actions, they should actively engage in all decision-making processes. Again, I think perhaps naively that this is the goal of all of us sitting in this room on behalf of the citizens of this country. This law goes in that direction, but of course it is not enough to pass a law on regional development, to introduce statistical regions, above all political will is needed. Above all, a consensus is needed. The G17 Plus Party is prepared to work with all parliamentary parties, discuss, debate in such a normal, cultural and civilised way as to what kind of decentralisation and regionalisation model corresponds to Serbia or listen to the arguments of those who are against, even if those who were in favour of regionalisation by 2006, for political and administrative regionalisation, but who for their own reasons gave up the concept. The regions themselves in the EU, which is by themselves a decentralised democratic society, have the right to enter into international or inter-regional agreements. In Serbia, that right was only given to Vojvodina, so when we talked about the Statute, it caused great controversy here -- how Vojvodina can make international agreements, so in the Statute we called them "interregional" so that it might be clearer to everyone what it refers to. If this is the right of Vojvodina, I think other regions in Serbia should have that right, because through this very international co-operation we will raise the capacity of our regions, learn something new, and what is even more important through this co-operation, through these projects will reduce unemployment and reduce poverty. This should be our primary goal and basic mission in the further period of work, because only one such modern decentralised Serbia will be able to reduce these incredible regional differences and the depopulation of the population and the fact that many cities, towns, towns and villages remain unoccupied.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38327	Mr. Nikolic, what's the basis of the call?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38328	You hurt a member in 101 when you didn't give me the right to a replica. It is truly unbearable for you to ignore the warning that the MP is seeking the right to reply and to give the word to a speaker who speaks normally according to the agenda point and it takes 20 minutes. You even hurt the Rules of Procedure when you said that anyone who explains the breach of the Rules of Procedure can't cause a replica. Imagine what I could say to you right now by explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure without you having the right to a replica. Mr. Senic spoke to me personally at least ten times by name and last name. I can't believe you didn't read that member of the Rules of Procedure saying that I was entitled to a replica. Why are you doing this? I don't get it. Why are you raising the atmosphere in this room? It's enough that the G17 plus sits there. That's enough for a bad atmosphere, and now you're still using it, you're abusing that place where you're sitting to discriminate against me, so you don't give me the right to talk, to make some roughness, to prove that I'm just like that, so maybe they'll say I haven't changed. You've heard how many times I've been mentioned and you say - you don't have the right to a replica, the gentleman explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't do that, if you don't want to give us a word, say it. I won't give you another word, we won't even enter the hall. We're dealing in the field, we're working with Serbian citizens. We don't change the laws every three months, proving that the previous one was the best, and now even better than him, except that one was inapplicable. As for your relationship with the Russian Federation, I can't believe you admit that you were against that contract without saying one single word because you stayed in the government, stayed to share those ministerial chairs and that cake called the budget. Be in charge, sell, borrow, spend, stay even though you are the largest Serbian... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38329	Time! The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, at first I'm going to refer to one sentence, in fact a few words from a sentence that you said today, which is some moral boundaries. Of course, I'm not going to talk about moral boundaries from the aspect in which you mentioned them, I'm going to speak exclusively from the aspect of politics, your political position, your political manners and everything you've done as one vice-president of the government in the term of office of this government, and certainly all the governments you've participated in since 2001. You've somehow put a mortgage on even regional development, especially in recent years. When we spoke a few months ago about regional development and when MPs tried to apostrophe that it was a law on regionalisation, at one point you said that it was not a law on regionalisation but regional development. Nobody talked about regional development today, everyone's talking about regionalization, and we haven't heard one of your reactions. That could be one question for you. The second question for you is, are we going to hear the real reasons why you're changing this law by the end of the debate? All of what you said or most of what you said, all of what the representatives of the government said, the parties that make up the congregation majority, and they said today in favour of this law, they said seven months ago. Who should we trust or when we were deceived: then or today? When you lead us astray, today or are you deluding us, and apparently, you did, you brought us seven months ago? What we certainly do, before I go back to this law, we really can't accept, I'm not going to say whether you who represent the Government, not personally, if you don't feel a little bit, not to say shame, is someone from the government willing to accept part of the responsibility for what is happening in Serbia today, both in the context of regional development and in the context of privatisation or in any other context? It's either the 1990s or the global economic crisis. It is impossible to go so casually over the fact that you here inform us that 50% is below the republican average. Are you ready to accept responsibility for the fact that it is? We can't hear that from you or any of the other ministers from your government. That's what really creates a single dose of revolt when we listen to you. Then you rise up and criticize the opposition -- the opposition makes a riot, wants it to be politically malpractice, a real obstruction from here on out. There are 5,000 signatures collected against this law in Prepolje. Whoever collects them collected 5,000 signatures, and you can qualify that as much as you want, but that's reality and that's reality. Let's get back to this law. This law, I repeat, I hope that we will hear what the real reasons for its adoption are, is best proof that we were right about everything that we put in place as a criticism of this law in the process of adopting the basic version. Then you convinced us that it was a statistical regionalisation, that it was economic regionalisation and that there were no elements of regionalisation that we suspected existed. What happened after three months? Representatives of political parties who voted for your law have told you in public – we do not need economic and statistical, but political regionalisation. They tried to force the government to allow them to create political regions, or national regions. It was by those who voted in favour of the law, which you defended from having any elements or administrative or political. It's the best proof we've ever been right about. This is your answer to such requests. By responding to these demands, to the political demands of regional and local parties, you have made your own concept of regional development of the Republic of Serbia, even though we are against both the first version and against this version. We promote and advocate a completely different concept of regional development. But from this law which is essentially the opposite, except in one thing, the law that you all adopted together here seven months ago, it's just one thing in common, and that's something you don't want to hide, that this could be the basis for political regionalization. What we don't need and what the SRS is up against. This does not mean that we should not work in a function of equal regional development or regionalisation, but functional regionalisation. There's a question now. Today, journalists are asking a question, it's happening in the Assembly, what's going on – are we destroying the dignity of the Assembly? Do we know what level the Parliament's dignity is at? And the procedural things destroy the dignity of the congregation; they destroy them when you change the law which one day they do not apply in practice. I'm asking you now, both you and the representatives of the majority and anyone who voted for the basic version of this law in July last year, what are the practical experiences of applying the laws you're changing today? Any law that changes in one congregation is likely to result, if so called, in the accumulation of certain experiences through its application in practice. I'm asking you now what it is that is a bad or good experience based on which you are today accessing these changes? You don't have to give me an answer, let someone who raises their hand for these changes and supplements. It's something that destroys dignity, not just insults, heavy accusations or accusations without evidence, as you say. This essentially, in a crucial way, destroys dignity. My question is now – how many regional development agencies have you formed after the adoption of the basic version of the law? How many district associations have you formed? How many credentials have you divided or accredited? Mr Dinkic, can you count how many development documents have been created based on the basic version of this law, documents that represent the essence and key to the balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia? Do the representatives of the majority who voted in favour of this law know when the appointment of the Director of the National Regional Development Agency? Two months ago. You passed the law seven months ago, and the obligation provided for by the law is that all sublegal acts should be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of the law. Today we are talking about balanced regional development or regionalization and we are taking care of Prepolje, Kursumlia, Bor, Negotin or Prahovo. You've made this law completely public. This law means nothing. Two-thirds of the measures envisioning changes and additions can be implemented without this law, because there are other system laws that provide them and enable them. You don't need this nonsense at all, and the only thing that would make sense, Mr. Minister, is to withdraw this law, and to put aside the law that you passed seven months ago, so that you would really make and secure a political consensus and in such an atmosphere, access regionalisation or decentralisation, or establish even regional development. It is the only thing that makes sense and which is strategic, which can see Serbia in the medium or long term. This from today to tomorrow, this political procedure of yours within the majority, the abolition of some fires, unreasonable political ambitions, local and regional character, the butchers of Serbia. This has nothing to do with regional development. Do you know why that is? Here, I have a list of the 2010 budget papers. This is a document that the Government of the Republic of Serbia presented to MPs at the beginning of the year, and it illustrates in the best possible way, through figures and through concrete data, how much you are truly committed to regional development. This table refers to 2008 and talks about the effects of applying tax incentives on profit tax in 2008. A few days ago, amendments to the law were here on the agenda. These are 2008 data, which has been incomparably better since 2009, and you have to admit it will be better since 2010, when it comes to economic parameters. The amount of the reduction for profit achieved in the newly established business unit in underdeveloped areas is in millions of dinars, and you know how many are zero. You have subsidies for newly established legal entities based on underdeveloped areas in free zones, again in millions of dinars – zero. It's your commitment to regional development, you and your government. Now we are listening here to European standards meet again and that, in accordance with them, we will have a chance to vote for this law. Anything is possible in Serbia. In Serbia, you can promise 1,000 euros in action, and you share 1,000 dinars, and you have no idea that you are offering a resignation because of it. Do you know what was going on, Mr. Minister, about that? People gave up their actions in companies where they left for 20 and 30 years, because they received 200 or 300 euros in those 20 and 30 years, they gave up to earn or invest, which is said to be 500-600 euros in my neighborhood. They gave up their stock in their companies to get 1,700 dinars for the New Year and to be happy as little children. In this country alone, it's exulting on subsidies, like state subsidies to Fiat, and then the IMF tells you that you should plan to avoid such subsidies. Am I wrong to tell you that? You mentioned earlier that the state had to intervene, so you touched the Shop. We'd better not tell you what the consequences of the Republic of Serbia's intervention in the Shop are. There, until yesterday, there were men from your party. It could no longer be put up with, nor could coalition partners have suffered those people down there. You'd better not leave and not realize what you've been through regional development, leaving your projects at the Shop. I have no intention of having such a discussion. We're just asking you to respect our dignity and our, say, intellectual level. We don't live in a third or fifth country, so we don't know what's happening to us. We would respect and commend if we recognized every good effort or your intention, but if you want us to recognize it in these laws, it's really pointless. What are you up to? Now you want to do some stock trading, you want to build a stock fund. That's the only thing we have that's tangible, real money from the Action Fund you're going to put under your control now. Mr. Dinkic, go private to the capital market. At least you as the manager of the year know what it takes and what's enough to build a private investment fund. You need expertise, it used to be a party password, and you need 50,000 euros. It's a minimum. If you don't have a loan, then you'll be in debt somewhere, it's at least the manner and practice you're promoting. Go to the capital market, you deal with it. Enough to trade with what is objectively not yours, and what is not yours, is either state or social, unfortunately, still, to your irresponsibility, it's nothing. That's what he wants to be bossed with, and he's got the housewives. That's our backup. Or do you go to corporate meetings with these changes and additions? You've announced, you've remembered now, now you're going to privatize public enterprises, you're going to change their legal form, and you're going to make the assessment you need, which you don't need to privatize, and how it's going to go. You're talking about Telecom. How much controversy in public about it is open. To believe that these things are clean, that purpose is pure, we really can't. Don't mind us, but we can't. As far as the SRS is concerned, we believe that the only one for Serbia is the acceptable model of the so-called SRS. Regionalisation of the concept of functional regionalisation, where regions will have a purely functional character. It's the only way to rule out regional development policy. The model implemented through the engagement of science, primarily spatial planning, and this country has constitutional and other legal powers to deal in an adequate and complete way with defining development documents at local, regional and national level. There is no better area to see problems more adequately in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia than spatial planning. It is the only way to put all sectoral policies into function of developing one area, and industry, and buildings, and agriculture, and protecting the environment, and demographic movements, and culture, and tourism and everything else. It's the only thing that unites everything and puts it into function in one space. But you have to know, Mr. Dinkich, if you don't already know that, it doesn't take the limits. Regional development does not tolerate the boundaries written on cards. It endures and accepts exclusively the analytical concept of defining development, through tables, through diagrams, through indices and through text. It's something we think Serbia can help and what the whole normal and developed world does, like Serbia won't be as long as it's run by you, not by you personally, but by your entire government. These are documents that are flexible and these are documents that are subject to change, and with these changes you can much easier act on all differences or deviations that occur on the ground, regional deviations, excessive metropolisation, everything that you like to mention here and what you're calling for, but you don't have adequate solutions to correct it and to solve it. That's where we can't agree with you. We're not like each other because of that fact, but I repeat, we were right. The concept you offered in July was, first of all, political and administrative, and so on. By defending this concept here, for example, they called Germany. They didn't choose the means to justify it, and then the ones who voted made it up after three months. This is your answer to those ambitions today. We'd be happy if he was adequate, but he wasn't. He's not adequate and he won't close Pandora's box until the end, and we're not the ones from the opposition who heat fire on the ground, you're heating up with laws that don't pass that so-called. Your public debates, so when people get together and collect 5,000 signatures, you from the opposition are causing problems on the ground. One more thing that's very important, which you need to keep in mind. The concept of spatial planning, which has been defined through the Law on Planning and Construction, at the level of the region, has been fully devised by this. I'd just like to see what kind of character a regional spatial plan would be for the area from Kladov to my Surdulice or to the Shop or to Presevo, 500 kilometers. Therefore, with regret in the SRS, we have to conclude, this model of regional development with regional development has as much to do with Eskimo with the index on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38331	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38332	I'll take the opportunity to answer you. First of all, I think it is very important that the law avoids the formation of national regions, because I think that unlike you who may be in favour of national regions, it is good to avoid the formation of national regions. There was a danger of that being a problem in the previous law. This avoids it. Why and how do you avoid it? All nations are now in one region, literally all of them living in Serbia. All Hungarians are in one region, in Vojvodina. All Bosniaks, most Bosniaks are in one region, in Šumadia and western Serbia. All Serbs are in one region, Serbs from Prijepolje, Serbs from Užica, Serbs from Sapac and finally all Bosniaks, all Hungarians, all Serbs are in Serbia. I think this is a way not to divide, but to have all the nations in Serbia live normally and not to be statistics subject to division. The second thing, these regions are functional, much more functional than the previous law has given for avoiding the level of creation of regional agencies. I admit the mistakes, it was a mistake, that it was made except for national and seven more regional agencies, and only then the district associations, because then it was too much administration and there was whoever criticized it, and there were objections from the opposition, and the president of the ruling parties was right that it was unnecessary. It was too late to react with the amendment then, however, given that we decided to build instead of seven five regions, then it came to the turn that it was good that we had already heard legitimate remarks to adopt them no matter what seven months. Better seven months later than never. Also, I've already said that, I'm going to take the opportunity to repeat, as far as the spatial plan is concerned, it won't be the regions where spatial plans will be done but areas. Authorities are defined by statistics, and in this sense spatial plans will be made for individual areas, and each region consists of several areas. You're right, he can't have the same spatial plan for the Branic district, for eastern Serbia, for southern Serbia. It'll be special areas, each of them will have their own spatial plan. These were suggestions from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection that we have incorporated into this law. The authorities will be the basis for creating spatial plans. As far as the Regional Development Act is concerned, I think it's a good thing that this law avoids the formation of national regions, I think it's a good thing that these regions are more functional now. As for the development documents, you asked how many development documents were created under the previous law? Not one, you know that well, could not have arisen since institutions started to form only at the beginning of this year, at the end of last year. Noting that the number of regions was not resolved, because this was the case, after the first version of the law was passed. In this regard, the first development documents will be used to prepare the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia, following the adoption of this law, you are right, so far no development documents have been established under this law, but will be used for the 2011 budget. As for some of the other objections you've made, you're wrong when you say the IMF has criticised the subsidies we're giving to Fiat. On the contrary, he is one of the institutions that highlights the Fiat project as one of the rescue solutions for raising exports to Serbia and that ten Fiats in Serbia would not have a problem that we are all discussing now, this is the problem of changing the model of economic growth, moving from the domestic economy, which makes up 80% of GDP, and we form only 20% of GDP from exports. We should form over 50% in exports to have a long-term sustainable economy. Also, you asked – do we personally and also the Government accept responsibility for the current difficult situation? I've never run away from responsibility. I don't run away now. I'm not responsible for everything that's been inherited. Regional disparities are not made even in these ten years, but have been made for decades and I am not responsible for them, but I am responsible, and I also tell you to all MPs, unless these disparities are reduced by the end of the term of office of this government. I accept the responsibility of my own personal and ministry, which I am headed to reduce disparity in Serbia. All I'm doing is making it, even in the Shop that you mentioned, which I don't know what quality the local authorities have, but I know they have a very good new baby cot factory that we funded from the Development Fund, which has hired extra people last year and bought modern equipment. I know that a similar factory will come down this fall in Kursumlia, that this week eight million euros are granted to Šik Kopalnik, or Simpa, to build a new lesonite factory, to modernise existing other facilities so that 400 people can be employed in Kursumlia, who have not worked for years, that I will do the same for Prepolje and all the devastated municipalities, it is my task, because it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. If I don't contribute with my ministry what is my duty, I will bear responsibility and that responsibility will be both moral and political and I make it clear to you, but I cannot accept responsibility for the past and the fact that these disparities have been created for years. That's why this law was designed to create instruments that would gradually begin to reduce disparity among the poor and developed and not by words, but by part. Besides, you'll get a chance to see it in action in the next two years. Often, many in the past 10 years doubted what I was saying, criticized me. The more I did, the more they criticized me, the more it turns out. After all, all those who laughed did not end up showing that they were right, because you know yourself that all the people who were with me, and personally, we are very persistent, we want to help the underdeveloped, and that's what we're going to do. As for the action, and you mentioned it, I'm not running away from any questions because I have nothing to run from. It's true that so far we've only divided 1,700 dinars per man, that's a fact, because so much money was collected before the global economic crisis came in. I said in the opening address that about seven billion dinars were collected. As much as we've collected, we've divided the people and given NIS shares in nominal value of 2,500 dinars. I'm not the one who affected that price. This price was not made on the market, but in a political agreement that your party also supported. And you're in some way, at least for that one company, which is NIS, responsible for why nominal shares are worth 2.5 thousand dinars and not worth 10,000 dinars. The real price could have been four times higher. I bear responsibility as a minister, and I accept responsibility for the value of the actions to be received from Telekom Srbija, because it will be an international tender in all, I say, economic criteria. I'm convinced it's a company that can achieve value on the market where the price of shares will be appropriate. Of course, that all that we've done now, the merger of the stock fund and the privatisation register, is in place to increase the value of the free shares that citizens get. We've only just started the division, because only the NIS shares are divided and this one part of the cash. The following actions will now be taken by Telekom, the airport, next year's EPS, united this action. In the end, we'll see what it's worth. Of course, I'm not happy myself, as probably all those who love this country are not happy that the crisis is here and in the world, so the price of action generally falls, not just free. If Mercedes' actions fall 20 times in the last two years, if Simens' actions fall, logically, the actions of some of our public enterprises are not worth the same as they were two years ago. The fact is that as the stock prices of all the companies in the world rise, which will be a gradual process, the price of our companies' actions will rise, so that in the end, the last one laughing again, the sweetest one will laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38333	Mr. Dragan Stevanović, replica. Although it was clear, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38334	I agree, there is not much room in Serbia and no reason to laugh. It's more for some other emotion, but we need to objectively sort things out. Mr Dinkic, the SRS is not in favour of forming national regions. We advocate the concept of regional, or balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, as defined by the Constitution. If it can be called regionalisation, then it is a regionalisation that will only be defined by development documents. When we talk about the development papers, we either didn't get along well, or you didn't read your law. I cannot allow spatial plans to come from the development documents defined by this law, but you have written that you will write and create development documents based on valid spatial plans until new ones are adopted. That order can't go like that. Space planning doesn't know the area as a category. He knows local self-government, protected area, region and national level of planning. What's up with the IMF, what aspect do I challenge? It's nice of you to give subsidies. Fiat says it will give you 200 to that year and only 99 million. Promises that by the end of this year there will be so many thousands of vehicles. There's nothing out of it and it's unthinking the subsidies you're doing. I don't dispute the desire to be in Kragujevac or anywhere better and for Fiat to work. After all, we all benefit from that. But it's something that's going completely to you. In the end, what I have to tell you is that the perception of the present and the past you and I have a different one. The SRS would like you to tell her – how long does this present take? When does an election cycle end, some new election cycle, or since 2001? Where's the past and where's the present from your position? This present has been extended to you much or never to begin. Of course, as far as NIS is concerned, we have supported the agreement with NIS, we are proud of it, but like you, we have not promised a thousand euros in the election campaign, and it has failed and none of it has been. Therefore, there is a great difference in your responsibility and ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38335	On the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Privatisation, opinion was given by MP Milan Veselinovic. The board later ended up working so you have the right to speak now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, on the Privatisation Committee, I have issued an opinion on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Agency. These few minutes, I'm going to try to explain the reasons why I did it on the board. It is known to Serbian citizens that since 2000 Serbian radicals, headed by Professor Vojislav Seselj, we have been warning and talking about the devastating policy led by the then DOS or as we have called them "domestic". Analyzing the year by year, it's been really confirmed that you're a real "dosmania." You're worse than ag and escape, if we look at what you've done in the Republic of Serbia. Prof. Vojislav Seselj told Serbian citizens until 2003 about the devastating government, especially in the area of the Law on Privatisation and the establishment of various agencies related to certain laws. It is normal that in 2004, you have lost the election, but has consolidated part of your "supervisors" and continued with the aim of some patriotism further to the government, in order for you to bridge today again under some kind of democracy, to rob Serbia and lead the Serbian people to a beggar stick. The law on privatisation and the privatisation agency is, in fact, a law that has devastationed the state of Serbia in an economic sense, economically and otherwise. For this, Mr. Minister, you bear the greatest responsibility, as well as the Privatisation Agency. As a member of the Privatisation Committee, I followed these two, two and a half years of what was going on there and I came to the conclusion that you first came across those companies that were productive, strong companies. Are they cements, sugars, water, strong manufacturing companies in terms of industry, textile industries. Today, only part of unprivatised companies remains in Serbia and those no one will. I'm going to mention here on today's Privatisation Committee in Prepolje Municipality. There were 12 or 13 privatisations on the agenda at once. Almost the entire economy of Prepolje is now in the tender. What's that, which is why it wasn't a systematic piece-by-piece, but the Precipice has been going around for years to come today? You know that the Privatisation Agency has so far annulled over 150 privatisations, but that other privatisations are in critical condition, because these people of your people, the tycoons who bought the largest corporations, the largest of our production systems, they robbed what was left, decimated the workers, and simply these workers are today social problems and cases. I'll also mention the case of my New Market, where the textile and shoe industry was developed. Today, it doesn't even work in full two thousand, and sometimes, until 2000, about 12.5 thousand workers worked there. Today we have 25 thousand unemployed at the Bureau, and I say, it works about two thousand. There were strikes and shoelaces, textiles. They're strikein' "Skra Metal" today. These people have been on strike for 15 days. None of the authorities speak to these people. Why, Mr. Minister, don't you see what's happening all over Serbia? Tell us here, who is responsible for these people strike hunger, whether they are opposition or you? Normally, you're responsible, Mr. Minister, because that one cut off the finger, and those who strike in the New Market today outside the strike room have highlighted the deaths, both Muslims and Serbs, means they won't live out of there until their demands are met. (President: Time. I thank you. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38337	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38338	Of course, I'm not responsible for what you're talking about, because if someone's strikein' for unpaid earnings in the last 15 years, I can't be responsible for those who made the ambience to keep those companies from paying their profits, and that was the '90s. In particular, the companies you mention strike for outstanding earnings in the debt of one year since 1998, Raška, and moreover, this firm you spoke of has also been a long one for many years. I'm certainly not responsible for that. At that time, I wasn't even in any public office, I was working at the Faculty of Economics. I don't think it's right that you're just talking about the places where you live and then you say - Minister, you're not going to Serbia. Not all of Serbia is just Prepolje and Novi Pazar. Serbia consists of both Vojvodina and Sandzak, and western Serbia, Shumadija, southern Serbia. I'm going all over Serbia. It's not true, I'll tell you directly and clearly, no matter what it seems popular to you, that the whole concept of privatisation was wrong, it's not true. Of course, you have legal opinion, 80% of the cases have been successful privatisation, 20% of the contracts have been terminated. On these 20% cases, building a rule is not fair. But I can understand, and you're right, that for those 20% of bad contracts there are a lot of human fates to help and where to find a new solution, and you're right to do something about it. But surely many of these people who have not received salaries for tens of months, in Raška, for example, in the Ruška textile combination, would probably have changed to work in the Danube Nis industry, which is well privatized or in another company where wages are much higher than in the state sector. So it's not about the general process. Although I am not responsible for it, I want to protect this process because I was governor at that time when the law was passed, but today I would suggest the same law as it was proposed in 2001, knowing that the privatisation process is not perfect anywhere in the world, that it has created more good and less bad cases in all Eastern Europe and that it has therefore defined our Government properly for the process then in 2001. It's up to us now that what's wrongly done, not because of the state, but because people as humans aren't all capable of being entrepreneurs. You have people who wanted to be entrepreneurs, and they're not capable, of course they're going to ruin the company. You have cases that the insiders bought a company of people, for example, in Kursumlia, which was said, so they ruined it, but, say, they bought it internally in Backo Palanca, Synthelon, so here it is, now one of the most powerful companies is Synthelon, and now it's part of Target, a multinational company. Or "Tiger," it was also an insider privatisation and it was successful. So it depends on people, depends on the quality of people. I'm against it to generalize these things, but I'm here to solve the issue in Prepolje and Novi Pazar, but in a constructive way, to see what the exact problem is and to address it, and we're going to do it in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38339	Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, were submitted by the New Serbia, LDP, SPS-JS, Forward Serbia, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, G 17 plus, the SRS and the ZES Parliamentary Group. I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38340	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are today four extremely important legislative proposals. Given that, in the opening statement, my respected colleague Kasalovic said a lot about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development, I will put the accent in my presentation on two legislative proposals, and this on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Privatisation, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Action and Money Compensation, which citizens make in the privatisation process. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency is another law on the alignment of text with the amendments already made to the system laws and together with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right of Free Action, regulates the establishment and operation of the Action Fund, which we find extremely important. The Privatisation Agency, as mentioned among other things in the opening statement, was established nine years ago as a specialised state-owned institution to conduct, initiate, promote and control the privatisation process of enterprises. What I'm trying to say is that it seems to me that the Privatisation Agency in the last nine years, in the past time period, has had a lot more success in promoting, initiating and implementing privatisation than in the very control of corporate privatisation. This finding is supported by what has already been said here, numerous protests, numerous complaints from workers who are employed in privatised companies, which result in numerous strikes, which are once again turning into blockades of institutions, road infrastructure blockades, which is certainly not good. The worst part is that workers' actions are justified in most cases and end in the end and result in the termination of privatisation, the termination of the contract and the cancellation of privatisation. I agree with you, Mr. Minister, that the situation is extremely difficult and I just want to add that the situation in the companies that are privatised and where legitimate protests of workers occur is also extremely difficult, in the sense that the property has been sold out or destroyed, in the sense that in most cases the earnings of employees have not been paid, in the sense that there are no contributions for health, pension, disability insurance, etc., you are well aware of the everyday topics which, unfortunately, we all face together. You cited 1998 and privatisation. You said it's been going on since the '90s, and you set a concrete example in 1998. I have a stenogram in front of me from the meeting of the City of Valjev Assembly, the city I come from, and I don't have a problem with pointing out the problem they're facing, I think we all come from certain districts, we all come from cities, from municipalities, we represent these citizens who voted for us in the elections and we should tell us what the citizens themselves are saying, in particular, representatives of the unions, representatives of the strike committees are saying. I have in my hands a stenogram from the 15th session of the City of Valjev Assembly, a session where the executive and assembly authority of the town of Valjev strike committee, i.e. representatives of the trade union ''Gradac', was once the most famous factory for the production of screw goods familiar with the problem they face. The factory was privatised in 2006 and is run by the management board by the factory today, which does not even have the necessary minimum for the number of board members. At the moment the factory was privatized there was no obligation, today workers have not received a salary since September, which is content, among other things, a stenogram. I don't want to talk about the whole content, I'm pulling out segments that matter. Today, workers have not received a salary since September, today an account is in a 26 million dinar blockade and simple workers are asking what remains to be done in the next period of time. As I was saying, the situation in these companies where the protests appear is difficult, as you yourself have observed. You also said, you said it in percentage terms, out of the total number of privatisations, you said 20% were unsuccessful, 80% were successful. So, I think about 2400 privatised enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to 500 companies, the contract is broken when we talk about privatisation, it's about that 20%. I'm saying this for one simple reason because I think that the Privatisation Agency should put a special accent on the control of privatized enterprises in the next period. If we do not have that control of privatised enterprises in the next period of time, it seems to me that this kind of privatisation will destroy the Serbian economy. So you're absolutely right, each of us has the right to his political position when it comes to the Privatization Act. We specifically believe that this and this kind of privatisation law is not good and that it is precisely the result of this law that is the situation in which the state is present, and that, unfortunately, in the situation of strikes and protests, the state can only be a mediator between workers on the one hand and the one who privatised, or the owners who privatised the company on the other hand. I didn't accidentally cite these findings. I cited them on purpose, and keeping in mind the serious tasks that the Privatisation Agency will carry out in the next period of time, in line with the changes in the system laws that have been implemented, as well as the exercise of citizens' rights to equality through the distribution of actions of the Action Fund of citizens. What I'm also saying is that we support all the activities leading to the rationalisation of the state administration and the unification of state affairs, which are the demands of modern economies. It's something that's completely logical and perfectly normal in a period of economic crisis. Also, the existence of parallel institutions that have different governance bodies is unwarranted, because then the fundamental question is, in fact, the purpose of their existence. We support, of course, the harmonisation of provisions with the Bank's Bank. What we still have some doubts about, and we think that this should be considered is that the level of commission is prescribed by the Minister in charge of economic and regional development affairs. In the very explanation of this law, it states that the costs of the liquidator are considerable, and that it has the right to a special fee resulting from the sale of assets, i.e. by commission. This observation does not apply specifically to you. Here we should also think about the future period of time and the ministers who will come after you, the governments of the RS who will come after the first next parliamentary regular elections. We simply believe that giving authority to an individual, in this case a minister, in a certain context can lead to negative effects. Perhaps it would be more realistic, perhaps it would be better if the commission were determined by the RS government, and at the proposal of the resolution minister. Another important reason for amending this law is the abolition of the Action Fund and the establishment of a stock fund, in line with the amendments and additions to the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. As is said among other things, the core activity of the stock fund is financial possession, and the primary task is to issue and distribute actions to citizens. The operations of this fund, and that is said among other things, is taken over by the Privatisation Agency, which is adequately equipped, which does not require special staff. She does not need additional funds, and that is something that we support and that is in the light of this bill and that is all that needs to be endured. As a social justice party, a party that advocates a system of equal chances for all citizens, of course we also support the right to equality. It's also a constitutional category. This right should allow for the realisation of the Privatisation Act. This law gives citizens the right to cash compensation on the basis of the sale of shares or shares in the privatisation register, as well as the transfer without compensation of shares primarily of state-owned public undertakings. So, the task of this fund is to sell shares from the privatisation register, as well as the portfolio of the action fund, and out of these assets and actions of other public enterprises, funds for the issue of shares are provided, and this is determined very precisely by this legislative proposal. This enables equality of all citizens with regard to the right to action without compensation. These actions, I want to conclude with this, should have a real value that cannot be bid on political needs, nor should they be manipulated when citizens sell them on the securities market or directly to the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38341	National MP Miroslav Markicevic. After that, the People's Parliament of Miroslav Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38342	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this, I hope, still a direct transmission. I'm going to comment on a few draft laws within point one. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act, a logical question of citizens who do not have to be professional and informed, and professional such as Mr. Minister, to ask – what was wrong with that proposal with seven regions? What is the reason why this law is passed? You should be honest and tell the citizens, first of all, of what this is all about. Minority party representatives have blackmailed the government. Although the two ministers, Mr. Minister, I suppose, were present in the media, at which they voted, I mean two ministers from the Bosniak national minority, and then it turns out they didn't know what they were voting for. In my opinion, about these important laws, about decentralisation, and that's one of the NS's programming goals, except we think that was the first thing that was supposed to be done, especially for me, the Chacans they call, I mean in a positive sense, the local patriot, that it was meant to go from below, from the municipalities. Return to the municipalities of intelligence, authority and property, and then create, as you say, statistical regions. To continue with that political deal, which I have no other word to use, it was just a reminder, but a disgrace. Is it true, Mr. Minister, that the price of what you are trying to do today is convincing to explain that this is good with five regions, so it was recently with seven regions, that it is the price that the Srebrenica Declaration should not be mentioned – genocide, especially since it is clear to all of Serbia that a poll and a referendum of 100 per cent of the Bosniak nationality would be for that declaration to say - genocide, as 90% of Serbian citizens would probably not be – genocide? Then a deal was made. It worked out with citizens of Serbia and Bosniak and Serbian nationalities for political interest, which is the survival of the government. I can see from this bill that neither the citizens of Bosniaks nor the citizens of Serbian nationality are equally threatened by the conditions of life in which they live and they know it best. So, when it was, Mr. Minister, a public debate about this current bill, today you said you'd go to Uzice to explain... What can you explain to them when you adopt? You should have gone to Prepolje, Nova Varoš, Priboj, Užice and explained to the citizens, gathered representatives of political parties, NGOs, citizens and explained what this is, what an advantage this is and what a blessing it is for them. Like this, what do we got? We have decisions from the SO that we respect local self-government. Several municipalities in the Zlatibor County have declared themselves against the proposal of this law and all your accusations at the expense of the opposition that those cheap political points collect into the water when you see how many citizens sign and all parties and NGOs participate in the collection of signatures. Let's just say, in Prepolje, that's what the SPS and the pensioner's party do. And after Mr. Milicevic's discussion on privatisation and on this law, I'm very interested in how he's going to vote when it's voting day, because he was very critical of some privatisations? Mr. Minister, it seems to me that you have said in one replica to a fellow SRS member that all Hungarians will be in one statistical region, all Bosniaks in one. Does anyone have a right to ask for Serbs? Does anyone ask who they want to be in the region in? You have unequivocally confirmed then that it has turned out, perhaps it is not your intention, to have national minorities in some regions, but to be all together. However, you told Hungarians that everyone in one statistical region and Bosniaks are the majority. I think that the citizens down in Serbia, as we say in the province, are not interested in these statistical regions at all, they are interested in how they live at the moment. I say they live equally badly, whether he is Hungarian, Bosniak or Serbian. They live badly because of laws like this, which are actually one fog, which is driven by citizens to do something, and they're getting worse and worse. One minister courageously declares that 690,000 Serbian citizens are currently living under every existential minimum. Someone calls it the poverty line, and at the same time in election campaigns, and even in Arangelovac, they share some stoves. Mr. Minister, can you, as Deputy Prime Minister, ask him at the next session of which the money is divided, is this assigned to citizens who really need it at this time, or is it divided only where some extraordinary local elections are? As for the amendments to the Privatisation Act, Mr. Minister, when you say that statistics can explain everything, statistics can make it look like the root of nine four, there are such mathematical operations, but because of such mathematical operations, many people have lost their bread, on the street. When you say 20% compared to 80%, as you say, successful privatisations, how many people in that 20%? Well, there are ten families left without bread by someone's mistake, not their fault. People came to work and worked. We can't say now and you can say it was 15 years ago. Well, you've been in power for seven years. And New Serbia has been with you for three or four years. What are we gonna do with these people? A colleague from Novi Pazar, Veselinovic, said they seriously think of the worst that no one wants to happen, but we can't ignore these people. It's not their fault they're in this situation. Do you think some short-term loan with a grace period of one year of 300,000 dinars, about a year or so, in the spring elections, so you don't have to pay it back, you think there's something that can be improved? Well, it will take credit to those who already stand well, as the people say, because it turns out that the purpose of many laws that you are proposing as one of the leaders of the promotions of liberal capitalism whose motto turns out that those who have, is even more, and those who don't have to have any less. Why don't you pick up the laurels here today after the painful scenes before noon and applause, why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia -- here's the 300,000, lift everybody up, you'll be able to get back to free action. Mr. Minister, you promised a thousand euros for every free action. You made Serbia stand on Christmas Eve hundreds of thousands of people for 1,700 dinars. We've all been embarrassed completely. It was grief. These people need someone to explain now what's going on with 1,000 euros. That's your pre-election promise either. If someone contributed to not fulfilling that pre-election promise, then resign, let the snap elections be held, and we'll see what the citizens say, whether it's your fault because they don't have 1,000 euros or someone else's fault. As for the privatisation of Telekom, that's what you mentioned. Well, is there any MP here who can keep quiet that a shamelessly increased phone tax or a subscription is 100%? Why? Because it needs to be privatised, so that 70-80m euros, as we don't know, will be a tender, who will get it, not knowing Serbia, to buy them another 80m euros. So, 458 dinars from our mother, the poor grandmothers who are supposed to call the granddaughter in Belgrade, did she get 6 or 7, and you did not punish Markic's MP whether his account is 1,500 or 2,000 dinars, he has to pay, and what is this people going to do? Where exactly did you think of Telekom to privatize, why don't you go, what counterpart Veselinovic said, to Novi Pazar to offer a solution there? One more thing, Mr. Minister. Is this addition to the Regionalisation Act or is it a new law, is that for another political deal? Did something happen to you like in Ukraine, a party of the region, and that is not meant to form a new party of the region, yours and some people who support you? I don't think so. If it wasn't so sure, you wouldn't be opening four-mile section of the highway in Kragujevac, which has already been opened several times. Do we need to show video, do the papers from the press? What do we have there now? Poor citizens, old people, those who can't cross the street. It was supposed to be made overpass first, so people could cross over. These are very difficult questions, Mr. Minister. As for the insults received by the president of New Serbia, he went to draw blood into two institutions and we will see, and some have called on whether the exact folk sayings are short-legged or whether they are telling the truth of a goat or a horn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38343	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38344	I don't know what you meant when you last said this. Whoever was in this room saw that I didn't respond to any of the comments Mr. Ilic made this morning, but I must say right away that this is the first thing you've made really cheap speculation, there's nothing to do with the Regional Development Act with the Srebrenica Declaration. I am the one who proposed the Regional Development Act after consulting coalition colleagues, and I did not personally participate in writing the Srebrenica Declaration, but my colleagues from the Parliament club participated in it. So I'd know for sure if it had something to do with it. It's really speculation. I don't think such things should spread at all because it's very cheap. Also, when you talk about someone making people wait on the bank's credit counters, I don't know who's pushing them. The government has given people the opportunity to decide if they want to take loans, it has given them the opportunity if they want to take free action because they are free, and that some people want to take them, and credits, and free actions, and what they are waiting for, it is really neither the government nor anyone else's responsibility. This is all on a voluntary basis. People are individuals who decide for themselves. If anyone needs a stove, it's normal to buy it if the war is 90 dinars a month. I'm proud that we've given such conditions to allow in these difficult conditions for people to buy a washing machine, a stove, to pay 90 dinars for the first year, and then 700 dinars a month and so on for three years. I wish this could take such a long time. Unfortunately, these are intervention measures. I said, "I wish we could," better if we didn't have to introduce such measures, but generally because of the crisis, we introduced them, aware of the difficult situations, so that we could at least allow a few people to meet their basic needs. I don't want to comment much on the anxiety that comes out about a party whose head I'm on. Let everyone keep an eye on what he's doing. I'm a supporter of that. I don't want to worry about what you're doing. I'll take care of what I do myself, what my colleagues do. The results in Negotina said we got 9%, and your party one, but don't make a parallel with the laws. As for the criticism of opening four kilometers of highways on the Kragujevac-Batočina section, it is better to open four times four kilometers and end the entire highway than not to start a single kilometer of highway. When you talk about an overpass for these people who protest, and there must be no pulsism. Is that why if ten houses have a problem crossing the highway they need to build a more expensive overpass? I don't think that's right. A new pedestrian crossing is likely to, given that such a solution is cheaper. Someone's gonna find a solution. In any case, it's better to do it this way than to promise to build bridges in places that don't have rivers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38345	Right on the replica Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38346	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you don't understand at all in parliamentary practice how the government works. You don't realize that the role of the opposition is to watch what you do. You tell your fellow Messengers today for the second or third time, ‘Be mindful of your affairs.’ If the opposition works badly or has a bad policy, it won't come to power. Maybe it's not too bad, Mr. Minister. But what the government is doing, in which your party participates, is peeling the skin off Serbian citizens. We have to say that, Mr. Minister. I didn't say that the citizens were waiting in line for loans, you didn't get it very well, these 300,000 dinars. I said they were waiting for Christmas Eve, that they were humiliated. If nothing else, we have received one statistical data – hundreds of thousands of citizens on Christmas Eve were waiting for your free action, which was reduced to the poor 1,700 dinars. Why did these people wait for Christmas Eve, Mr. Minister, what do you think? Because it was the only money they had. Do you have personal responsibility for this, because of the situation these people live in? You now think that here in some political bickering, with tiny jumps, how much did anyone get, etc., so now I have to say that you in Arangelovac won't cross the censorship and New Serbia will have 15%, etc., so what benefit do citizens have from that, Mr. Minister? The government is wondering. The government is responsible for how the people live. That's what you need to answer. Why did you raise Serbia in the entire Zlatibor County? Why is your frame, so it's not at least who could come as Chief of the Goldibor County? It may be the largest county by the number of municipalities, Mr. Minister, if you didn't know. There are ten municipalities. So you hid your resignation for a month, for God's sake, as for personal reasons, as well as Jelasic. An honest man came out and said. He's not the only one in G17 at Uzic. I have a lot of friends and friends there and I've been asking them for days—aman, brothers, are you going to vote for this? He's got respect for party discipline and party responsibilities, but he's got a place where there's a limit. You can't trade people. Why didn't you go to Uzice to tell them what you're telling us here today? To convince them. Maybe you're right, and then you'll see what they tell you from your party. What did the chief tell you in his statement? Don't tell the truth. He resigned because of this law because a man decided to stay in Uzica. I call on all fellow Members of the People's Parliament, especially from Zlatibor County – think about it a little bit. I burned myself, Mr. Minister, as a working child. I trusted you too, and Djelic, and Vlahovic and voted in favour of the Privatisation Act. I lit 200 candles in churches, let him punish me, don't punish my children. So I call upon fellow Messengers of the people, you who live in Uzica, and in Priboi, and in Novi Varosha, think carefully. You won't be ambassadors for a hundred years. We all need to go back to that people and live with them and explain to them why they live like this. This law on regionalisation is political trade and trade for a naked survival in power. But maximum, two more years, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38347	Three minutes. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Miroslav Pejica, and after it is a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38348	I call for breach of Article 104(2). I think Mr Markicevic needs some additional information, primarily as regards the resignation of Chief of the Zlatibor Management District and I think it will help him in his further discussions. Mr. Novakovic, otherwise head of the Zlatibor Management District, resigned on February 10th. I would remind you that the Government adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act at its session on 11 March. So, the moment Mr. Novakovic resigned, he did not know what he would write in those amendments and additions to the new law and his basic reason for resigning is that two months after his appointment to the post, he had to fulfill the decision of the Resoring Ministry of State and local self-government to fire nine members, meaning nine employees in the Zlatibor Management District. As for your friends at Uzica, I know well who your friends are in Uzica and I can tell you that some of these friends will have significant problems in the coming period, primarily with the prosecution. When I talk about it, I think primarily of your director of the pharmacy in Užica, who was replaced last year, and in a report by the budgetary inspector for a year her rule states that she, on her own hand, took 800,000 drugs from the pharmacy. But not to spread the whole story, don't trust friends like that. There are many people in Užica who know what the MPs from Užica do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38349	Two minutes. Thank you, People's Messenger. There's no breach of Article 104. I take care of the order and make sure that the treatment between the MPs runs in a way that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is no way to know whether or not what one of the MPs is saying is true, as long as there is a fact that every MP answers whether or not they are true or not, or does not violate any of the members of the Rules of Procedure. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Mitrovica, I'm available to you here in front of the media and in front of the cameras. What you have to tell me in person, say it. What you said here, that's what you go to the D.A.'s office and tell me. I don't mind if everyone responds if they've done a misdemeanor. But you can't bury a political fact, and you're very ignorant, because you don't often answer and you haven't exactly gotten a routine as a national MP... (President: National MP, I now warn you of the compliance and respect of the rules laid down by our Rules of Procedure. ) No doubt it is good at least one thing, and that is that they have heard that you are from Užice and that you are addressing the citizens of Užica. But with any other incursions and insertions, you can't prevent one fact that I'm going to say: Mr. Novakovic, former head of the G17 Goldibor County, in all the media and on all the local televisions, said why he resigned. The first reason is the Regional Development Act, "because I disagree with the party's decisions and concessions made out of various political interests" – date 26. 3. 2010 Mr. Mitrovica, since you probably feel responsible for not having a little political control over it, you are now inserting other topics that have nothing to do with this topic. (President: National MP, for the second time I warn you that you are not allowed to judge what other faces think and feel. ) Therefore, a G17 man resigned, disagrees with the party chief, Dinkic, because of this law. An honest man, a Serb, will not participate in this. From a G17 man.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38351	National Messenger Miroslav Pejic, followed by Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38352	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a proposal for a law on regional development came before us last June, we felt that this law, along with all its possible strangers, was the first but very significant step in the process of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia. We agreed that this was the beginning of a very long process that would be upgraded, changed for the better and developed Serbia. As this was the first step, today we must not be surprised by the need for amendments to that law. The economy ministry, proposed by this law, was then faced with a very difficult and complex task of laying the legal foundations of the future decentralisation and regionalisation of the Republic of Serbia from a finally centralised arrangement. Most of us who make up part of this Parliament have agreed that the bill was, in its essence, good, and that the possible shortcomings that occur in its implementation will be removed, both in its legal form, for which this home is responsible and in the competent bodies for its implementation, starting with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through regional councils, to the units of local self-government. The original version of this law envisioned the division of the Republic of Serbia into seven statistical regions, which, in addition to their geographical differences, include major differences in the standard of living of citizens, infrastructure development and economic potentials. All of this provided opportunities for them to act far more operationally in finding common models to address priority problems from different areas. We agreed that the formation of a region based on the national or cultural specificities of some areas would not be good for Serbia, but only the formation of a region according to the criteria of natural economic continents has a perspective. In addition to such recorded needs, objective needs have also arisen for the amendments of individual members of this law, and they are presently in front of us today. The change from seven to five statistical regions has its advantages, which will first and foremost be seen in the fact that regions will be far more comparable by the number of inhabitants and thus by the level of earnings, by the number of unemployed persons and the like, which will in itself provide clear unequivocal indicators as well as how the state of Serbia and its competent institutions must intervene in certain regions to achieve a clear objective of this law, which is a balanced development of the whole of the Republic of Serbia. It is certainly important to point out that the changes cover the classification of regions by their development, so that in the future there will be developed regions, whose level of development is above the republican average of social gross product, and underdeveloped regions, whose level of development is below the republican average of social gross product. These changes will certainly not have a negative impact on the representation of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, as there will be 26 other members in the future National Council for Regional Development, next to the president, instead of 19 so far. I don't think there is a need in particular to clarify that the increased number will refer to a greater representation of regional representatives who, in addition to the resolution ministers and representatives of development institutions, will make this body. Local self-government units will be classified according to the level of development in four groups. To the first group of those above the republican average. In the second group from 80% to 100% of the republican average. In the third group, between 60% and 80% of the republican average, which will have the status of underdeveloped local self-government. In the fourth group below 60% of the republican average -- highly underdeveloped local self-government from Kosovo and Metohija. All those below 50% have the status of devastated areas. It is also important to stress that the amendments contained in this law are fully in line with all decisions to reduce the state administration. This means that no new government institutions will be established, i.e. a regional agency will be abolished, and for this purpose existing companies owned by local self-government will be accredited. I believe that the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Regional Law will achieve the objective set by the Ministry of Economy, which is to bring our objectives and opportunities into line with European Union standards, as well as the reduction of financial costs when implementing the Regional Development Act, in order to withdraw as much resources as possible from pre-accession European Union funds. I just want to say a few more words about amendments to the Law on the right of citizens to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make from the privatisation process. Like all citizens, we from the political party G17 plus are not satisfied with the implementation and implementation of this law so far. Many of the reasons that have contributed to reducing efficiency are then seemingly well-designed law. I will remind only two of the most significant, which is the sale of NIS in a way that did not provide for this law, therefore, by direct sale, and by the global economic crisis, which has affected the reduction of the number of interested customers for the purchase of companies covered by this law and the decline in the value of stock and capital on the stock market. In order to correct the lack of existing laws and objectively inability to monitor the time dynamics he meant, the Ministry of Economy has proposed the changes that are ahead of us today. In addition to ensuring legal standards in the emerging situation, these changes aim at more equal participation of citizens in the division of corporate actions, both those who have taken into account the current law and those new ones that will be covered by the amendments and additions to this law. Namely, via Telecom, EPS, JAT, Galenike, Nicole Tesla Airport, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development suggests that assets of 15% of privatisation entities that are privatised by the public tender method and 15% of public utility capital that are privatised in accordance with existing regulations are included in the stock fund. In addition to all of this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to increase the Fund's assets by bringing in actions and other public enterprises and companies in public property, and then the emissions of new actions will be issued. The right to these actions would be given to all citizens who are enrolled in existing records. In the end, I would like to say that the intention of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is to enable these changes to create original intentions, which is that each holder of the right to free action is paid as much as possible for free action as possible in today's conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38353	Nine minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP Natasa Micic, followed by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38354	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the very fact that today we are discussing the amendments and additions of three different laws, one of which we adopted in the middle of last year -- the Regional Development Act, and the other two on free actions and the Privatisation Agency a little over two years ago, says enough that the proposals themselves are not prepared without practical application. Mr. Minister, since you've been participating for ten years in the transition of this country, I think it would be important to appreciate both the time and the material resources, the money of this country, in order to be more efficient, not to experiment more frequently. I'm telling you this because I'm convinced, I'd like to make a mistake, but I'm sure we'll have changes and additions to these laws soon. Then last year, when we adopted the Regional Development Act, and by emergency procedure, you claimed it was the most important law your Ministry proposed, and we advised you to withdraw it for a number of reasons. First because the idea is unthinkable, a good European idea of regional development and decentralisation. Secondly, because you have offered in this bill only fictitious, not practical solutions, which you are doing today. Furthermore, the fact that Vojvodina and Belgrade are in no way winning or losing, because they have the right subjectivity, but the chance for central Serbia has been missed, and we have also warned you. You have subsequently made these changes even worse, in fact, the position of the region in close Serbia. We also pointed out the more important thing, I say it's been nine months, you didn't do it, to return property to local self-government and to carry out fiscal decentralisation. Not only are subsidies ways to help develop, but it is also fiscal decentralisation and tax relief. I'm not going to avoid saying, or I can't, that in July, you claimed it wasn't a party project, but a state project, and already in September, which is a marketing good, of course, summer is not convenient for this marketing, you announced the establishment of a party in co-operation with other regional parties. Here, today we are discussing the amendments and additions to this Regional Development Act, and in a week or two you will adopt it, and we know that you announced the Union of Regional Parties' founding assembly on 16 May, which is enough to say that, in fact, it is more about ideological and party propaganda and dizziness, both citizens and regions and the whole country, and the EU, and much less about economic and social equality, and I am not just talking about some institutional character. So nine months after the adoption of this Regional Development Act, the effects were applied to zero, and in those nine months, only confusion, chaos, false hope came true. In fact, cities competed in regions that would be the centre of the region, not only in western Serbia between, say, Užica and Sapca, but also in the eastern between Zaječar, Požarec, Bora. And not only that, therefore, one naked bickering was, but you have, in fact, caused national tensions on an ethnic basis and on the south down with Albanians, especially in Sandzak with Bosniaks. We know that because of that, in fact, these amendments and additions to the law are done. I think it would have been a much better solution for Sandzak and regional development at all if you hadn't proposed this regional accumulation now than if you had joined Western Serbia, because it has more similarities with Western Serbia than with Shumadia. Among other things, both structurally and naturally and geographically, Sandzak and Western Serbia are more engaged in livestock and tourism, while Šumadija, for example, is more engaged in warfare. Furthermore, inter-border co-operation is, somehow, more natural that Sandzak has remained in western Serbia than you have made it difficult for the region to realise projects and Western Serbia, and Shumadi and Sandzak themselves, because it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity to provide the end-user with the activity, in fact, of this reduction in the number of regions, to cancel it. Western Serbia and the Woodland have never been one region in history. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Užice was Drinska Banovina – Kragujevac, Danube, later, during Turks, Užička nahija, then Rujanska nahija, during the Partisan Užička rezij, during Tito Zlatiborski sred. This is not compatible, different needs are, for example, the King has a need for water supply, and Western Serbia has a problem with floods. You know that last year and Požega and Užice and Sjenica, we had completely diametrically opposite needs. Secondly, it will be difficult to collect data because these needs are different. We're going to get an average value, so it's also going to make it harder to realize the project. I would also like to mention that, in addition to the reduction in the number of regions, you have done nothing to mitigate this perfidious centralism, since you are not those three bodies, only the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the National Council, so the National Agency, you have not changed anything except to increase the number of National Councils to 26 with regional representatives, but also another level of state and central there is, and this is for the implementation of the programme through the Fund's credits for development. We don't have any results from this Development Fund, so I'm really worried about how it's going to be realized through the fund and in the future. A few days ago, a daily newspaper, called "every third fraud", announced that out of 6,600 loans from the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund, 2,000 entrepreneurs did not use credit on purpose, so they did not buy equipment, which represents 30% of these credited small and medium-sized enterprises, and even half of them – 15% closed down companies, and there is no responsibility, nor money returned, so I fear that it will be in the future with the realization of these programmes. Furthermore, let me add that this really does remind me, I've already pointed out, this regional development project reminds me of the NIP, which also didn't have established priorities, criteria, conditions, so we've really listened to each other, here today, but also, in general, various examples of missed investments, ski resorts, balloon halls, via the Cultural Centre in Žitoraj, which ended up as a strip bar, so I'm out of money from the NIP, so let's move on to the IPA funds. I am also sorry, I am ending this, which is not, most importantly, a method of partnership and co-operation sufficiently provided through this legislative proposal between the public, private sector, economy and the civil sector. It's neglected. I underline that in this way, these regions, now that they're connected, are going to meet their needs. And that's where I underline the resemblance to the NIP. For example, when we talk so much about Užica today, the biggest problem of Užica is air pollution, and also from the NIP, and from the budget, by various ministries, and even the Ministry of Culture, the most invested in the Wet Gore project, and we and our children in Užica can wear gas masks because of this air pollution. Thank you, since I have to leave time to my friend Kenan, you have also brought party comrades into conflict to discuss the problems of Sandzak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38355	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38356	Ma'am, let me just answer this question that you asked first, because I think it's important that everyone hears that answer. The first thing that came to mind when the Sandzak question came to mind was that which you have now proposed, that Sandzak settles into the Western region. But what's the problem? The problem is the one we talked about this morning, the problem is the administrative district. European statistics do not allow any statistical unit to be tailored in such a way as to deviate from the existing arrangement in the country relating to administrative units. That's the administrative district with us. In other words, if we wanted to put Sandzak in the Western region, then the entire current Raski district would have to be the Western region. It wasn't even a bad idea, we were also thinking about it internally. The problem, however, is that then the central region falls below 800,000 people and, according to European statistics, cannot be declared a region. In other words, try in any way to make, if you have the parameters set, at least 800,000 people to live in one region, that's the first condition that Europe gives, it's not about our government, the second condition is that you don't cross the current borders of administrative districts, that's what Europe is asking us to do, and to make the Raski District go west, then your central fall with the number of inhabitants. Even if you add from one of these other two, then they fall. You can't possibly include each of them having a minimum population of 800,000. Ubiquitous people should not take this as anything administrative, and I wanted to give you an answer because it seems to everyone at first sight that it is an easy solution, but it is not feasible if we want to get the EU's consent to do so. In the end, I repeat, I think the administrative districts should be abolished for several reasons. It's not a decision, nor will it be, my ministry. I think they're useless, they're illogical and they're just making a fight between people. It's not a good thing they share people who live in neighboring territories, no matter what they think. They are the source of the problems faced by this law neither guilty nor debtor. Your leader noticed, I came to try to defend it, but that's the basic problem. I think that in the next phases we should go towards what I said, more powers to local self-government and the Užicians will have the opportunity to see how much this government will help Uzica specifically and will therefore appreciate everything. This is paper, the law. The point is to enforce the law of practice. You listed some of the problems that Uzice has with air pollution and others. We decided to take this highway to western Serbia. It will come one day and reach Užica, certainly, of course, it will take time to build it, because it is not a simple terrain, it is not easy to get there, but it will go this year's highway. There are other development priorities. We try to help in all parts of Serbia proportionally, especially in those poorer. The luck of Užica does not belong to this poorer, but it certainly plays an important role and the Užicians will have the opportunity to see the government's support in action. On this basis, it will decide how it will be committed to people representing parties in the government. We think that's fair. I want everyone to know that neither this is directed against anyone who, especially not against the Uzicians, but there was no way to make it, except to create a larger region, where we essentially avoided these problems, made one that was kind of a little smaller than this big one that could be made. I hope there'll be an understanding for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38357	Mrs. Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38358	Mr. Minister, really very briefly, I believe, as far as I'm aware, that these are just recommendations for the number of inhabitants, absolutely not the key, and it is a much bigger mistake if you violate a natural and social continent, but that you will not meet by the number of inhabitants of the EU recommendation. Secondly, we didn't have to use those Nuts two from 800,000 to three million, but we could have made between 150 thousand and 800,000 regions. I don't think that's a good argument. I'm not looking forward to it, and I'm sorry, but I'm saying that we're going to have a problem because of the different needs and needs, and it's going to be difficult to realize the project, and we're going to get into a situation where in the region itself, this Western-central one, and it's possible for that Eastern-South one, which you've combined, to keep coming into conflict and conflict, that the law will be inapplicable again. That's my opinion, but I wish I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38359	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38360	Just another brief technical explanation. It is not possible to be a region of between 150,000 and 800,000 people, as it also does not accept European statistics. The area is between 150,000 and 800,000 inhabitants. All regions according to European standards must have at least 800,000 inhabitants or more, and areas as a lower statistical level range from 150 000 to 800 000. Uzice will essentially be the center of one area, but the region is something that is wider.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38361	Mr. Jugovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38362	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs, Parliament Speakers, I am looking at this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Regional Development and can be seen in a two-way way, from an aspect in which much does not mean, because these amendments and additions to the Law will not be fully regionalised, but in that sense, it does mean that it breaks the prejudice that only the centralist state, with its power and overall power in Belgrade, can be a state that will guarantee a bright future and prosperity. The law on equal regional development and regionalisation itself makes sense if they lead to those parts of Serbia that are underdeveloped receiving certain funds from Serbia, by not being taken away from them. I believe that decentralisation itself, i.e. regionalisation, and in the second degree of decentralisation, where money would be in the hands of local officials or the middle levels of government in the region, can lead to improved quality of life in Serbia, because those people who are in the leading positions will be best able to solve problems from their environments, best know the problems from their environments, most transparently will have the budget and punishment for potentially non-intentional spending of funds will quickly arrive and the next elections will be deleted by the local leaders. Serbia is dying south of Belgrade. Whole villages are shutting down. I read, according to statistics, that the agrarian budget of the city of Belgrade is greater than all municipalities combined when they are added to Serbia. That condition is unacceptable. The Sava Venac municipality has several dozen times more income per capita than the municipality of Trgovište, Bajina Basta, Kladova and other undeveloped municipalities in Serbia. We must be responsible, because the basis of the biological, economic and any recovery of Serbia is exactly what is south of Belgrade, which is untapped, which is the development of the only branch that brings us profit, which is agriculture. I had the opportunity to talk to people and relatively nearly SPO sent Serbian farmers to Slovenia to see how a Slovenian peasant lives. The subsidies per hectare are several times larger, ten times larger than in Serbia, but the quality of life in those environments, rural areas, is incomparably better than in Serbia. The quality of life in parts located in areas, in villages located next to Ljubljana is only slightly worse than in Ljubljana, and because of the possibility of existence, people go away and every year happens to have in Slovenia, that cities are empty, that is, more people go to the country than they do at the end of the year in Ljubljana. We need to say that decentralisation itself must disenfranchise the centralist authority located in Belgrade and that in this way we can create conditions for development budgets in municipalities outside Belgrade to allow every municipality to develop. It is very important for regionalisation to be such that it will allow all municipalities in Serbia to create, exploit their resources. For example, we now have elections in Arangelovac. Arangelovac was one of the municipalities most developed in Serbia 30 years ago. The Archangel, with his potential, could take over and take the high place of economic potential and economic development in then-Yugoslavia. However, because the decision of some people, or because of the property that was Aranedovic, was managed by Belgrade, we came to the situation that the Arandelovac was now devastated. All of these are things that are unacceptable and all of these are things that make us think that every step towards regionalisation and decentralisation of Serbia is a step in the right direction. That is why the SPO will vote in favour of this bill. First of all, I'll say, and I think it's clear to all of us, Serbia has to be whole strong to be strong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38363	The MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38364	Now I would like to talk a little bit more about the privatisation process itself, since those who have implemented it since 2001 would be happy to forget it in the way they conducted it, and also by its effects. The resolute Minister for Business and Privatisation, for Regional Development, which is also the competent minister and for bankruptcy, regionalisation, for the stock fund, for economic diplomacy, for tourism, for employment, for the Institute of Measures and Valuable Metals, etc., not to waste any more time, has a problem with me as an MP that my discussions are not superficial and motivated by any kind of personal relationship to anyone. You have a problem, Mr Dinkic, with me knowing that the privatisation process is drawn by an international contract published in the Official Journal, then SRJ, in October 2001, number 11, which is called – Project of Trust, privatisation of the financial and private sector, which has been ratified in the Federal Assembly so that your mentors then have the guarantee that you will stick to what is agreed. This meant that the financial sector was designed to privatise itself. Maybe the citizens forgot, maybe you'd like to forget, too, the way she wrote one sentence - the method of cutting from case to case. It's the principle of privatisation of the financial sector. Practically, it means that you were brave enough, which you boast, and persistently to leave eight and a half thousand people on the street for one new year, close four banks and in 2010 I ask you – the agency transformed twice, the one that takes care of these banks, changed the names, but we have no record of what is with the money from those in the bankruptcy of unfinished or liquidated banks? There's a rumor that the Belgrade Bank's bankruptcy is over, we don't know that. Where's the money from these banks? Who sold art paintings without the government knowing it? Who was betraying business space and where's the money from? For one part we know – to the National Savings, it is false to call it national, to have the impression that it is a state-owned thing, you gave most of the space to use, the most professional workforce, and what must never be forgotten, the state-of-the-art software system. To remind ourselves, in 2001, when he waited a month and a half for the publication of the Official Journal – international contracts of the SRJ, and until then she waited for all the privatisations, you did not make privatisation throughout 2001. This is how the privatisation of the financial sector was done. What was further done, it is no longer history, it is our ugly reality, with devastating consequences, when we have to worry about whether we will remain banks with this level of credit or not, when we have called the Commercial Bank as a domestic, where we have an international investor, which we say has the highest level of domestic savings, and yet nowhere to save for investment in cheaper loans, and where Mr Dinkic, you, former director of the agency Vesna Ginić, as chairman of the board of directors and all the others, have called the Assembly, MPs and Government on the day of the debate on amendments, on how to take over these and such companies, debated a day later than in fact was done at the Assembly of Commercial Bank shareholders. This home here serves only to verify the decisions already made. In that case, he even served as a late overa or as he would say in some official jargons, when the already done action was confirmed. It's called a fake. You made the Parliament and the ruling majority participate in such a process. I really don't want to elaborate with the banking sector. The privatisation of the real sector was drawn and drawn up in the same international contract with six million dollars, out of which four million and 730 thousand donations were to be paid back to consultants, 890,000 dollars to individuals, and to auditors' firms three million and 840,000 dollars. Dear citizens, to remind ourselves once again, they say – whoever forgets to remember not to make the mistake again. Of the six billion promised donations, aid or whatever, six million dollars arrived, out of which $4,730,000 was returned. It's data from the Official List. To you as a government that has received as a warrant that authorities, organisations to implement privatisation, the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, the Privatisation Agency, have been literally drawn, not only as something to function, but even the way it will work. Do you remember the section – plan to choose an agent for sale? It was drawn which companies, according to which procedure, and what's most frightening, and what you only remember from that warrant is who will and how to charge the commissions for success in privatisation. It was written literally – the donations should not award a reward for success in privatisation, what success, we all know, but the funds of the companies sold are the reward for success in privatisation must be paid. The system was set up in the Official Journal of the SRJ - international contracts from 2001, I think it's number 11. It's what you did and spent years back and you didn't care how many people worked there, how many people were going to be out of work, if they could find a job somewhere on the side. Will these agencies of small and medium-sized enterprises really be able to create parallel and spare jobs somewhere? No, I don't. You opened the market here because you weren't interested in the effect of privatisation in real life. Your privatisation effect is measured by the money that was given to the consulting houses, for the start of the abroad, drawn in this agreement. The agreement was ratified in such a home, although it was renovated at the time, so it was indeed adopted in this home and that it was a guarantee that their interests would be protected. Then when they left you to do your own privatisation, you only stuck to this one here, so today is the most profitable, again, profession of the consulting house, the auditor's house and what could be called financial markets in one word. That's what many of your colleagues do, directly in conflict of interest even, and you don't do it directly. You're just saying that you're a minister, a minister I don't think is ready to leave the government ever. I wouldn't tell a story from history and Seneca's book "Friend's Letter" or a dialogue about how one did it so she'd never leave her post, but you left that system to yourself and your friends at the agency and the consulting houses. You left them to each other, where you didn't even control the origin of the money, even though you double-changed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, competed with each other about whether or not they were going to buy agricultural land along with the cooperative, pretending not to see that this is a condition for the work of the agricultural combination. You pretended not to see companies that are being bought, machines cut into old iron, until a recent case down in Leskovac, where plastics were bought, and only cut tracks and what's called metal. In most cases, you were not interested in success in privatisation at all, but only who and how much reward will be given when privatisation takes place, which the Bubalo has made in his regulation and what it is his sin to remember for the entire century, and who will prepare, who will publish the ad, who will make those expenses before entering the budget, I say from the change you have left, to stay with you and your friends. I won't mention how Mr. Djelic had a dream of giving these jobs to Citadel in a long series of years, then he remembered and founded the "Altis" group myself, illegally too, for six months doing business without opening a jury account. That same Citadel was doing a project for you for Kragujevac, for the flag. Did it really work or did it just charge? We haven't forgotten, and we won't forget. What were you doing? Just interested in commissions, you've been around for about a year, doing privatisation, you've seen that it's not going so great and fast, so you've decided that by changing the Business Society Act, you're selling the dinar value of their capital from 1997 to 1998, for the bagatel. Today you dare to mention "Synthelon", a company privatized by the law that was then written by Misa Beko, I have won, as a member of the government, to realize it also after me, Mr Dinkic, there is not one single piece of paper that can compromise, first of all, the party I belonged to, the economic profession, my personality and my profession, and the involvement in these affairs, any single business. This "Synthelon" you're boasting about is privatized by that old law and I, the one I'm talking to, first signed trading on the stock market of this "Synthelon". Later I found out that the gentlemen didn't do it perfectly, because they were buying it out in the second round of small stockholders without being allowed to do it out of the berserk. That's still what we're talking about. How will the small shareholders manage to deal with that? We'll see. I'm not happy about it, although it wasn't the ministry's jurisdiction back then, but that's all that could be tied up as problematic for the time of the privatisation. You've had a little bit of this, but you've even gone through bankruptcy and everything under the firm transparently doing privatisation in such a way that we have a series of economic, social and can really say the political consequences that all together can be called negative. What did we get by privatizing at all costs? We cannot have several positive effects of privatisation and good and successful privatisations as an excuse for overcoming negative effects. What did we get? Discovered or hidden corruption at the top? How many government officials defiled their cheeks, not because I'm afraid, but I don't want the time to mention how many of them have soiled their cheeks in these actions. How many of them traded political friendships by renting it, starting with Colette and Sugar? How are the mechanisms developed corrupt in the privatisation process, the money laundering mechanisms, where everyone who commented on it was called an opponent of privatisation and progress? Instead of improving the privatisation mechanisms, you have led to each of the following projects changing the Privatisation Act and the accompanying bodies in such a way that you have removed revenue behind the curtains, I am talking about the Privatisation Agency, removing procedures and decisions on which you will, in most cases, set up privatisations through the coat of arms of the people and their jobs to make your political friends. Let's just mention Karic. I've been on the board of directors of PTT, I'm a Telecom worker. I may have been rewarded for voting against compensation, you say – rewarded, Karic's compensation for participation in what was called "Mobtel" in time. I'm proud of it because my party president didn't give me orders, he knew I knew I was thinking with my own head and that I would do this job honestly. What were you and your friends doing? Putting in drawers, pulling out drawers, blackmailing, messing around, when you couldn't, then you realized that for one dinar you were taking over property, forming enterprises, you're still running the bankruptcy of one part of that company, selling, bringing Mr. Schlaff, who is famous in world circles, I'm not talking about corrupt financial affairs of Israel, Palestinians, America, etc. Whenever it suits you, you angered strangers who were supposed to come or be nice to them, but there was always a man at the center of it all who wanted to stay in power at all costs. It's you. You're the only best finance minister with a certificate, but we know how that certificate was paid. We know very well how to get awards from chambers of commerce, how someone gets the front page, a racket of public words, a racket of rewards. You've led to perfection among yourselves, and if you think I'm afraid to talk about it, you don't realize that my professional honor, my pure face and my three adult children commit me, like all the other children, to this way, because they don't trust this authority, or in all the authorities before you, because they can't find a job without having a party ticket, protection from sin, or keeping them from court or any other procedure. The reason why you last a long time and you can pass here a law where you're wondering and now, as the only minister who will run the Action Fund, which absolutely the same jurisdiction of the Action Fund has, in no other way, which will be members of the Council and that no one will be responsible for that, is in the hill of files you picked up at the Privatisation Agency. If you think it's an unknown mechanism of functioning, you're wrong. That's the mechanism of functioning some people have been trying to develop before you. In my day, when I was a minister, they came for these and such controversial cases, as -- you know, come on, we'll process it. We know perfectly, and we should talk about it openly how, how long Mr. Karic has lasted, since he had to leave, who went looking for money in Cyprus, who didn't find them, who brought the tobacco and the rest of the mafia here, who planted the devils, and today he's afraid for his head, and I'm not afraid for my head because I'm telling the truth and because I've never had an arrangement with any of the people I've worked with. Even the Lafarc Treaty was the only original left with me and I gave the gentlemen of the cement shop a chance to try to pay the price that was negotiated at the time of the sanctions. They didn't make it. You sold them lower than the price we had at the time of the sanctions. You know very well that, and you know very well that at that time Lafarz did not only enter Lafarz, but one of the companies that is working and building in Belgrade today and Serbia as a whole. There are often those who are afraid to say, and they are mostly afraid not because they think life is worth living for a long time, but because you hold the balance of fear, because the secret of sin among you is equally divided, among those who were advisors in 1998, when I entered the government, when they advised Mr. Mirko Marjanović and similar, among other things, the Institute in which close people and your Mrs. Mom worked, I have, for example, a nice advisory job where our governor in the resignations were now building a project to restructure the financial sector. So, from the Ces Mekona project, I carry two sides, financial sector reform, the author's team, the first side is even more interesting, and I'm going to explain it to you now, first of all, I need this second one, international associates are Dr. Zeljko Bogetić, and maybe that's something that Radovan Jelassiti is telling you, Deutsche Bank Franfurkt. In fact, it's the Frankfurt Department of Mek Kinsija, and in the Paris department of Mek Kinsija it was Mr Djelic, meaning people programmed careers to come to save this Serbia. Who's on the front page? On the first page are Mr. Pavle Petrovic, Milojko Arsic, who does not know who these people are today, I will tell them, all participants in public life and very influential, Dr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Dr. Diana Dragutinović, Dr. Bosko Zivkovic, who was your winner, as far as I know, Zvonimir Nikezić owns "Ces Mekona" etc. and so on. Is "Ces Mekon" or "Ces Macon" ruling Serbia? These people ruled in 1998, advised and gave completely different advice because they received different orders. Today they advise and work differently because of their own interest. One time and one day on someone's orders. Do you think that the Serb has 16 lives and that he has surpassed a cat and a woman who has nine lives or do you think that reruns of what are called your genius solutions, so mistakes, can survive again? You're wrong. The Action Fund, the Action Fund, regionalisation is another attempt not to separate from the authorities. I'm sure you won't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38365	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38366	Ma'am, I told you this morning that you look too much at your reflection in the mirror when you talk about others. That's not right, considering people are different. The way you are doesn't necessarily mean they're other people. I'll tell you exactly what you've been saying. I'll give you the answers to everything you asked for, so judge for yourself. You say, "My mentors." I'll tell you who my mentors are in life. I have two mentors. You mentioned mentors, mecenary and others. My only two mentors in a professional life are professors. Ljubomir Hungary, where I worked as an assistant at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and Prof. Dusan Vujovic, whom I graduated from and where I did master's work. It's the only two of my mentors. Mr. Bosko Zivkovic, the professor you mentioned, is not my match. My parents weren't rich, but they weren't poor either. They were members of the so-called middle class, and we had enough to go to school alone. I haven't had any contest in my life, and Bosko Zivkovic is a good expert, a man who is not a member of any party. The people you mention in the study, Mr. Radovan Jelasic worked at Deutsche Bank, but Deutsche Bank has nothing to do with the consulting house "Mek Kinsi". It's two completely different branches. This is a bank, and this is a consulting house. You mixed that up with Mr. Djelic. He worked at MacKinsey. It's not the same thing. It's like making a comparison between a plane and a fuse. It's not the same. One is a bank, and the other is a consulting house. This official paper that you have quoted so many times since 2001, I don't know what your impression is, it may be private, but it had absolutely no impact on the creation of a bank privatisation policy, because I personally participated, along with Mr. Jelasic and our associates from the NBS, in creating the concept of bank privatisation. That's the concept I'm proud of, and I'm ready to talk about it openly. What kind of banking sector did we find in 2001? The banking sector that had losses worth more than four billion euros, the banking sector where citizens had so much confidence that only 20 million euros were kept on account, the banking sector that owed citizens from 91.7 billion US dollars at the time of the old foreign exchange savings, the banking sector that you usually call tycoons today, not created in this first decade, but in the last decade, during the time some other people ruled this country. I have to say, I'm proud of the whole NBS team back then for taking 35 licenses away from a variety of tycoons from the old banking sector. Answer all – is there any tycoon who owns a bank in Serbia today? There aren't any. I responded, along with Mr Jelasic and our colleagues from the NB, to the privatisation process of the banking sector. Were they in 2001? Were there people who were using depositor money, misusing it? Of course it was. That's why 35 licenses were withdrawn. That's why all these violent attacks followed. The Commercial Bank, mentioned earlier, is today our strongest bank, but in 2001 it was a bank in which some who had previously been in power deposited drugs, and today it is deposited with the savings stakes of citizens. That's a big difference. The fact is that today's currency savings amount to six billion and 150m euros, and in 2001 we found 20m euros in savings. You can figure out how many times this is. See for yourself whether we've managed to restore complete trust in the banks or not. The foreign exchange reserves found could not finance two days of our country's imports, and today we have 10.5m euros in foreign exchange reserves and that is four times more than all the dinars in circulation. Today, the central bank is a system. Today our banks are much better than most banks in Southeast Europe. When the global financial crisis began, the banking sector's strength, which has been created since 2001, thanks to well-provided bank privatisation, has preserved many savings roles for citizens, for example. from savings in Iceland, from some savings in America even, from savings in Great Britain, say one part of Scotland Yard kept savings in banks in Iceland, so they failed. Unlike savings in Belgium, the Fortis Bank, unlike savings in the Baltic countries, Serbian savings saved all their roles because such a system guaranteeing the stability of savings was created. This system has been built since 2001 until today. Such a system was created against which many tycoons you mention were based, which was based on the need to manage both sound banking and sound monetary policy, that the mandatory reserve must be at an appropriate level to ensure the safety of the roles. They criticised the management of the NB at the time – why it is holding so many reserves, why the degree of capital adequacy is three times higher in Serbia than in Europe, but now that the crisis has come, it has proved that everyone in the EU has somehow acknowledged that it was a good move by the central bank and that we have thus managed to protect our citizens. It is true that in the first days of the crisis, citizens withdrew a billion euros. In the first month and a half of a billion euros, people pulled out of banks scared of what they saw in America, because it bankrupted one of the largest American banks, Lyman Brothers, scared to see the bankruptcy of all banks in Iceland and scared of what was happening in the Baltic countries and others. Of course, since the central bank was liquid, since the government acted in due time and thanks to parliament raised the level of guaranteed deposits and thus removed these psychological negative factors, what happened? Everything people pulled for a month and a half over the next year and a half has returned to the banks and another 350m euros. Before the bank crisis in Serbia was deposited 5 billion and 700m euros in savings, and now 6 billion and 150. So 450m euros exactly more than before the crisis. I think Serbia should be proud of its banks. I think what was really done in privatizing banks is an example of how privatisation should be done. As for the economy sector, I am the minister responsible for the Privatisation Agency since 15 May 2007. I must admit that the privatisation process in the real sector is far more difficult than in the banking sector and that the first privatisation minister was not easy to make adequate solutions, and it is easy now, after 10 years, to criticise, but it should be asked in what position was the Serbian economy in 2001, when the Privatisation Act was passed and what if that law had not been passed? That's the right answer. Today, it's easy to say that 20% of privatisation failed, but 80% did. What if 80% of the privatisations didn't work? It would have gone down 80% of the economy because in the social sector it was all based on the state, and during the time you were Minister, you were taking money from taxpayers and paying losses to those companies that had problems. Today, only 15 enterprises in Serbia are on subsidies. In 2000, it was hundreds of companies. Hundreds of companies that swallowed money from Serbian citizens over taxes. And I would be a lucky man, as I suppose you would, that 100% privatisation in Serbia worked, but that didn't work anywhere in the world, and no privatisation was the only method for transitioning the economy, but above all, direct greenfield investment methods that bring new employment. But privatisation was necessary, it was not absolutely successful. That's where we can and we have to agree. There are many examples, 20% are not small, where there was no success. But, of course, it has to be broken up and where the breakups have to be sought out new, better customers. But the bottom line is, at least that 80%, it's not small, it worked and it's better than 80% failed. One more thing. You mention Schlaff, Karic. I ask who created Karic? Was it created by this government or by some previous government? What previous governments? When we talk about the privatisation of Mobtel, it is the most successful privatisation of any company in Serbia that has ever been implemented. Since the company, which was no use to the state because it all went to the tycoon that was created in your day, while you were a minister and while you were in the government with him, I don't know if you were factual, we came to a public auction, with international competition, where even some of your colleagues from your current party were saying that they knew they were going to win the Schlaff and the Austrians, the Norwegians beat it. It was simply wrong for some of them why the Norwegians won when some people knew who would win in advance in allegedly staged tenders. Maybe if you're looking at your character in the mirror you're designing these fittings, but I have to say that all the processes that were under the authority were 100% and fair and transparent, and the only goal when it was a privatisation process was to find the best strategic partner and make as much revenue for the state budget as possible. Finally, over a billion and a half euros in income for the Mobtel bid was made for only one company. As a result, Austrians who lost were forced to pay an additional 360m euros to get a third license and then invest another few hundredm euros to build a network to start from scratch. At that point, the state had two billion surpluses in the budget. If anyone thinks it's bad, I disagree. I think it was a good process. You have asked one important question - the question of corruption, the question of money laundering, the important question to which the answer is very simple. There are no exceptions. Whoever breaks the law takes the money, either in the privatisation process, or in any other process, it has to be processed, to go to jail. Whoever he is, he's the president of the state, the government, the minister, the MP, whoever this country is. I'm absolutely up for it and the party I belong to. There's no cover-up behind parties. There's no cover behind immunity. It doesn't suit you. You talk about it, and in fact, all those people who mention themselves, you secretly see them, they finance you, and you make a complete replacement for thesis. It was good until your attacks were answered by no one while they were silent. That's enough silence. Why should we keep quiet to you? Although I must admit that I am personally wrong that Serbia does not have a better opposition because it would be good for some better opposition to win Serbia and to make a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38367	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll be in direct transmission by 7:55 p.m., and then, as you know, there's a sports Wednesday going on and it's going to be delayed. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38368	In the replica, I'll try to answer you as soon as possible. Your statement that you've allowed dirty capital to enter the real sphere, but in financial terms, not how much you feel about the owner of our lives, our decisions, our words, it's your finding that you're assessing the quality of the opposition. I won't comment on that. Mr Dinkic, let someone explain to you that the total foreign exchange reserves are not our foreign exchange reserves by structure, neither state or long-term are stable, nor can you be proud of them, because it is mostly the money of banks from abroad, members of the Vienna Club, who at one point can decide to withdraw them. At the time the reserves amounted to 11.4 billion euros, the state reserves were 1.7 billion euros. It's from the National Bank. Do not convince citizens that the condition is pink or that it is your success when it is not. What's most interesting is, you say privatisation was supposed to be done, there are failures. This privatisation had to lead to a surplus social product that was not the result of machinations and manipulation, to greater employment, or at least not to have such a drastic decline, not to have privatisation to privatise it. Where are the subsidies going? How do you lend loans? How do they keep pretending? In the role of the state. How you do re-privatisation and re-eatisation says the DRI report. That you trust some people as privates who know how to work with the state to talk about the Silver Lake project. This private public partnership is modern and should be applied there. Your different arches may be acceptable to someone, they just don't. I have a key question for you. If you're so honest, if no tender is set, if privatisation is all right, why is only the privatisation agency's account not in the consolidated account of the Treasury that's on the budget and the finance ministry. Why do only these payments go through the NBS and why doesn't the rest of the government know? You don't know anything about that? There's the key to your mirror reflection. You know, they say every book is a story about a book, every man understands by looking at himself in the mirror. About you, Mr. Dinkic, they're talking about the results of the laws and moves you've implemented, including the one about the reform of the banking system. One sentence allowed you to be supposedly brilliant, cutting from case to case, and how genius you were is an example of Robing Houses, where you have the money left after your bankruptcy. It's not your mind, it's the wrong assessment and past the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38369	Time. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38370	Let me answer your question. The privatisation agency's money is not in the consolidated account of the Treasury, as you said, because it's not the account of any other public agency. Under the Budgetary System Act, direct and indirect budget users exist. The accounts of direct budget users are in the consolidated account of the Treasury, and the accounts of the indirect ones, which are all agencies, so also the Spatial Planning Agency, the Privatisation Agency, the ionising radiation agency, and all others. (Jorganka Tabakovic raids, from the site: And where is education and health care?) ) Education, health care is in central bank accounts. However, the finance ministry also has insight, as it has insight into direct users' accounts. Therefore, users are divided into direct and indirect ones. Also, let me tell you that there is no Vienna Bank Club, I don't know where you heard it. It doesn't exist. There was a Vienna initiative last year to make an agreement that banks place at least the same level of credit in Serbia as they placed in 2008, which is a Vienna initiative that was one-time and lasts two years. The Bank of Vienna Club doesn't exist. Finally, the money you get, generally acquired, any firm, any bank always goes to the expense of special, for the reconciliation of trustees when that bankruptcy ends. That's also the case with the money that comes from the sale of bank assets, which are in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38371	Thank you. I don't think there's really a reason right now, or I can't tell you on that basis. (Jorgovanka Tabakovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Injuring the Rules of Procedure to abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38372	I don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it simply won't be useful to say that the Vienna Initiative Trustee Club, the Vienna Club, as they call it, banks, 13 banks of which are nine in this country, countries in the environment and international financial institutions make up that so-called. The Vienna Club, which our bank made a deal with last year. You call it the Vienna Initiative, thinking we don't know anything about it, but it's a deal to keep the existing level of funding. At what cost? At the cost of giving them different conditions of the mandatory reserve, which is like telling a citizen – you who enter the store buy meat with an 8% tax rate, and you, Mr. Kiric, when you enter for you is a tax rate of 4%. How normal it is and what reputation you've violated this country and the state will be assessed by those who know a little more about it. And to justify that the state has no control over the money of the agencies it has set up and making huge money on its monopolies -- that is proof not of your ignorance, but of your bad intentions for the citizens of Serbia, who have no control over over over 1.3 billion money in this country. Talking about indirect and direct users absolutely confirms that your knowledge from the practical area is quite thin. I'm sorry, I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38373	National MP Milan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38374	Dear Presidents of the Assembly and members of the Presidency, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have very important amendments to the law. The SPS-JS parliamentary group, the introduction or our authorised representative, has already said he will declare and support himself in the voting day of these projects. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act, without the intention of entering deep history, the problem of the inequality of regional development does not stem from a single, two decades ago. It is much deeper and extends further from Yugoslavia, when the overall development of Serbia and some regions in Serbia was far below the level of development of other regions. Also, I'm one of those who's been working for 40 years in an extremely underdeveloped area in southern Serbia, and I feel very good about what it means when you have 1:15 in relation to the development of certain regions. I see the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do something to reduce this deepening of gaps in development between certain regions after all the events in Serbia – sanctions, war destruction, and now economic crisis. In this effort, the 2009 draft law was made, in fact, passed a law. It is good that the government of the Republic of Serbia has convinced itself that the effects of such a solution have not yielded results. It is also good to acknowledge that it is now going towards some new legislative solution on regional development, which will enable all the opportunities and potentials that are being provided to us, in order to reduce regional differences in development, to take advantage. I think it went well with these statistical divisions of the region. There, the government left quite simply from two moments – the number of inhabitants and the area of a particular region. However, I think it had to go a little deeper in order to create a clearer picture of the degree of underdevelopment of certain areas through several economic indicators that could be the basis for adopting criteria for balancing certain regions. I think this law is a good basis for bringing EU legislation closer and for creating opportunities for easier access to EU funds to bring regional development closer to one another. It is good that the law provides for the rationalisation of development agencies. It is also good that these agencies are created in regions where and where these activities are taking place in equating regional underdevelopment and it is good to form advice from people from the region, all of Serbia's regions, so that they can make the best possible way, knowing the problem of certain regions, to make the right decisions. The division of five regions as statistical units I think is good and it is good to go towards these basic criteria – that each region that is above the republican average has some treatment of the developed region, and what is below the republican average is that it has the treatment of an undeveloped area and that we have a third category of so-called. the devastated local self-government, whose number is not so small in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Special attention is to address exactly the regions that exist. I have to say that in some local self-governments and unfortunately in the districts, which are in order of the devastated areas, if we take just a few indicators, we come to the real and I would say the sad reality of the situation in some regions in Serbia. The unemployment rate of the working-age population is 42.9% in the Pcinj County, in Presevo is 66.7%, in Vladic's Han 55.7%, in Shop 52.4%, in Bosilegrad 49.6%, in Bujanovac 41.8%, significantly above the republican unemployment rate of around 27.8%. The average net profit at such a low employment rate in Vladica Han is, for example, 14.931, in Bosilegrad 21,432, not to mention further. It's simply more than a two-digit number compared to developed local self-government in Serbia alone. Of course, the perspectives of development in such undeveloped areas, let's say when it comes to Pcinian County, where key infrastructure projects are missing, such as corridors, roads, power lines, gasification, etc. are small, there is almost no inflow of foreign investment. I think a legal project like this can be expected to start for a long time, but it begins with the development and this kind of devastated area. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, I remind you that the basic law was passed in 2007. He's quite well regulated some things, such as the right to free action etc. However, there have been significant changes in socio-economic relations over time. In particular, due to the current economic crisis, there is a decline in value and sales of businesses and public enterprises. Many deadlines set for the completion of privatisation have already passed and simply lack the funds to ensure that citizens who did not have the right to free security actions are granted. The institution of the establishment of the stock fund creates, above all, assumptions for the fair and equal execution of obligations towards all citizens, rather than putting employees and former employees in a more privileged position than others. I think that's important. There is an extremely strong link between the change and the addition of the Law on the Privatisation Agency and this bill in that part of the creation of the stock fund. I'm sorry the time is running out, but our parliamentary group will support these legal projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38375	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38376	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, is today the fact that Serbia is a deeply regionally unequal country in terms of development and the fact is that these huge regional differences have arisen, it seems to me, for the most part, for the last ten years. As is the fact that the country's economic policy for the past ten years is exactly what you are. That's why this bill of law and your argument of the Regional Development Act can be called demagogue and hypocritical. Why do I say demagogue? In the light of the proposal for a law on regional development, you say that the objective of amending this law that we passed last year nine months ago is to get statistical and more uniform regions, as well as to abolish state regional agencies, which reduces administration and costs in light of the economic crisis, thus enabling better and vertical-horizontal coordination, planning and realisation of development activities. Didn't we, just nine months ago, tell the DSS that the bill at the time was absolutely bad and that it would bring only new bureaucracy, and that nothing concrete, no concrete assistance would bring undeveloped areas of Serbia, and that it would not be practically possible to implement this law and that it meant nothing in terms of reducing regional differences? Now you're trying to convince us that you're going to cut red tape because of the economic crisis, as if last July wasn't an economic crisis when you introduced the same bureaucracy through the law at the time? Also, another demagogue written here in the context of this law says that in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 113 states that the EU and the Republic of Serbia will seek to strengthen regional and local development co-operation with a view to contributing to economic development and reducing regional inequalities. I understand that through the law we will create some statistical regions through which various municipalities in Serbia and various projects will compete with pre-accession funds, which are currently not available, because we did not get candidate status and the question is when will we get it, but I do not understand what the Republic of Serbia, or its competent Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, has made these regional differences less? Last year you offered us as a rescue solution to the Regional Development Act, which is pure philosophy, in which there is no financial instrument to overcome regional differences, and now you are also offering a philosophical document – the amendment of the Regional Development Act, where seven statistical regions are no longer spoken of, but five statistical regions. What difference does it make if it's seven, five, 13 or one, if there's no financial instrument to reduce regional differences? You also said that in the debate on this law, unnecessary tensions are created. The tensions are just being created, Mr. Minister, because the law is like this, because none of the following laws on finance, decentralization of finance, fiscal policy, which will help those who are undeveloped to be undeveloped, that municipalities that are the most underdeveloped, or the relationship of municipalities of the most underdeveloped and most developed are not 1:15 or 1:50, as you stated, but to be much smaller. The tensions are currently being created because the competent ministry you run is not one measure of economic concrete implementation in order to reduce regional differences, so that poverty does not, above all, reside in southeastern Serbia and that the salary, for example, in Kursumlia is 14,000 and in Belgrade municipalities over 50,000, and the number of employees more than half. Last year, i.e. in an election campaign, you announced pompously, aside from 1,000 euros each of Serbia's citizens, to which you mostly raised votes to form the government, you promised huge development projects for Serbia, "Fiyat" in Kragujevac, and "Mercedes" and "BMV" in Nis. When the campaign ended, we spent a lot of money to create the conditions of the Fiat to produce in Kragujevac, but of course, from Mercedes, BMW or any big company you promised would come to Nis and run the dead Elektrone Industry, there's nothing. A year and a half ago, the city of Nis organized a Nis Investment Forum, where you were then pompously announcing that you would do everything to ensure that Nis would be a city of electronics again, and that through large investment projects Nis would not be in 70 and some place by development, that it would not have almost the same number of unemployed and employees, and that it would not be a new valley of hunger, but a successful big city. After that, you did not participate in the second investment forum, and in the meantime you took one large electronics company near Belgrade to build its own factory, but not where you promised. You shouldn't have come to that second investment forum because you didn't do any of what you promised. The hypocrisy is when you say that there are huge regional differences, that people from Southeast Serbia mostly move for economic reasons, because they can't find a job there, because there is poverty and that they mostly come to Belgrade where they find work much easier or to Novi Sad. In doing so, as Minister of Economy, and before that, the finance minister, you have not tried any concrete bill to prevent these people from leaving their borders. Why would someone invest, one of the new investors invest in an undeveloped municipality if it has exactly the same conditions as it has in Belgrade, Novi Sad or another town? There are, of course, clear mechanisms for how it is done. If you give, for example, 15,000 euros per new job to an undeveloped municipality, not five, everywhere in Serbia, then someone will consider investing perhaps in Leban, Blac or Vlasotic. If VAT is not the same in the devasted areas as in Belgrade on various products or at least some concerning the production branches that are represented there, etc. etc. There must be a lot of concrete financial instruments in order to stop a huge difference in development and not get devastated areas and in terms of the number of inhabitants in the future. Such a law is absolutely ineffective and will bring no concrete benefit to undeveloped areas. You have completely reduced all investments in Belgrade and the environment. According to data, 80% of investment is happening around Belgrade. Where big investments come from. Of course, all major investors first come to the Ministry of Economy and talk to the heads of state where they will invest and therefore it is clear why investments are right in the centre of Serbia. Loans are taken to build new bridges and subways in Belgrade, which will be returned by the entire state, including the poorest. So, if you hadn't created awareness in Serbia that only philosophical bill proposals, and not concrete measures, would have affected the reduction of regional differences, we wouldn't have had a situation where state companies such as EPS, NIS and Telecom only sponsor Belgrade clubs or cultural manifestations in Belgrade, and we wouldn't have a phenomenon that, for example, money from SMS messages to the Eurovision go to build a third safe house in Belgrade, as if nowhere in Serbia there was a need for any new safe house. Such a law will not be supported by the Democratic Party of Serbia, as it does not take any concrete measures to reduce regional differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38377	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38378	I fully agree with you that the situation in Nis is critical, for several reasons. One is the fact that, regardless of the level of subsidies offered to investors to go to Nis. Sometimes there were weaknesses in the city itself to accept some investments. I'll give you an example. The German company Leoni was interested in hiring 1,300 people in the automotive industry, and they first watched the Jugorendgen Hall within the former Elektrone Industry in Nis. However, since it is not state-owned, the owners are small shareholders, they are looking for an excessive price the Germans did not want to pay, they went to Prokuplje, they bought out of the bankruptcy factory "Fiaz" and now they organize production in Prokuplje, and they will employ 1,300 people in Prokuplje. If these shareholders were small, I would say wiser and more modest "Leonies" would not be in the Cup but in Nis. We offer, otherwise it should be known, we offer 5,000 euros per newly employed worker if someone invests in Nis. If someone generally invests in southern Serbia and eastern Serbia in the automotive industry. Such an incentive for Vojvodina is 3,000 euros per newly employed worker, and in central Serbia, in Shumadi, 4,000 euros per newly employed worker. For the automotive industry, there are extra incentives, for electronic and information technologies, but even bigger if it is invested in the east, south and less developed areas of Serbia, and then investors go to local self-government and choose where they will invest. Their decision really doesn't require exaggeration. It's not just the Ministry, the State. First of all, they decide based on what they see in the field, on the bar, whether some local self-government is more willing to accept them or not, and there's a difference depending on the end. However, it is certain that the goal of our ministry is to safely help some major investments in Nis by the end of the term of office. We now have a company that has been visiting Nis, among other things, who wants to hire 2,000 people in Serbia, but has defined itself, since it has to organize production since June, and there is no location in Nis where it could start to produce immediately, but it has to build a new factory, it has been defined for Rač, so these days a contract with a South Korean company will be signed that will start production of car cables in the Zastava Elektro in Raca, but that's why another factory in Serbia will build in Nis, because they can't find thousands of workers in Raca. We recommended that they take a look at all three places, Ratche, Nis and Zajcar. Zaječar has been told that it is so far from Belgrade and that it is so hard to come that they do not want to think about it at all, and Nis had no location that can move right away, because no matter how many halls of the "Electron Industries" stand empty, so much is entangled debt-trust relations, legal relations, who owns it there, who owes it to, how to get into the possession of these halls, it is so complicated that it is easier to build a completely new factory on the ice, than to use an existing hall. But what we're really trying to do is put a piece of our operations in Nis, and I think we'll have good news for Nisli in the next few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38379	Mr. Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38380	Mr. Minister, I've heard another news now. So, in addition to Nishlia and those living in the area moving from Nis to Belgrade and Novi Sad, we will now move to Rač. That's good news so we can get a job there. It's just an amazing fact that you said, that interested investors couldn't find space in Nis in the "Electron Industry" to organize a job, because they're complicated relationships, and you've put a man in charge of the "Electron Industry" holding company that should give access to investors. How is it possible that there is no coordination and how is it possible that there is no space, 32 acres and over 150,000 square meters, no space can be found to open a new factory? As for Leonia in Prokuplje, where good luck to have 1,200 people hired. That would solve the problems and other municipalities in Toplička County. For now, as far as I know, 200 people are working, but it doesn't matter. It's a good thing there are 200 people. So what we need to follow this law is to amend a series of other laws, the VAT law, the tax on contributions, income tax, income tax. Why would the profit tax be the same in the White Palanca and Belgrade? Why would income tax be the same in a place where income per capita is 50 times lower than in the most developed municipality? How will we attract someone to invest in the most underdeveloped municipality if it is an incentive, you said, 5,000 euros in Southeast Serbia, 4,000 in Vojvodina, 3,000 in Belgrade? What are the results of that? No results. So it's not well planned. There must be five times more to interest someone into investing in the White Palanco, which is probably the most underdeveloped municipality in Serbia. It's got to cut income tax, pay tax. These are concrete measures that will attract someone who needs to open up a business to create a greater profit. Why would he spend enormous funds on transport costs, if he can do so in Belgrade, and there is no special discount from the state to invest in undeveloped areas? So you didn't well predict how you would attract those who needed to accelerate the development of undeveloped areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38381	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38382	You're wrong, for the simple reason that VAT is a unique tax and everywhere in every country in the world you have a unique rate on the entire territory of the country. Local taxes differ, and incentives are also different in that a free customs zone can be established somewhere, which is a proposal to do so in Nis, as it exists in Piroth, Zrenjanin, Suotica and Kragujevac, so that those who come into the free zone would not pay taxes and customs on goods imported for export purposes. It is envisaged that Nis also forms a free customs zone. As far as your assessment is concerned, it is not true, because "Leoni" has invested in southern Serbia and Prokuplje is south of Serbia, like Nis, are not far from each other. They've hired, I think, 350 people so far, but it's such a dynamic plan that 1,300 people will be employed in three years since they tried to work. Since it's the Germans, they usually keep their word and promise. On the other hand, there were investments in Vlasotinc, two electronic companies employ 600 people. One is the German "Brunner", the other is the Slovenian "Elrad". And that's south of Serbia, even more underdeveloped than Nis. We will have in the next month the first major investment in Leskovac, thank God, since the best European male stocking producer Falka, the German company, will be there. They are indeed one of the best men's socks producers in Europe. They're taking over the halls that have failed, the former Inkola, and thanks to the entrepreneurship of Leskovac Municipality, and we've done our best, we've made this procedure short, but it would be much easier if local self-government were to conduct the procedure. For the electronics industry, it doesn't matter who the director of the company is. It's important if the complicated relationships where the trustees are, and that's what the private creditors are looking for, not the state, it's easy with the state's claims, it can be written off, it can be converted into capital, but there are so many private claims that in the end the only solution for the Nis Electronic Industry turned out to be bankruptcy, since they have accounts in a blockade for over three years. That's the only way to wipe out all the debts and someone's gonna be able to use them sometime. Unfortunately, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38383	(Milan Lapcevic, from the place: Replica. There are no more grounds. National MP Branimir Mitrovic. (Milan Lapčević, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38384	Article 104. Mr. Minister, your general assessment that the four or five investments you've made that happened in southern Serbia, that it's falling away from the dreary picture, really doesn't stand. If that's the case, you'll best see from the statistics. Look at the number of unemployed people, look at the income per capita, look at the average salary, the number of pensioners, so you'll understand. Not to mention infrastructure and other parameters that determine the degree of development of a particular area. As for the Electronic Industry and the concrete enterprise, I think it also has some influence on who runs certain enterprises, because a well-known investor from Slovenia has asked the state through your Director Holding to buy the state part of ownership of 20%, so that he can organize production at Jugorendgen. It can almost be called a strategic partnership. To this day for nine months, this thing is clouded with various memos and man has simply raised his hands, can no longer fight bureaucracy, which does not allow him for his private and personal reasons to realise his investment. That's what you need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38385	Mr. Lapchevic, this was a classic abuse. You have called to give your opinion at a time when other MPs, who are in turn, should participate in the debate. I'm warning you, I'm not saying anything, but I'm warning you it's not right and I'm going to have to impose sanctions in the future. Mrs. Hope Kolundji, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38386	Madam President, since you have just concluded that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, I wanted to point to a constant violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you are allowing that, by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, they are using the rights to replication, which they have no right to. I just wanted to point that out and ask that we don't do it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38387	National MP Branislav Mitrovica has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38388	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about amending the Law on Regional Development. The purpose of adoption of this law, it has been said many times today, and before, is to reduce interregional differences, but also those differences within the region, those differences between local self-governments. On the other hand, this law will allow Serbia to welcome the moment when it becomes a candidate for EU accession and to be able to compete for those funds from pre-accession funds, primarily for funds related to regional development, human resources, as well as rural development. However, this law is primarily economic and economic law, but in the previous period it has been highly politicised, and it has made a large number of our citizens, and it seems to me that in some ways people who deal with politics, are confused and give some hasty, irresponsible, sometimes over-emphasised statements, which have led to a high degree of politicisation of this law. I think politicians spoke primarily to their constituents, and they entered less into the essence of this law. There are many incorrect interpretations of this law. One of the key incorrect interpretations is that this is about administrative rather than statistical regionalization. I must repeat once again that statistical regions represent statistical functional continents that have no legal subjectivity and that have no government, no assembly, no president, no center, no elections. Many times today in this congregation, in this room, the name of the city of Uzice was mentioned. I come from Užica, I represent the town of Užice in this parliament, I represent the citizens of western Serbia in this House, and my future and my family's future are tied to this city. The opposition from Užica says that Užice lost the center. Užice did not have a center of the region, because this is about statistical regions and only one day when we talk about administrative division, about political division, we will be able to talk about Uzic as the center of an administrative region. On the other hand, Uzice is the centre of the Zlatibor Management District, which consists of ten municipalities in western Serbia and is the centre of fundamentally western Serbia. The pleasures don't expect to get from someone on the paper the status of the center and nobody's gonna give it to anyone. The pleasures will be fought in such a way as to strengthen all those regional institutions. I already said, Uzice is the centre of western Serbia because it is a business centre, because it has a copper mill, because it has an aluminium cylinder, it has a dedicated industry, large giants, such as the Roads, Unity and many other business entities that are significant not only for western Serbia, but for our entire Republic. Užice is also a health center, and an educational centre, and a traffic centre, and a cultural and cultural law and these amendments and additions to the law, I see as one of the interspecies that Užice from the current economic centre of western Serbia has one day become officially the center of a new administrative region. An additional confusion in the whole story was brought by those who mentioned administrative districts. We know by the 1992 regulation what the purpose of the administrative districts is. No single member of this law deals with administrative districts. I don't think there should be any further confusion, first of all, towards the citizens, as far as administrative districts are concerned. I already said once that Užice is the center of the Goldibor Management District, and that's what's going to stay. What are the amendments and additions to the laws on which I would especially place the accent? In most of the debate today, this assembly discussed amendments in Article 5. Regional Development Act. The member refers to the number of statistical regions in the Republic of Serbia. Based on that member in the amendments and additions, we now have five instead of seven previous statistical regions. The pleasure opposition says this is a devastating solution for the town of Uzice and Western Serbia, and that for the town of Uzice was the best solution with seven statistical regions. Today I ask the question – were the MPs of the opposition who voted against this legal solution against the town of Uzica last July? They were against seven statistical regions. Today they say seven statistical regions are best for the Užice and Zlatibor district. I don't think simply amending and supplementing Article 5 is the only thing that matters is changing and supplementing this law. It is only when it comes to other amendments to the law that it is clear that this legal solution is a balanced legal solution and that only when we read every member, amendment and supplement, can we understand what the legislator was going to say. A very interesting change is in article 34, which defines regional development agencies. It is very important that in the old, to say the basic version of the law, there was a regional development agency within the region. We've got more today. What does that mean? This means that the pleasure regional development agency, one of the better in Serbia today, facing all municipalities of the Zlatibor district and western Serbia, will represent all those projects and all the requirements of local administrations that are facing the regional development agency. Is there any concern that Kragujevac will have the authority of a pleasure regional development agency, as the pleasure opposition says today, that the Užikani with their projects will have to go to Kragujevac? No, he won't. The US regional development agency will also take care of projects and entrepreneurship in western Serbia, all those local administrations that recognise the pleasure regional development agency as their own agency. On the other hand, Article 16 defines the development of a regional strategy. Will the Kragujevac Regional Development Agency, and at no time do I want to oppose Kragujevac Užica, but these are the views of the pleasure opposition, make a decision on the Western Serbian regional strategy? No, Article 16 says this very important development document will be submitted by the Republic authorities, but of course on a proposal from one or more regional development agencies. The regional development agency from Užica will propose to the national agency and the national council, which are the priorities of western Serbia. Also, members of the 24th and 25th define the national council and instead of 19 members to date, the national council will have 26 members. It has been extended to representatives of regional development agencies and western Serbia and the town of Uzice will have its representative on the national council. I've already said that in this assembly I represent the town of Uzice and western Serbia and I said I was proud of it. However, there are things that I am not proud of today because I represent some people who consider politics as a single struggle to life or death. Madam Chairman, please ask Mr Krasic to allow me to speak. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. (President: I thank you. Today in western Serbia, again as before, we hear that there are patriots and traitors. Again, we hear that some who represent some minority parties are seeking to have some of their sub-association, defined only by the principle of nationality. We have some local self-governments that scare their citizens, such as local self-governments in Prijepolje, Priboj or some other, say in Chatetina, which scare their citizens that Novi Pazar will be their center. Chaetin citizens have never gravitated to Novi Pazar and have no intention of reducing the value and importance of Novi Pazar, it is known which local administrations and which citizens are gravitating towards Novi Pazar. I hear from local politicians in Uzic that there is a fear of rebuilding, imagine, the Ottoman Empire. The leader of a local pleasure party says there is a restoration of the Ottoman Empire. He says he has a historical basis for his facts. I sincerely hoped that stories like this, not to say any rougher formula, would never in my life hear, or at least I hoped that my child and our children in 2010 wouldn't listen. These days, I was asked how and what to vote for when it comes to the Regional Development Act. I'll vote first, for life. I'm going to vote for the Uzis. I will vote for the highway from Belgrade to the southern Adriatic next to Uzic. I will vote for a bridge in Prijepolje that connects two coasts of Lima, I will vote for a business incubator in Priboj. I will vote for that trip from Sjenica to Novi Pazar, for the sports hall and kindergarten in Užica, for the tourist infrastructure in Chatetina. I will vote for Serbia that has already, for the time being, had to get out of the mud of national topics, which some political parties have lost their story on some other topics, and I am sure that this law will help Serbia get out of the mud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38389	Thank you. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been informed that within five to ten minutes, the official authority will arrive that the proposing representative is at these points by the end of today's session of Minister Verica Kalanovic. Do you want to take a break while we wait or can we continue our work? You agree to continue your work. Thank you. National MP Milan Veselinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I spoke to this high house before, I spoke about the addition of the law of the Privatisation Agency, and then, during my speech, Mr Dinkic, as before, gave an explanation to every speaker. Gentlemen, I didn't get a word from Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, although I was right, but in my culture and courtoise, I didn't want to compromise with her and convince her, because that's the quality of us Serbian radicals. But now I'm taking the opportunity to answer, first of all, Minister Dinkic, who transferred all the troubles to the '90s, and I was talking about strikes and privatisation that happened from 2001 to today. His fantastic stories continued by this gentleman from G17 plus from Užica will really, I believe, irritate the citizens and it won't be a miracle if we find out tomorrow that someone broke the TV screen or took the TV out of his room. I must speak to Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, who, not only wouldn't give me a word, but how she could ignore and go over the fact that Minister Dinkic has said here, that for all the troubles and problems with privatisation, she is responsible for the authorities of the 1990s. I must remind you, ma'am, we who have long been involved in politics, perhaps a little longer, and we remember, I remember that you were also a folk MP in this high house of those years, and I remember some of the big, difficult and destructive decisions that were made by that authority at the time. First of all, the blockade of Serbs on the Drina, the Predrin Serbs, then, in 2000, when these powders came, your ministers continued to work with them as if nothing had happened, so that you would afterwards support the minority government of DOS. I simply cannot believe that today you are involved in the adoption of such legal projects, such as this on regionalisation, which completely destroys the state of Serbia, disintegrates and in no way integrates. That means you and your SPS can't be immune to everything that's going on, but it's yours and your party's business. It's not my place to talk about it. I'm going to look back on what I need to talk about, and this is about these legal projects that are on the agenda today. The humiliating me was as a long-standing MP and the adoption of that declaration, the resolution on Srebrenica, and all this continues today to this law on regional development...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38391	I'm just gonna ask you to get back on the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38392	I'm talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38393	Please, Srebrenica isn't on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38394	But this is the consequence of today's regionalisation law, especially another law that you later set, which is the agreement between Turkey and the Republic of Serbia on infrastructure and investment in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38395	Please, you really have 60 minutes at your disposal, but please talk about the agenda anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38396	I am saying all of this with the aim of Serbia's citizens knowing that here because of certain MPs, representatives of minorities, seven or eight of them, in fact, all of this has been done in relation to you, most of you, and that through these legal projects, you are simply guarding and protecting the naked power that you are now in. That was my goal. I'll talk about the regionalization law. I'm sorry that Mr. Judjevic is not here today, who is also the creator of all these writings about the divine threat of Bosniaks in the Raška area, and I would ask him since he is a gentleman from Tutina, where there are only 2% of Serbs in Tutina -- how do these Serbs live there, how do they experience this law on regionalisation and are they discriminated against? In fact, directly to speak of a man who even wrote several books, fictional books related to the Raska area, he has now gone so far as to even change the names of inhabited places, so for example, in the Tutin municipality you have a inhabited place of the Church, he has crossed it into Cadillac. I don't know how far it's going to go, it's likely that Chanka, who is in charge of the organisation, will overcome the new border in the state of Serbia. Today we have on the agenda a law on regionalisation, a law which primarily Serbs in the Raška area did not support. First of all, it is not true that this is about the statistical divisions of the Republic of Serbia or economic development, this is about Mr Dinkic's pure political extremity and some other ministers, and the reason for this law that is being passed today is Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin, and of course they will have points with their Bosniaks in the Raška area, but I believe that all of you who support these laws on Serbia's further deployment will lose in the next elections. You have conducted discrimination against the people of the Raska region, first of all, against the Serbian people. That is why no one has asked the Serbian people, who is about to settle in the area as well as Bosniaks, and the catastrian property crosses over 70% in favour of the Serb people. In this way you force a part of the people of Serbia to accept some administrative centres for which they are not at all. I'm a man who talks about decentralisation of Serbia and I represent these interests, but not at this level, but the fundamental decentralisation of the planned, and given this law, if you wanted to help undeveloped areas, you had 29 districts, even closer even to these undeveloped municipalities, and normally you could have directed these funds in that direction, and you couldn't do it like this. With a bill like this, first of all with regional agencies, you simply bureaucratise society and continue to bureaucratise it by imposing a new impose on the taxpayers of the Serbian state. Through these regions, Mladjan Dinkic will normally form his new party, a new party called whether a party of the region or regional development, which will renegotiate his G17 Plus party and thus cover himself with some new name of the party, in order to deceive the Serbian people and again in the next elections manage to reach the authorities. I am convinced that this will not work for him this time, that even young children are clear about what is going on and I believe that Serbian citizens will punish the ideologists of this law, and above all Mladjan Dinkic, who is the gravedigger of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38397	The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38398	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the government, fellow MPs, if I were not from Novi Pazar and if I had listened to my colleague Veselinovic, I would simply think I live somewhere else or on the other side of this Serbia. I've known my colleague Veselinović for a long time, and we're both in the local parliament and here. When we have the opportunity to sit together here in Parliament and in Pazar, we solve these things together that we heard today in Pazar quite differently for our citizens presented. Our people in Pazar, in Sjenica, in Tutin, where I have contact, where on weekends I'm often in that space, I know they live much better than they hear from here, for two reasons. First, if this law is in the service of Serbian citizens, should the Bosniaks, Hungarians and others be silent and something be brought to the benefit of all citizens, if we can help too? The Sandzak Democratic Party and other parties that make up Bosniaks have never been blackmailed, but they had their stand, both around Srebrenica and around this law and about other things, not in order to stop this democratic power, but to make all citizens feel that we are respected in this House and that we have a way that we can influence that life in the area of the citizens who chose us makes us better and that we tell them that they have support from here. That's the first one. Secondly, my colleague from G17 mentioned a series of good things that are regulated by this law. I prepared it somewhere in the text, but not to repeat it. Let me just thank those who opened the other day that time, the highway from Pojat to Kragujevac and, you know, five or six years ago from Novi Pazar to Belgrade was on the road six or seven hours ago, and today travels four hours, and I hope that this trip with two or three lanes will be sooner or later to Pazar, and to the border somewhere towards Montenegro and somewhere else, and that those who come as investors here in Belgrade, so it is hard for them to travel further from Belgrade to southern or east Serbia, to have opportunities to come further from Belgrade, to see that they have a chance and that people live there, that they can invest and have reason to invest in that direction. What I would like to point out in this law is that there is no increase in administration and bureaucracy and no burden on the state budget of this law. The basic institutions that carry this law on regional development already exist and are lined up, of these agencies that exist before this law of local self-government, they will only be simply institutional and humane to strengthen to be able to perform their function. The Agency for Business Registers, which is related to this law, and performs its role only in the register of statistical data in the areas of the region that are defined through this law and they are necessary in order to be able to identify as soon as possible why a municipality is more developed than another, why some region or community of municipalities have some advantages and have some potentials that they can recognize, in order to develop these local regional agencies, create their capacity, work out good projects that can attract money. It is true that even right now we are using European funds through IPA funds. It is true that these are relatively small funds, but as long as we are approaching the EU we will use what is possible. It is true that many municipalities from Serbia have cross-border co-operation with many municipalities from other republics and are withdrawing funds. It is true that the Agency for Business Registers is using statistical data from business entities and they have created such a good base that at this point, without any payment of any person, every economic person can verify the value of a particular company. Such security is necessary and necessary for our citizens and our economy. The Republic Spatial Planning Agency, one of the institutions that are directed towards the functioning of this law, will regulate its rules in a way that the arranged spaces use geographically the potential in this direction, important to the citizens who live in that area, and that is an institution that already exists and operates. She's not burdening this country either. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is also in the role of all citizens of this Serbia. In addition, at this point all those living in undeveloped areas have better opportunities, lower interest up to 1% to use funds from the Development Fund. Until the other day, I should say, the first chance, which up to about 300,000 euros allowed every natural person to withdraw those assets by forming a legal entity and to start some of their first businesses. For all 40 municipalities in Serbia that have not developed 1% is interest. I wish our citizens knew there was this so-called. cheap money, cheap money that I can get through a serious project that can be competitive, to use. In addition, people can use all subsidies related to agriculture and they are available to our citizens. Mr. Veselinović knows that many companies and many agricultural organisations, i.e. associations in the area of Pazara, Sjenica and Tutina, have used these subsidies and today use it. Many became serious producers in the meat industry, in the dairy industry. As for the formation of national councils and councils of the region, if we'd like to have our paths in our space where we live, me and my colleagues from the opposition, we all agree that the road infrastructure is in poor shape, that it is gone. But I can tell you, this is not commendable without arguments, but it has been established in the last two years priorities and strategies in Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, because I know people who manage these municipalities, and I know how plans are made and I know that there is good co-operation with the Ministry of National Infrastructure in the local development centre activities, with Ms. Verice Kalanovic. I know that this year the large amount of funds is directed towards the roads in the territory of Novi Pazar itself, that the defined institutions are of social interest where schools are located, where health institutions are located and where religious facilities are located. That's where the roads are headed. What is most important, if we set up these already existing regional agencies, 12 of them as planned, they already exist, they do not burden this budget and this cannot be an argument of any opposition MP in any way, they are necessary as a school in the smallest place in Serbia. They are necessary here to train citizens to know how to organise themselves better, to work projects, to compete with these projects, to keep projects competitive so as not to fail, as Mrs. Micic pointed out that about 30%, which is true, funds from the fund fail and that is logical if the total funds used by the fund, about 72% or 73% succeed, this is the great thing in this country right now. I would like my fellow MPs from the Sandzak area to understand that their words can be understood here. I live with them both in the hallway, both in the restaurant and in various public hearings and on our committees here, but those who listen from this assembly of words that they say I would like to send a message that both this law and many other laws are not directed towards Bosniaks, are not directed towards any other minority or group, that these laws are order, work and discipline for all citizens in Serbia and that they have in every respect brought about something that promotes security and stability in this country. If anyone suspects, if someone wants to intimidate that people, wherever they are in that way, the state is primarily guaranteed both external and internal security in this country. The state is guaranteed personal property and facial property. The state is someone who helps the country develop and improve economically. The state serves us as the last, to say, defender or protector and in socially endangered situations and at a time when there is a difficult time in Serbia, when there is a large number of unemployed people. If you look at a series of moves specifically in Novi Pazar, Mr. Vesenovic, around people who strike about the "Raška" TEK, "The First Petoletka" or some other, the flood of strikes is across Serbia, I want citizens to know that for all those who lost their jobs by 2004 social and pension insurance has been settled. The state paid for it. It's hard to get to work. There is evidence in Pazar that our djinn producers or certain other types of textiles are constantly looking for people from that establishment who would work in factories, and I can tell you that they have trouble finding them. The principles of business are different. People have to accept new rules when they're hiring. "Fiat" has shown us these days that people have to have other qualities and they will pass various tests so they will be employed and have a better salary. At the moment, TEC "Raška" in Pazar, with the help of the Privatisation Agency, is restructured with local self-government and is divided into 39 parts that will be offered and from which the creditors will be reconciled. Of the 52 letters of intent, about 1,000 workers will be employed somewhere in these purchased plants and parts of the "Raška" TEK. "Vojin Popovic" is also in the stage of the offer, and "The First Five-year-old". What has been drawn together with the Privatisation Agency, with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and with local self-government are the priority of TEK ''Raška', 'Vojin Popovic' and 'The First Five-year-old' by the end of the year. I'd like to encourage people in that direction because these are the real things that people at the local level engage with these ministries on a daily basis. I only have one more request. If this law is in the development service, the more efficient functioning of institutions at regional level and people are afraid in some way of losing the center status, I think they have misinformed or misinformed their fellow citizens, forgetting that many of my colleagues were once in power in previous years. New Serbia and the DSS headed by Mr. Kostunica in 2003 had one proposal for a law on regions and on regional development with seven regions, where both Raška and Sandzak were scheduled as subregion, so that they would now be in position by the opposition and speaking to their neighbours, citizens, citizens, a new position of fear from the side of the opposition, and then from the position of authorities to propose such a thing, so it is hardly an honor. I think we should keep a maximum account. Yet people in that space are far closer to one another and more directed towards one another and at one another than people from here should undermine or send some kind of message of fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38399	Thank you, Mr. Poturak. (Milan Veselinovic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, there is no basis for replication. Nothing is offensive, it's all clear. (Milan Veselinovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just don't abuse it, I'll give you a sanction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38400	First, ma'am, this is a violation of Parliament's dignity, Article 104. As speaker of the assembly, you are making discrimination against me as a Serb from the Raška region because for the second time you do not give me a valid replica of Mr Munir Poturk's speech, and before that, you do not give me Mr Dinkic's speech. Please, the gentleman misread me. I greet him for exulting, he has the right to exult. He exults because his leader publicly, Rasim Ljajic, said – either there will be a region or there will be no government. He's pleased, I say hello. His Bosniaks will surely support his option. I was talking about Serbs in the Raška area who were discriminated, bypassed. I ask the question to Munir Poturka: why, then, for three or four months, they died all over the Raška area, saying that Muslims were disfigured, that all Muslims must be in one region if they are already talking about some kind of regional prosperity. Mr. Munir Poturak is talking about development. We have been in the coalition on several occasions at the level of the New Market and I personally support every foot of asphalt road, infrastructure if someone does, but should they bring Turkey to us for the sake of the roads and their businesses to work, to give us a loan that the state of Serbia will repay? Let us not discriminate against our businesses, Mr. Munir. What's a New Market road company gonna do? He started those paths. It's already partially done work on these roads. I want to explain what this is about. No one here is against anyone, but the creation of these regions is going directly to the harm of the Serbian state, especially the discrimination of Serbs in the Rasko area. (Munir Poturak, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38401	Mr. Poturak, there's no basis for replication. You've changed your arguments, it's all clear. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38402	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I haven't had a chance to follow the entire National Assembly session today, but I have heard that on this topic that should be developed, which should be a topic about Serbia's future, that the tones were fierce and sharp, that I should not be rude and call them another name. I won't go on in that tone. I want to share my experience with you. A little over a week ago, I was in the center of the Zlatibor County, in Uzic, at a meeting with the 10 presidents of the municipalities, however, not everyone came. Some did not come who did not want to meet with representatives of the executive government, which is not the first time and I do not mind them. They will probably be resented by those they represent because the topics were related to both the life and the standard of their citizens. Eight municipal presidents arrived and one topic was regional development. I wish at this point we had a picture of that meeting and the text spoken by representatives of all 10 municipalities, to see how much more reasonable there is in the words and heads of those people who come directly from the field and how much more appropriate their language is to what are the real needs of their people. Let us not let this full mouth of democracy in this congregation be filled with the mouth of hatred. I'm going to end this with something that the president of the town of Sjenica has said, and which is why I was truly embarrassed at that meeting. After a series of words about the threat of Serbs over this law, he asked this question – and indeed, what is the jurisdiction of the centre of the region, I did not see anything in this law to mention the jurisdiction of the centre? I answered – the center is gone and everyone who talks about the center today means they haven't read the law. There's no center of the statistical region, there's something that's a statistical representation of a territory. He said something else that made me feel ashamed. "Lords, I was born in the Shadow and I live here my whole life. I graduated from college in Belgrade and today I'm president. My home of health is tied to the Uzice, I apologize for paraphrasing him because I was truly excited, "I'm tied to Ivanjic's forest land, to the police with Pazar, with the Chamber of Commerce with the King. At no point do I feel myself as a endangered creature in the Municipality of Sjenica." I ask you, are you at risk in Serbia today if there are more Chinese in Serbia than we are Bosniaks? I didn't mean to make this public that you didn't mention projects and funding projects with the Turkish government. I think it is not good to ask today the question of interstate contracts and the support that various countries provide to Serbia in the reconstruction and development of infrastructure. I'm headed by a team signing a performance contract with the Chinese firm Bridges and Roads to build the Zemun-Borch bridge. I'm really interested -- are the Belgrade citizens at risk at this point by the Chinese? I am very pleased that 45% of the works are carried out by domestic performers and that the first to work the bridge is the Belgrade CIP. Don't be afraid for "The Ways of Užice" and Mr. Ljajic, I mean the director of "The Way of Užica", because he is already in the biggest negotiations with Turkish companies about the reconstruction of the road Pazar-Aljinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38403	I thank Mrs. Verica Kalanovic. National MP Jovan Nesovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38404	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, as soon as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development and as soon as we talk about regional development in Serbia is a storm. A storm that may be something called fear from the past, but as far as political parties are concerned, on one hand there are certain political demands that are manifested beyond that, and on the other hand is the presentation of classical untruths to earn some political points for voters in the middle where it is very important. I want to repeat just one thing, which is that in Užica the most controversy was about amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act, several political parties even staged a protest in front of the Užica City Assembly, and 30 people attended the protest, with all the transparencys. Indeed, these political parties need to take great care of how they address citizens. On the other hand, when you have the political demands of certain parties and when you want to make a law that is better than the previous one, then I think that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the government has well assessed that five statistical regions, which by population number are completely even, without any violations of administrative districts, are the only possible solution and in this law we have five statistical regions, which have a million and 600,000 to two million and some people. The two amendments that I will only make under this law are – Article 12 defines devasted municipalities. Devasted municipalities are those municipalities that have national income per capita below 50% of the republican average. The government isn't just waiting to apply this law and the IPA funds. Today, Mr Dinkic said that only business entities in these municipalities, 40 municipalities, would be granted 100m euros in credit under favourable conditions. The Ministry of National Investment Plan is working to develop infrastructure in these 40 municipalities. In order for people to survive living in these 40 municipalities, they have to have a better quality of life, which means they have to have quality infrastructure, have a job, and that means that some economic operators start working. It is good to estimate that the Ministry should invest only in those business entities that can have production and products that can be sold on the domestic and foreign markets. The second thing is about regional development agencies. The law states that – according to regions, the minimum number of regional development agencies is defined. The capital owners of regional development agencies are local self-government. Local self-governments are those that will assess the quality of the work of these regional development agencies. I am absolutely certain that those who do not meet the criteria, simply local self-government will no longer fund them, and on the other hand, I am absolutely certain that they will lose the license granted by the National Regional Development Agency. Today, there is a regional development agency in the Kingdom that is defined and financed from donor projects at the moment and covers several municipalities that are gravitating towards the King. I am absolutely sure that the interests of the city of Kings and people who are employed by these regional agencies can recognise quality projects, prepare themselves and can simply come to a license for development, to function for work, and beyond the realization of these projects to be their interest to make as many municipalities as possible co-operate with this regional agency. It is clear that local self-government autonomy is fully defined because those who do not want to be in one development agency will surely go to a neighboring agency and there is complete freedom. On the other hand, it is quite clear for the development of our municipalities, local self-government must also be passed a law on public property, because if you are not landowners, if you are not owners of a certain space, then you cannot strategically deal with development. I really expect this year to pass this law – the law on public property. I want to say that the other two laws - amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act and the Free Sale Act - are laws that are connected. Their change is to combine the Privatization Register and the Action Fund and create a stock fund that will be part of the Privatisation Agency. By selling actions from the privatisation fund and the action fund and public enterprises defined in this law, these funds will also be defined by actions with the funds to be distributed to citizens. It is also well defined that citizens can sell these actions, because they are securities of value on the market or simply empower the fund, to do so for them. One thing is, at this point, it seems very important to me, which Mr Dinkic said in his speech – it is the privatisation of national utility companies in Serbia. The strategy has not been adopted, and I think that this year the government must bring a strategy for privatising public utility companies, because many problems in the functioning of these companies, which means the quality service they provide to citizens at local level, has, is not good and can be greatly improved if these companies in the near future get majority private owners.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38405	There's a word from MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38406	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about the atmosphere in which these amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act are made, because I think it is extremely important for us from the LDP, especially for those of us who come from the national mixed environments. That is exactly what we talked about in July, and I will now quote, when we have warned you – you will be alone when you face Serbia that needs to live in accordance with this law, no one will be there for you, and that is our common problem. If you make a mistake, you will compromise one project that cannot be successful, such as the failure of the process of European integration of the country, such as it must not be a failure to face the past, as it must not be a failure to resolve everything that is wrong in our society. Because if we're talking about values, I guess we're talking about common values. Why did we warn you then? Because we were aware that some political options, which want to restore those values, a 90-year vocabulary, would use the ambiguities of this law on regional development, will mix the terms "counties", "districts", "statistics", and thus offer some national demagogy. That is why we are witnessing that in the area of Sandzak, in the area of western Serbia, when it comes to this law on regional development, it is currently talking about the regionalisation of Serbia, it is about the dispersal of Serbia, about the destabilisation of Serbia. That's not just what citizens are talking about. Worst of all, local self-government representatives and representatives of some state authorities talk about it. I will just read to you, for example, the conclusion of the Regional Chamber of Commerce, which said of this law: "The Management Board of the Chamber supports the Law on Regionalisation and decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia". They don't even know what law it is. Then, the Co-ordination Committee of the National Associations and Associations of the Zlatibor County says that they are protesting the significant administrative, educational, health, security and other affairs of Užica move to Novi Pazar and other centres in Serbia and that the economic and cultural development of Užica and Zlatibor County has long been ignored by the republican authorities. I read all of this from the Yearbook newspaper, published by the Uzican Association in Belgrade, where one of the presidents of the municipality on page 20 says, "It's all your fault, and we and them. We, because our cradles are getting more empty, you from various associations in Belgrade, because you took the cradles from these parts, they know what they're doing." That's the atmosphere we're talking about with this Regional Development Act. That's why I expected Mrs. Minister and colleagues from the ruling coalition that today you will respond to some of the discussions we heard earlier. Because what we're talking about, the Green Transversals, some Bosniak blackmails, it's not a problem, it's not Kenan, it's Minura, it's not the Sheriff, it's your problem from the ruling coalition. You had to react to what we heard here. We are witnessing that in the area of Priboj, Prepolje, Novi Varoshi there is a census, requests for a referendum to declare whether they will stay in one or another region and a variety of other nonsense. Why nonsense? Because individuals are trying to use this law to bring back politics from the '90s. You, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, have to react to that, because, again, it's not just our problem, it's a common problem. Don't be surprised when they show up in Arangelovac those lenses that came about for Mr. Ljajic, because that's how one clear message is given, and that message is – you're good as you pay taxes, while you go to the military, and as soon as you start thinking about the future of this country, then you're enemies, then you're extremists. Madam Minister, you and Mr Dinkic must make it clear to the citizens of Priboj, Prepolje, in the Sandzak area to answer the following questions, because these are the essential issues through which someone is trying to dissuade the citizens of these municipalities. These questions, although you have answered some, are they: is there a regional centre under this law, will citizens have to travel to some new regional centres because of this law, will the provisions of this law move the headquarters of certain republican authorities, which will be the regional development agency in charge of certain municipalities? They're answers for society, not for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38407	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38408	No statistical center, I've repeated many times. Like there's no center, there's no moving. Those who spoke when there were seven regions that the centre was one or the other, blew up their vanity. There are no centres in the statistical regions. They didn't exist at seven, and now they don't exist in five regions. The answer to the second question - there will be no disposal of the republican authorities, but there is one initiative and a proposal taken from the G17 Plus party, which I belong to, to come into decentralisation in the coming period and that certain republican institutions from Belgrade are dislocated to cities in Serbia and that initiative will continue. The answer to the third question, I can't remember exactly how you defined it, related to regional development agencies -- regional development agency and Uzic, and in Pazar there will be until the moment it is assessed by the national agency positively or negatively. So there's no privilege where she is. She has to meet certain standards. If she doesn't meet in Uzic the existing, she'll fill in the second newly founded. Užice will have its own agency and municipalities that are established will have an impact on the work of the agency as they do today. There will also be an agency in Novi Pazar and founders will also have influence today, but those agencies must pass the verification at the national regional development agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38409	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38410	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, if you look at this transmission in these morning hours, it will be the morning time when one topic opens up in Serbia, and when this topic serves to ask a question based on this topic, which will be shown among the citizens as a fateful question, which in a fateful way defines the future of this country, and this question is again used to provide a response to it that will divide citizens into patriots and traitors, is a clear signal and a message that some political parties have not learned lessons from the past, that they have not made a decisive step towards the time that comes to meet us, and especially when we do in these hours of recapitulation of what we have heard here today. It was in this debate today using various arguments. I'm not going to repeat these chosen words that are not for a lofty home, I'm not going to repeat those arguments that some have made as a result of the lack and dullness of the blade attack on this law, but I want to recapitulate something that I really heard today and as a people's MP of DS and Kruševljani's bothers me. We had an argument where the place of argument was dominated by instincts, emotions, and some strange feelings that are not unique to people who are thinking clearly. If someone calls for instincts, emotions, if someone has a clearly developed conditional reflex that every majority opinion he hears in this apriori hall declares hostile, that aprioria, as soon as the majority opinion does not comply with his views, he obviously uses the policy of conditional reflexes. Do we who are at the sight of the policy of conditional reflexes need these arguments in such a way as to answer? Do we even have to participate in a discussion where instincts and emotions are used as arguments? I'm a graduate agricultural engineer, and I've learned something and physiology. He says physiology is the center for conditional reflexes in a small brain. If a man wants to be a successful politician, he has to use the big brain, as well as everything in life. The big brain is a center for creative thinking, a memory center, so that creative thinking, and that memory gives me the right to ask first people who criticise the law in this way -- sorry, were you maybe up to four, two or three years ago in power in this country? Yes, it is. What kind of decentralisation model did you offer Serbia? Not at all. Why? Because decentralisation is for some deadly danger. Because for some decentralisation, it's only a battle for its party interest. Some of the decentralisations brought down to the government's meetings in Serbia, so we had the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia who held the Serbian government's meetings all the time, and that was his topic of decentralisation. On the other hand, we also had a topic of decentralisation used in principle -- I hate Belgrade, Belgrade is the worst city in the world, all the money goes to Belgrade, and I don't like Belgrade. That's how someone sees decentralisation. Serbia will only be integrated into the EU if each part of it develops evenly. What does decentralisation really mean? There's no essential decentralisation, it's true, without returning property to local self-government. There is no fundamental decentralisation until some of the responsibilities that are now transferred to municipalities are restored and some of the jobs that are now being carried out as confidential until they are left to local self-government to carry out them. But decentralisation to paint, show and explain as drawing some new maps of Serbia, which will lock us in national cargo, which will lock us up in national homogeneous communities, which will be some threat to an entity, is very dangerous. Today after this debate, what do we have as a fact? We have in Subotica on the side of Peter Kuntic, who sits next to me in this row, on the side of the Democratic Union of Croats, the inscription – Croats, march from here. It's not decentralisation, it's not even nationalism, it's chauvinism. I am very sorry that this is happening in Serbia. Those who discuss in Serbia in this way how much they contribute to such graphites should ask themselves. On the other hand, we also had some unloving scenes in parliament today. Parliament is an institution, according to public opinion surveys, which enjoys very little support from citizens precisely because of such discussions. We had the fact that some said the law was bad, that the law was confusing and that it was wrong to have five regions, and when we voted for seven regions, they were against it. Now they see it later and say seven regions are enough. Again, we have some people who say that this law, in addition to drawing new maps and drawing new borders and dividing Serbia, is a dangerous tendency for Serbia to be feudalised. You know, someone who's read a little history, so look at the history of 1809, 1810, 1811, history when in Serbia under Karadjordje's district today they've been divided into a lot more petty Nahi, and when the Serbia princes' obor argued over who's the greater prince of Serbia and who's going to have a bigger nahi, someone's going to wonder, have we even stepped through history out of the time of the princes and the nahi? See the time when the Obrenovic dynasty was replaced with the Karadjordjevic dynasty. Once again, the conflict over jurisdiction, whose nahiji will be greater, and whether a najih who supported Obrenovice will now have some privileges that do not belong to her and whether she will be punished for not supporting Karadjordjevic. Look at 1903 and the murder of Alexander Obrenovic. It wasn't until during King Peter's 100-year division that we passed. Do we need this division again, this argument, this debate? Of course they're not, and you're aware of that. Give me a European state that has fallen apart because of regionalization. None. Have some countries, including ours, fallen apart several times because we didn't understand the problem of regionalisation and decentralisation? If you don't believe me, look back at 20 years, you might find an answer to my question. In the end, I have to make a few criticisms about what we've all been hearing in this room and some arguments that have been used here. I think that mentioning the impact of some people during their term of office, what they did, what they didn't do, gave the best answer to it by voters in the election. If anyone in Serbia's decentralisation calls for new elections, he is doing a useless job. Criticize the law with argument, criticise the law with facts, but do not criticize the law with instincts and emotions, because it did no good to anyone. Mrs. Verice Kalanovic, I must say, I am Kruševljanin, you are from Pomorava, decentralisation I observe through the prism of creating economic conditions that our region is progressing and therefore I ask you to insist on building the Pojate-Preljina highway, that we all join efforts, opposition and positions, the power is a variable category, the most difficult in the opposition for the first 30 years, once, if we may get lucky for them, when we make that highway, we will not isolate it after our mandate, it will remain for the use of all citizens of our region, and therefore I ask you to continue pooling efforts continue to take these useful steps that essentially carry out Serbia's decentralisation. I'm not sure my friend Munir Poturak and I will ever talk in this country in roming. I will go to Novi Pazar and congratulate Bajram, he will congratulate me Easter, like all these years, and we will live in a common region, we will have the same and common goal as all people. Every man in this country, if he's normal, has only one ambition – that his children live better than he does. Let's leave our children less trouble, and more benefits than our politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38411	National MP Milan Avramović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38412	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, the Honorable President of the Assembly, you as chairman should take care of what the MPs say. So, Article 104. If someone needs to teach us lessons here on any subject, it is the least representative of the ruling party Srdjan Milivojevic. If you haven't heard what he said about lessons for the past 20 years, of which he's ten years in power and if you haven't heard about him not talking about the law, like every time he doesn't talk about the law when it comes to the word, but the story of negative phenomena happening in his period of government, and they're being installed in the '90s, then we all need to count on what the dignity of the National Assembly looks like. So, by who knows which time the same MP, the phone messenger, who has no other obligation than to muddle the MPs with a negative context from the '90s, in which he was not the authority, I don't think it solves one big problem that we all call upon, which is the dignity of the Assembly. The dignity of the Assembly is not built by attacking someone not to talk about the law, and you do it first. The dignity of the congregation is not built by addressing individuals personally and attacking them for something they did not do. And I ask you, as chairman, as someone who was in power in the 1990s, to keep an eye on what certain members of the government are saying in the future, I will not now enter into these details whether the MPs from those political parties whose minister is present, but this MP, Mr Srdjan Milivojevic, our colleague, has only one task, which is that he violates the dignity he calls upon himself. So I'm asking you to respond in the future, so it's not us, because it really doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38413	Mr Avramovic, I belong to that group of MPs who think parliamentary work is something that is our business, not political action. It may be that I do not always react, but it is quite right to make a contribution to the reputation of this Parliament in a way that affects yourself and those around you, above all. If you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, do you want to make a statement in Parliament's voting day? I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Yes, you do. Thank you. National MP Sasa Milenic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38414	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the limitations in time, I will only talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Equal Regional Development. First of all, I would like to point out my party's position together for the Shumadi, which has become available to the public since we have been able to hear through the means of public information that this amendment and supplementation will enter the assembly procedure. Here I only repeat that this is a reason for the public commendation and compliments on the account and the resolution ministry, and the minister, and Prime Minister Cvetkovic and his government for the specific sensitivity and listening to arguments in public life, which the kids would say, because this is the government we fought for, which does not build its legitimacy by establishing the principles of its own infallibility, but by just caring for the principles of tolerance, listening, respecting specificities, different arguments and responding to such arguments. Of course, it would not be possible, however, if, in the law as we adopted it this summer, that possibility had not been provided for only by government regulations to determine and define what was the subject of criticism as a lack in the text of the law itself, and that was that the law was without any cartography. This meant that the proposal at the time correctly envisioned the sensitivity of the field situation and that, therefore, it would be necessary to calibrate the only assumption that it was not included that the feedback could also lead to the change of the region's assumed number. I am particularly expressing, on behalf of the Party Together for the Forest, the gratitude and satisfaction that our specific objections regarding the Rekovac municipality, which, you will admit, are standing on the west side of Kragujevac, which is Serbia's strict centre, really had no reason to believe that for purely mathematical and statistical reasons, it belonged to the region of eastern Serbia. What I would especially talk about in the rest of the time is an explanation of a trivial fact, a elemental finding, but for which, for a wonderful miracle, I feel like I have to climb up against all the media and news on this subject, I need to focus and outreach them. This isn't the regionalization law. I repeat, this is not a law on Serbia's regionalisation. Aman, you can see from what I'm saying that I'm talking about spinning, that you're free, just like this year's law amending the provisions of the Public Information Act and being criticised from the point of view of contributing to freedom of public information, was not at all meant to increase freedom of public information, but rather to contribute to the fight against organised crime in the means of public information. Like, let's say, the object of the Pride Parade, which turned into a public debate into a story of social acceptance of homosexuality, and it's not about that, it's about that (President: Time. Whether freedom of public gathering is a universal right in Serbia. Who spins the story that this is the regionalization law? They, of course, have the same reason against corruption in public information (President: Bring the End). "), those who do not want the universal right to freedom of public gathering and democracy of Serbia, they also do not want Serbia's decentralisation, trying to mention the economic law on equal regional development to intimidate the public with some kind of dispersion of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38415	MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38416	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at first I must say that it is really inappropriate for four such important laws to be joined into one debate, so that we are not allowed to discuss them in a quality way, and it is especially necessary to point out that there is no transposition and that what we are talking about will now be broadcast in some early morning hours when no one will look at it. Since I don't have enough time, I'm going to talk about the privatisation law and the law on the right to free action in particular, since I have submitted amendments to those laws. Now I'm going to be based on the regional development law. It is known that Serbia is characterised by extremely large differences in the level of development between certain regions, especially municipalities. These differences are clearly visible when considering that the average salaries range from 14 to 57,000, when the unemployment rate in certain parts of Serbia, the unemployment ratio measures at 1:10, when 80% of investments in recent years invested in Serbia are invested within 50km around Belgrade, when the land price is several hundred times the land price depends on where it is located. It's the last time they start their activities to reduce these huge differences. Unfortunately, this law will not solve your problems. Government representatives, especially lately, are talking about the necessity of even development, about the relationship of decentralisation, and something quite the opposite is happening on the ground. It is not possible to talk about even development and that the transfer funds for municipalities and cities in Serbia are reduced by 50% and thus a huge number of municipalities and cities in Serbia are literally brought to the limits of the functioning of these local self-governments. By shutting down more than 100 municipal courts in Serbia, closing down rural primary schools, rural infirmarys, shutting down some other institutions, not contributing to even regional development, but rather making the differences even bigger and leading to new migrations of the population from the village to the cities and from municipalities and cities from Serbia to Belgrade. It cannot be talked about even development, and it annuls the concession to build a highway from Belgrade to Požega, which connects half of Serbia and which is a key precondition for Western Serbia's development and the creation of an environment favourable for investors to come to that part of Serbia, two years saying that the government will start to build this road and in those two years it will not do a metre. In order to stop migration and to reduce the differences in the level of development between the region and municipalities in Serbia, it is necessary to decentralise the authorities in such a way as to enforce the rights of economic and fiscal decentralisation of the authorities, to adopt the law on public property, which you have proposed, and that is good, unlike this law. This assembly passed the Regional Development Act eight or nine months ago. He hasn't even started to apply yet, and today we have amendments to that law. For what? Stories that the law is being amended to harmonise the number of residents do not drink water for reasons because Eurostat agreed to a law adopted last year. The law did not even begin to apply to detect any deficiencies in its application. I'd really like to know why the law is changing. Today we've heard all sorts of stories here about what these reasons are. I think the government has succumbed to the requirements of Bosniak parties, their demands that all six municipalities in which Bosniaks live be found in one statistical region. I will read to you a piece of the letter that Esad Djudjevic, president of the Bosniak National Council, sent to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, seeking to put aside the administrative districts regulation. Putting out of force of the regulation will allow members of the Bosniak national minority in Serbia to, in accordance with the announced amendments and additions to the Law on Regional Development, exercise the constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. The announced changes of six Sanjay municipalities will be found in one statistical region, allowing the government to make up a single administrative area by a special regulation of the six municipalities in which Bosniaks live. This was not written by anyone, this was written by the MP of this assembly, a member of the ruling coalition. So, since the talks of the '90s were mentioned today, some language from the '90s, I've been asking, since when is this language, from what time is this language and this speech? Then you wonder why there is concern in the Zlatibor County, especially in the municipalities of Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, as well as in the town of Užica, which is a natural economic, administrative and cultural centre of the entire Zlatibor district. There's anxiety about letters like this and announcements like this. The minister himself today said he personally advocated the abolition of administrative districts. How can the citizens of the Zlatibor County believe, after accepting the requirement to change the Regional Development Act, to change the number of statistical regions so that these six municipalities can be found in one region, how can we believe that you will not succumb to such demands that these six municipalities are located in one area? The municipalities of Preboj, Prepolje, Nova Varosh, they're naturally tied to the Užice. I guess citizens of these municipalities have the right to express their dissatisfaction with such laws and such announcements. It's the meaning of a petition signed in these municipalities. A large number of citizens and Prepolje, both Priboba and Novi Varoshi signed these petitions, around 5,000 citizens of Prijeboj, 5,000 citizens of Novi Varoshi, in which they ask that if the government forms some areas with its future regulation which they consider to be out of line with the interests of citizens of these municipalities, the congregations of these municipalities will discuss the referendum to declare in a referendum whether they want to live in such an area. If you're talking about Europe, European standards, I'm under the impression that there's a division of ethnic principles here that European regionalization standards don't know. The basic criteria for decentralisation should be economic criteria and the objective of decentralisation should be a balanced regional development and a right to decentralisation of government in Serbia. In addition to representatives of citizens from these municipalities, the petition is also being gathered here in Belgrade, the Co-ordination Body of Ancient Associations, nine traditional associations from the Zlatibor County, as well as the Stara Raška humanitarian organisation, are also collecting signatures and I think several thousand signatures have already been collected here in Belgrade. I can't understand that you're accusing the representatives of the opposition of bringing unrest and confusing the public. The riots bring such letters and riots to you who accept such demands without only the opposition doing so, that's what all citizens in these municipalities do. The municipality of Nova Varoš, the SO unanimously adopted a declaration that opposed these amendments to the law, opposed to changing the borders of the administrative districts. That was voted by DS representatives, G 17 plus, SPS. Representatives of SPS and PUPS are collecting signatures in Priboj, both in Prijepolje and Novi Varosha. Do not accuse the opposition of bringing confusion and unrest. It is simply one reaction of the people of the Zlatibor district to these letters and events. They thus voice concern about what will happen after the adoption of this law, which are the government's next moves and whether the regulations will abolish the administrative environment, whether their borders will be changed and whether some artificial areas will be formed by ethnic principles. I don't think it's in anyone's interest, not to Serbs or Bosniaks. I think basic criteria must be economic criteria. I think it is necessary to decentralise Serbia, fiscal decentralisation, I think it is necessary to invest more significant resources in infrastructure. That's what the citizens of Serbia need, not a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38417	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38418	It is really not right for someone from the Cheetah municipality to criticise the government not to do anything outside Belgrade. If we did something somewhere, we invested tens of millions of euros on Zlatibor. If you'd raise the Tornik yourself? If we had two billion dinars, budget revenue, even though you're a tourist spot, and Soko Banja in the south has 200 million dinars, if it wasn't for the help of the Republic? It is not fair that you attribute everything that is bad to the Republic, and that you attribute everything that is good to yourself. In doing so, everyone is saying that Mr. Stamatovic, Mayor of Cajetin Municipality, is behind this whole ujdura which you are now promoting throughout the Assembly all day, riots in the Užičko County – DSS – New Serbia and others who are with you. It's not fair because you're raising people needlessly, because this government will never make areas according to national key, but exclusively in economic terms. I think you need to be aware that it's easy to build fire, it's easy to cause fire, it's hard to put it out. You act irresponsiblely like people. I'm not talking to you as an opposition, it's not allowed. Lies, fostering hate internationally, these are illicit things. It doesn't matter what time it's said, whether the cameras are recorded, these are important things and important to Serbia. Of course I'll go to Uzice, but it should be a shame for you and Stamatovic to be behind this, and so much has the Republic invested in you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38419	Mr. Arsen Đurić, replica and Mr. Munir Poturak, replica. First Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38420	I really didn't in any single word accuse the government of investing a little bit in the municipality of Chatin or in Zlatibor. I don't know where you got it or where you heard it, or when you said it. That's right, the government has invested a lot in the Tornik ski centre. Thanks to these investments, Zlatibor holds a leading position when it comes to tourism. It's not at all the subject of today's conversation, nor did I say anything on the subject. You can't accuse me of spreading religious hatred. I mean, it's a very difficult qualification. I was just talking about the interests of Serbs and Bosniaks living in the territory of the Zlatibor district. We need decentralisation of authorities in terms of fiscal decentralisation, in terms of greater investment in infrastructure. I read a letter from the ruling Esad Djudjevic coalition, which he referred to the Prime Minister, asking for an area to be formed according to ethnic principles. It wasn't me, nor Mr Stamatovic, it was Esad Djudjevic. The reaction of the citizens of the Zlatibor district, especially in the municipalities of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, is to these statements and to such demands, and to fear what will happen after the adoption of this law, whether the government will accept such demands and whether it will succumb to pressures or these demands. I don't know, there's also a flier that's shared with the citizens with the signing of the petition. I don't see here any religious, national hatred of citizens from the Goldibor County. We want even development and economic decentralisation. The recent past teaches us that ethnic and religious divisions do not bring prosperity, but conflict and trouble. The disintegration of the former Yugoslavia has assured us that the short path from the formation of ethnic territories is to the requirement for independence and secession. We want strong and prosperous Serbia, not Serbia divided into nahiji and torn by ethnic principle. We want investment and integration, not division and migration. We want new jobs, not national and religious slaves. We want to live together, not against each other. I don't really see any religious or national intolerance here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38421	Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38422	I'd ask you a question -- wasn't it more appropriate when you saw this letter you're talking about asking the government or the resolution ministry, is this what the government is going to do? By the way, you're going on a campaign, collecting signatures, raising people on the basis of something that hasn't happened, and it's not going to happen, and nobody's going to happen in Belgrade or in the government. The formation of areas by national principle is out of the question wherever in Serbia. That's not the point of this law. Wasn't it more normal and more natural to ask me as a minister who is in charge or anyone in the government? What do you think of this, what is your position? Only, eventually, if you get an answer that you don't like then you organize a people and you raise people to sign petitions. I think it's a proper procedure, because it's sensitive issues. Legally, it is, because of course you can collect petitions for everyone, but these are sensitive questions. You don't have to play with international relations. It was correct to ask the government, wait for the debate on the law. This law doesn't talk about these things at all. The direct answer from the minister responsible for this is that no areas in Serbia will be formed, not in the Zlatibor County, in Raška, but nowhere by national principle. This law is exclusively aimed at speeding up more even regional development. Don't make a fuss about the people on the subject that isn't to rebel.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38423	There's nothing more vague. No more ground for replicas. National MP Ivan Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38424	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, Minister, is today before us the law on amendments to the Regional Development Act. This is one good basis to start worrying about Serbia's even development. What has been missing for years and what is a major disturbance, it is the departure of citizens from the edges of Serbia and areas that have been devastated by unbalanced regional development. Regional development agencies may, with the help of this law, further develop their activities and need to carry out education and should also carry out the technical equipment of these regional agencies unless they meet the needs of the population of those regions. What is most important in the application of this law and what is most important in equal regional development is the development of infrastructure that is not at all even in Serbia and not all Serbian citizens have the same conditions for life, as not all businessmen have the same conditions for innovation. It is not enough just to equip an industrial zone, it is also necessary to secure the way to that industrial zone. What impairs citizens in Serbia's villages is poor infrastructure, they have no phone, they have no roads. I shall set an example of a village on the slopes of Golia, that village of Rudno. He's traveling to the King for two hours, that's 40 kilometers. From the Kings to Batocina for another two hours, that's 80 kilometers. From Batocina to Belgrade for an hour and that's about 116 kilometers. It travels four times longer than the village of Rudno to Batocina, than from Batocina to Belgrade. That's the thing, the real thing that's for Serbia. What the government started, construction of highways, construction of infrastructure, construction of forest ring, highway South Adriatic, highway Pojate-Preljina and then continued to Užica and to Baji's Garden, as well as the completion of Corridor 10. This is what will allow millions of Serbian citizens to travel, what will allow businesses to have more competitive products, what will allow farmers to place their products within a reasonable time. Today, one of the opposition's MPs mentioned that there is no water in certain parts of Serbia and mentioned the city of Kraljevo that water is missing. I would like to inform the National Assembly and the MP that the expansion of the Wirefield raises the flow of water and that the citizens of the Kings are soon to have 450 liters of water per second, so much of that source produces, and all the citizens of the Kings have drinking water, which was not the case in the previous six years when the gentleman mentioned was in power. In 10 months, the DS and the ZES parties, as far as they were in power in the King, provided that all citizens had healthy drinking water. Water supply is not the main problem of the region from which I come, there are many other problems, some I mentioned, 50% of the population live in the country, many of these villages have no telephone, no roads, no lighting, but I think that this law, through regional development agencies, through real projects, either from the Republic of Serbia's budget, from the IPA funds, European Commission funds, can improve the lives of these people, and I think Serbia is going in the right direction. The DS MPs will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38425	National MP Goran Mihajlovic or Nikola Žutic, I do not know how you agreed. Mr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38426	Mr. Minister, the Regional Development Act seems to be just about the benign so-called. statistical regions. However, unrest and anxiety among Serbian citizens creates, for example, a protest between Bosniak and Muslim politicians and Mufti Zukorlic against statistical regions, as several territorial units with Muslim populations remained outside the so-called "Muslim population". The statistical region, i.e. the territory of Raška or Sandzak units, did not remain within one region. I don't understand why so much excitement if it's just a benign law. Otherwise, the notion of a region in today's European interpretation is a larger territorial unit even than small Serbia itself. The European region represents, for example, the territorial concept of the Western Balkans. Excessive regionalism in one country is a separate particularism, i.e. regionalism marks rural patriotism, a province spirit that often produces aspirations for rural independence. In Serbia's case, following the unfortunate historic Serbian practice in Yugoslavia, regionalism will increasingly represent the stateship or multi-ethnicisation of Serbia. In addition, the creation of such regions is a dangerous precedent in a small country, especially the presence of regional integration, i.e. a reduction from seven regulated regions to five regions. This integration of the region leads to the imminent federalisation of Serbia. The process will nevertheless be gradual, first statistical regions, economic regions, which will increasingly become political regions. I also warn of a negative Yugoslav experience for the Serbian people. Sometimes Yugoslavia was divided into provinces during the monarchy period, as a historical heritage, into 22 areas, and into nine bananas and the territory of the Belgrade city administration, then in the republican period of six republics. So, the number of territorial units has been reduced, only in Serbia has it increased, by establishing two independent provinces, Vojvodina and Cosmeta, which were immediately after the socialisations were designed as future states. Today, after the vote of the separatist duodenal statutes, we have a freak state-run administrative set in which Vojvodina is in the position of the Separatum Corps, the relations of an isolated body from the state of Serbia. It is normal that new district lords from the rest of Serbia will not calmly see the duchy red tape uninterrupted about their boss spending Serbian state money at the expense of the people of Serbia and Vojvodina, with very little left to do while the multiply of the duchy bureaucracy is at hand. Oligarchy from the rest of Serbia, Šumadija, Moravska Banovina, Sandzak, etc., wants to have state money on the same principle. So today, a nakaradic, territorialally looking, asymmetric Serbia, is created, which cannot survive in this form because of the territorial and therefore economic appetites of the new oligarchy in those new provinces. I would remind you that asymmetric state and territorial projects, because of their unsustainableness, only brought evil to the Serbian population, but also to the former Yugoslavia. After the asymmetrically small Vojvodina constitution's vote, the wave of federalisation of Serbia must inevitably continue. Contemporary district lords are unrelentingly expecting their territorial prey and their political and therefore economic domination in the new regional feuds. On many occasions in the Assembly, I said that after each Serbian people of the imposed state and territorial asymmetry, evil broke out, war in 1941, and war in 1991. Following historical analogy and the extreme negative experiences with anti-Serbian workers throughout the 20th century, nothing good is expected from the new statute, which again projects asymmetric state of Serbia with the state of Vojvodina, which will create SFR Serbia by its domino effect. In the past year, new Serbian federalists from the ruling coalition have been openly saying that new provinces of the state, Shumadija, Sandzak, Moravska Banovina and others will also be established after Vojvodina. To conclude, all citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia should be concerned about the dangers they will be exposed to as the new statute is being voted upon to create a state of even greater inequality between local regions, which will eventually cause conflict situations. So, by the state-owned constitution of this godforsaken body of the Duke, which is done by the so-called So-called "Vojvodina". democratic changes in 2000, a state-level asymmetric Serbia is being created, which will eventually become an asymmetric Socialist Federal Republic of Serbia, with numerous capitals of the region and the politics of the state of Belgrade, which also separates Gilas mayor in an overly independent administrative area. The current formation of new regional parties just confirms such tendencies. The Arangelovac elections will show whether the people will fall for dangerous stories about this regionalisation of Serbia. Currently, for strategic reasons, fans of the remaining province's regionalisation, i.e. regional government of Serbian territories, have calmed down. A caravan of regional separatisms, led by Serbian Parliament Speakers Vojvodina in the autumn as well as local regional politicians Kragujevac and Nis, who are fighting for Serbia's religious demethropolisation, also contributes to Serbia's further collapse as a state, the collapse of state-run republican institutions and the strengthening of the EU's prescribed anti-Serbian concept of state-owned regionalisation of Serbia. Afterward, Rasim Ljajic was involved in the project, establishing a new regional party in Serbia. It is incomprehensible that the ideas of regional separatism are carried out precisely by members of the ruling Canak coalition, Kostres, Pajtic in Vojvodina, Veroljub Stevanović in Šumadija, Bosko Ristic and comrades from the SPS in Nis and in recent times Rasim Ljajic through his mentioned regional party in Novi Pazar. We from the SRS agree that Serbia's decentralisation is necessary through strengthening local self-government, municipalities and districts, without regions. This would also restore the old traditional self-government of Socialists and Radicals Pere Todorovic and Nikola Pasic in the Principality of Serbia. We are wondering what the province or regional mediators between the main territorial unit of the municipality, the district and Belgrade as the centre of the republican authorities are about. In a complicated administrative and territorial system, money is the easiest to acquire, and thus only increases state costs. It is normal that the Serbian people will then be asked, as in Vojvodina – where our money and additional poverty are at stake. So administrative decentralisation is necessary, but it is a very dangerous political federalisation that will inevitably follow. Mr. Minister, your assessment today is not correct that regionalization has been carried out in Croatia. In Croatia, there are counties that are former cotters. They're small regional administrative units. A statistical regionalisation by the Serbian model in Croatia would be carried out if it were divided into historic regions of Istria, Dalmatia, Slavonia, the Banska hrvatska Krajina. How do you feel about one of these regional laws being passed in the Croatian Parliament? Well, I think the authors of such laws would probably be lynched by Croatian nationalists.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38427	The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, here goes 20 years from the moment the first Privatisation Act was passed. In this same home 20 years ago, the first Privatisation Act was passed, which laid the foundations of privatisation, 20 years was many. So we're world records in the privatisation process in the world. Come on, let's be in something first. On average, it was in Eastern Europe, where social property and state property existed, the procedure was completed over a period of four to seven years. When the creators of the 2001 Law of Privatisation came out with the proposal and were promoters of new privatisation and new conditions and privatisation procedures, then Prime Minister Djindjic, Djelic, Vlahovic and others went with certain projections on the amount of property to be privatised. The amount of 45 to 55 billion German marks was then shown. Which today, if they turned it into euro, would be about 30 billion euros. We know that between 2001 and today we have included about three billion euros for social enterprises. What happens to the remaining amount? Thirty billion, and we know that today in the privatisation process we have a sum of three billion. Who's wrong? What were these analyses that showed that it was the amount of foreign exchange assets at the time, German stamps, 45 to 55 billion marks? It's a failure ten times, a thousand percent, or someone donated the former social property. Furthermore, when we talk about the privatisation process, then we must say that the 2001 Law procedure has been extended twice and the current Privatisation Law has ended with 31 December 2008, but only on paper. The privatisation process is not complete. He's still running. Today we have a privatisation agency that schedules privatisation procedures. The day-to-day process of termination of the contract, the conclusion of new contracts and the procedure continues. Until when? Is it serious, 20 years, is it serious from one authority to proceed so long? Can we stop him and we have to? We have to. It's imperative. It is the task of this authority, but what is worth, it has twice given itself the task, has extended the deadlines and said it was December 31st, and it was not December 31st, 2008, and today we cannot know when it will be completed. Maybe in a year, maybe three, maybe five, we don't know how much. What about the funds that have been included since 2001, of these three billion, think-society social enterprises, of 6.5 billion total in the privatisation process so far? I'm talking about three billion. The Privatisation Act in Article 61 was clearly and imperatively imposed on 50% to invest in the development and restructuring of social enterprises. Is that done? It's not. Only the changes of these funds are invested in the development and restructuring of enterprises. The Development Fund Act, which had to receive all these funds, obliged the current authority to transfer 1.5% of the social product through the budget to the Development Fund and to invest, among other things, in regional development, but mainly in development. How much has it been invested? Very little. Some percentages again. This best shows us the balances and financial plans of the Development Fund. Ten or eleven billion dinars, which is a very small percentage of what should have been invested in development. That's why in our privatisation, according to your data, we had about 250,000 people who lost their jobs in privatisation. Why did they lose their jobs? Why hasn't the foreign currency made an effort to recover the workforce through the Development Fund, through certain other funds, including the banking system, through credit lines, which has run out of work? When we talk about 250,000 people who lost their jobs, these are official statistics, I have your data ahead that we can find on multiple government and ministry sites, however, real data is far more devastating. The number moves up to 500,000 people who have lost their jobs, lost their perspective, lost their future, only because of reckless work, illegal and anti-constitutional work by these and previous governments. When we talk about the second law, the law on free division of actions, we must say that the creator of this law was the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but we cannot say and limit ourselves to the Ministry alone. This is the current power that came out with the projection of free division of action, which is in accordance with the law correct. However, the financial indicators you showed in this law did not give you the right. You promised citizens thousands of euros in pre-election activities in 2008 as a form of fee, i.e. free action. What did that mean financially? It meant 15% of about 25 billion euros from the sale of six public enterprises. So far, a company has been sold. We're changing this law. We're about to sell Telecom, another company in that set. Can we expect this power, ministers, to ask you a question with which calculations you went out when you promised 1000 euros? You need from privatisation now at least 32 or 33 billion euros in order to be able to unmask what you promised in the election campaign, not just you, but the entire current coalition government, except the SPS, who were a little winky there and here. You need 33 billion euros right now to pay a thousand euros to anyone who has received free action. How realistic is that? Is that extremely unrealistic? Why? Because we have almost all the reported companies lost. We've got a lot of debt. The cumulative debt of public and public-communal enterprises, at the moment, with the 2009 billing, is four billion euros. The debt of these companies and the institution is four and a half billion euros. Their property is melted, they're lost. How to cash something that's failed, that has no real value? How do you reach 33 billion euros? Minister, it's a fog that you, among other things, spread through this law. When we talk about amendments to the Regional Development Act, you've said dozens of times here it's statistical regions. The law cannot bear the name of regional development because it has no attribute of development, no financial, no economic, no economic, no demographic, no other. This law should bear the name of the law on statistical regions. The real name was supposed to be that way. If you really wanted to develop regions, then you would do so through the Development Fund because one of the priority activities of the Development Fund is to help underdeveloped areas and municipalities. We keep, when I say, I mean the Republic of Serbia, a record in Europe by the range of development and underdevelopment of municipalities, that's 1:15, area 1:7. In Europe, it's 1:3. It's 1:5 in our region. We're the record guys here. Why? Because there is no adequate financial policy towards undeveloped areas. Instead of talking today about measures and activities to bring out those who have sunk, and many have sunk, except for several regions, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis, which create 81% of GDP, what do others expect? Here's another piece of information. In 2000, Belgrade gave 28% of GDP, and today it gives 38. Vojvodina was given in 2000 by 30, today it gives 32%. Nis was giving 10, and today he's giving 11. I'm talking about 2008. What do others expect? When will they increase participation in GDP without adequate strategic policy? You didn't make a strategic privatisation plan, you don't have one. You don't have a strategic plan to develop an undeveloped area. What will the people expect? Nothing. To expect nothing but misery and whatnot.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38429	The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38430	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Serbia, the SRS often indicate that the state apparatus is too bulky, dysfunctional and wasteful. In order for individual parties to meet their needs, they invent new jobs. Their non-domestic behaviour leads to the creation of new working bodies, new institutions, later enlargements, etc. Costs are constantly increasing, large funds are being allocated for new salaries, for rooms, for operating costs without any need, and all of this is being paid by Serbian citizens. So today we also have this proposal on amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act, which primarily increases the number of members of the National Council. So far we've had 19, and now that number is increasing to 26, which is increasing the number of regional representatives. So far, it has been the case that seven regions have one representative each. We now get a new proposal that Vojvodina has three representatives, a region of Shumadija and western Serbia four, a region of southern and eastern Serbia three, and two representatives from the KIM region. The minister noted today that the regions are determined by the number of inhabitants, above all, not by the surface. Each region has between a million and 600 million and two million inhabitants, and then a question arises why a region has one representative, and some two, some three, some four. We are in a situation where some regions have as many as four times as others. Also, with regard to determining the minimum number of regional development agencies, it has been the case so far that we have seven regions and seven regional development agencies. Now some regions have much more. For example, the Vojvodina region has three, a region of Shumadia and western Serbia four, a region of southern and eastern Serbia three, and a region of KIM, as well as a Belgrade regional development agency. I ask the question, especially as far as Cosmet is concerned, we know that there are two geographical areas there, KiM and therefore the KIM region has a minimum of one regional development agency, and there are at least two of them due to the separation of geographical areas. The question is also asked what will happen in the coming period, as the minister stressed that cities that have regional development agencies will be able to develop rapidly through them, then each city will seek to get its regional development agency and then we will have in the future the creation of new agencies. I would point out that we will get nothing from the decentralisation process to these new decisions because decision-making, planning and even implementation of the regional development programme will continue to be dictated from the centre, because at the state level we have a national council, and a national agency that will continue to make decisions, so that nothing is new and nothing but perfided, pushed and masked centralism. The regions are actually going to be just another central government counter that's absolutely not going to change anything. I would also refer to the region's funding programme being implemented in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and Belgrade, always giving an opinion on the programme to both the AP Vojvodina and the city of Belgrade. I would also point out that this law states that the AP Vojvodina, as well as the city of Belgrade, also brings a regional development strategy for their territories through their authorities, so the question is why Belgrade and Vojvodina's special treatment of other regions, because this does not result in an evenness of development, but exclusively privileged territories, or regions, and this is not how economically-socially-equal regions can be achieved. To get as much uniform development as possible, to strengthen and implement decentralisation, first and foremost what needs to be done is to stop the migration of the rural population. The plan needs to be speeded up primarily by the development of the village, made possible in the country as best possible conditions of life. This means, above all, building the necessary infrastructure networks, health facilities, PTT, cultures, banks, various services, sports and recreation sites. Normally, all of this should be done with the protection of the environment, with the protection of cultural and historical monuments, as well as natural raritys. Also, it should be possible for a farmer to live and survive in the country from his work, the ransom prices of fruits, vegetables, wheat, milk, cattle are unsatisfactory, below each minimum, and simply by this proposal absolutely nothing will change. The other problem that prevents the development of the village is the white plague. A small number of children are born, and even fewer children remain in the country. The Serbian village is now between disappearance and survival. In a decade more than 700 villages will be left without residents. Every fourth village is unfortunately on the path of disappearance, and today in today's debate absolutely nobody mentioned. You mention underdeveloped areas, and nobody mentioned them, and you didn't mention how many villages were missing in Serbia. In more than 700 villages live less than 100 inhabitants, and as a rule young people do not live in them, so it is clear that these settlements will soon disappear completely. This young reproductive and workable population that has daily leave its hearths. The state absolutely does nothing to prevent this, to keep young people in the country, not to leave, to allow them normal living conditions, to encourage not only their staying but also to enable them to increase their family, to prevent the fall of birth, to allow for the best conditions for them and their children. By creating these regions, these problems will not and cannot be solved. The current picture of the village is more than gloomy. The wrong policy is being conducted. That's what needs to change. On the one hand, it is not invested in the development of the village, and on the other hand it is expected that the village provides enough food for itself and for the city population, and that this food should be both quality food and natural and cheap. Why aren't mini-clains, mini-fridges opening up in the villages? Why not move the food industry to the country? Why is it not possible to develop rural tourism, to have some benefits, to enable rural households to make as much easier as possible, better living conditions that would encourage them to stay on their property, not to destroy them by paying for 15 dinars, wheat 9 dinars, cherry, apples and other fruit for a few dinars, and to mention agricultural pension is just over 8,000 dinars. Is that an incentive for someone to stay and live and work in the country? A large number of rural households can live on tourism, but there is no one to guide them, no one to help them, no one to stimulate them. Natural beauty, rivers, mountains, hills, canyons are something that's completely untapped with us. Hunting tourism, fishing tourism is completely underdeveloped, and could attract a large number of hunters and fishermen from abroad who would leave significant financial resources with us every year. Undeveloped transit tourism, sports-recreative, excursion, health, camping, cultural, religious, all forms of tourism are completely, not entirely, but almost all are neglected. It is also worrying that in the first two months of this year, the number of tourists has dropped by 23%. Finally, this new proposal increases the number of members of the National Council. We've got a bulky and dysfunctional state apparatus anyway. This law already provides for the existence of both national councils and national agencies and regional development councils and regional development agencies, and we are now getting an increase in them. Expansion. This proposal certainly won't achieve a higher degree of decentralisation or a more even development of Serbia. We'll only get new jobs that will fill the parties in power, we'll get unnecessary expansion of bureaucracy, which only causes damage. Now is not the time to waste, but to save and rationalize the state. This proposal will certainly not achieve an accelerated development of lagging or underdeveloped or underdeveloped areas or villages. This can be done by the state with a responsible and serious policy, investment in underdeveloped areas, planning and development documents, and the state does not need any advice, no agencies, no regions, no regional centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38431	Mrs. Marina Toman. You've got 21 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38432	The most important reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation by Citizens in the Privatisation Procedure, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation and Establishment of the Stock Fund, in order to fulfil the promise of free share of actions by the citizens through it, as suggested by the Proposer. It is no concern for the citizens, but the same citizens will serve as an excuse or a more accurate cover – that actions of the most valuable state-owned companies are entrusted to ageing the Privatisation Agency, which has often been pushed on the edge of the existence by the Privatisation Agency, which was conducting the privatisation process very often by those same citizens. The Action Fund is shut down and a stock fund will be established, whose jobs will be carried out by the Privatisation Agency. The establishment of a stock fund shall result in an institution which has large assets, consisting of non-financial assets and large powers, i.e. institutions that are not liable or controlled. So, amendments and additions to the law are introduced by the stock fund, whose task is to issue and distribute actions to citizens. Citizens who have the right to free action will no longer receive shares in certain enterprises, but will receive actions from the stock fund, through which they will be able to exercise their rights. Does this mean that citizens are shareholders of this fund – no, that doesn't mean? The fund will take over the actions of the most valuable state-owned companies, then utility companies, including sports companies. The Fund will combine various incompatible actions and interests, with the government's ability to increase this property, or the government, if it decides to bring in actions and other public enterprises. The government can do that if it assesses that all rightholders of free action cannot settle from existing assets. So the government can do it, but the government doesn't have to do it. Then a just question arises – will the principle of equality be respected? The fair value of the fund's assets cannot be predetermined, as it is determined on the basis of market value, nominal value or accounting value, so it is not actually known – what will end up in the stock fund. Actions will be managed by the Privatisation Agency, as I said, which is constantly exposed to fierce criticism – about poorly implemented privatisation, with elements of crime and corruption. There is a danger that the assets of non-privatised enterprises will be misused, or manipulated. As it stands in the law – the Privatisation Agency will perform the tasks of the fund, on behalf of and on behalf of the fund. The Action Fund and the Privatisation Agency will be institutionally linked. Nevertheless, the idea is that the Fund controls the work of the Privatisation Agency – and the Agency, on the other hand, is conducting an internal audit of the fund. Who will control whom and how, if the circle is completely closed? Will control be adequate, or who will convince the public that it has been properly implemented, if so far no one has controlled the Agency's work, or if it was an untouchable institution, raised above the entire system? This cannot correct the fact that the government will once a year submit a report to the National Assembly on the operation of the fund, which is a very long period. The reasons for the adoption of the law also states the rationalisation of the business, which will be achieved. For this reason, we do not see why a new point is being introduced in the Agency’s means of funding the Agency’s work, i.e. that is to say – that this is also a commission from the sale of shares, i.e. a share in the ownership of the Agency, i.e. actions and shares, which form the property of the institution, which deals with the business of the stock fund? Furthermore, the level of commission is prescribed by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Regional Development. It is not specified in which way, or which criteria the minister will manage when determining the amount of commission. In public still, to remind you, there was no storm over the disputed regulation – which allows for the right conversion of land use, into property, and the compensation is such that, if the land is cheaper than the purchased enterprise, the owner of the company gets gratis. The Fund is managed by a council elected by the government for five years, with the possibility of re-election. The Council has unlimited powers. Thus, for example, the Council makes a decision on the trading of actions transferred to the Fund, outside the securities market of value, by stating in the amendment and addition of the Law on the Privatisation Agency – that the advice does so if it considers it to be the most favourable solution. While this is in amendment and supplementing the law on the right to free action has been left out. So, the advice will, according to personal intent, decide – whether to sell actions outside the market. This is not only contrary to the desire to further develop the market, but there is a real danger that actions are sold below the price. There's a corruption space opening up when they're being sold. In addition, this is contrary to the position of the Ministry of Economy, which recently appealed, or recommended that citizens not sell the free shares they receive beyond the stock market because they are thus achieved at a higher price market. Also, what does this have to do with currents in the modern economy if the securities market bypasses? Finally, to conclude, the Serbian Radical Party is not against free division of action, but is against such legal solutions that introduce a real danger of speeding up corruption in the privatisation process. In the end, there will be citizens and states. Minister, I want to ask you a question. You said that the prices of the stock will move around the world, that is, how they will grow, so will the value of our company. Then why are you selling Telekom now? To be clear, we are against the sale of Telekom, but since you are already trying to do so, why do you give up profitable companies for short-term goals?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38433	The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic. You've got 15 minutes left. That's for sure, you can come see. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38434	Ladies and gentlemen, today, in the context of a joint principled search, we are having a debate on four joint draft laws, of which the first three proposals have ties to each other, but this fourth law – the bill on muralology, does not really have any points of contact with the first three, so I would immediately ask Mr. Minister which motives were handled when this law was placed in the same box with previous laws? Regardless of the fact, we have submitted a total of 20 amendments to this bill, which we will try to defend on the day of the debate in particular, and now, since there is a relatively short period of time left to share with my esteemed colleague Krasic, I will try to explain in short lines the essence of this draft law on metrology. The area of mtrology was first regulated by the Law on Measurement Units and Criteria, which was adopted since 1994 and modified in two or three times, and was in force until 2005, when the Law on Metrology was adopted, which was then passed as a law of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, which, after the collapse of the common state, remained in force in the form of a Republic law and which apparently does not presently depict the true state of events in this very important area. By the way, the word metricology is a complex that leads to the origin of two Greek words – metros, meaning measurement and logo, science, so in general it would be a general science of measurement and measurement methods. Since then, this word has become destitute in almost all countries of the world and has become a synonym for a multidisciplinary area that has found application in almost all areas of modern life. The essence of mtrology was best explained by the famous Galileo four centuries ago, who gave that famous saying – to measure what is measurable and to make what is not yet measurable. Because measurements are needed everywhere, we know in technology, medicine, trade and in all other activities, and that is in fact the main objective of this bill, to convince the citizens of Serbia that all the measurements carried out in our country's territory are actually of general public interest to all Serbian citizens. In addition, the aim of this law should be to ensure in Serbia that the criteria are applied satisfactorily to a specific area of application, in legally prescribed units that are in line with the international SI system and with the errors of measurement that are within some pre-set limits. Because, as it is known, there is no measurement without error. In doing so, it is normally necessary to ensure uniformity of measurement, in order to combine the results of measurements, performed in different places and at various times. So this is all the purpose of this bill that we are discussing so briefly, and it was really necessary to have a debate in the context of or a special point or at least to find this law in a set with several related laws. Regardless of that fact, it is necessary to stress that for the first time the Assembly of the then-SFRJ passed the Law on 2 April 1976, which was the official international SI system of units and measures, and the application of this law has become mandatory since 1 January 1981 and this law is still in force and we are using it in this unchanged form. Otherwise, the measurement tasks are multiple. We can single them out in several characteristic groups. The first group would be measurements carried out for commercial purposes, meaning measuring spent electricity, water, gas and other energy sources. Another group would be measurements that serve to increase human and animal safety in medicine and related sciences. Then we have measurements to protect the environment and protection at work, say, measure radiation, noise levels, vibrations, etc., and then experimental measurements in various institutes and laboratories to verify some assumptions and ultimately measurements carried out in real time, which serve as further information to manage some further phenomena or processes in modern technology. According to the above-mentioned measurement tasks, and the legislator tried to convince us, first of all, the MPs, and then the citizens of Serbia, that this was of general public interest to all citizens of Serbia, only to point out that this time it seems to me that the legislator of the law was much more important to them than the mentors of the World Trade Organisation and the European Union, as well as the requirements contained in several documents translated into writing this law. It is precisely because of this literal translation into our language of certain specific words and terms from the mentioned documents in this bill that there are so many illogical and unreasonable provisions that we will try to remove through these 20 amendments that we have submitted and about which the SRS parliamentary group will make its views in the day of the debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38435	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Respecting a remark that hasn't been fully established, you've got ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38436	I don't want to repeat what we talked about this first law that's on the agenda of today's debate, I don't want to repeat what we said six months ago. However, it must be understood that Serbia still expresses these so-called centrifugal and centrifugal forces in political life and political organisation. It must be understood that this bill, when I say this, I mean that original text of six or seven months, really by one too broad interpretation, could possibly have some constitutional basis. Basically he doesn't have a constitutional basis in our constitution. Now let's take this discussion a little bit seriously, given that the issue of regionalisation is indeed a political issue, an impeccable political issue. Just to remind you, sometimes Serbia has 15 inter-municipal regional communities that were a quasi-sustaining category. To talk about regionalisation and talk about regional development as a matter of substance, and regionalisation as a form or shell falls into the political issue and therefore needs to be cautious. If someone thinks that today we are able to imitate what exists in the European Union, or what we need to do to meet certain conditions, as some say, to join the European Union, then I think we have made a mistake. A bill like this is wrong. I'll take some of that data that's used in Europe. The nomenclature of territorial units for statistical needs is something invented by the European Union and used for statistical purposes, and this has led to the division of Europe into administrative regions. You see for yourself, it starts with statistics, and it's already going to something that's an organization of the state, which is administrative regions. Now, if you take the existing situation in Europe, in these 27 Member States of the European Union, you don't have the same pattern, even when it comes to what's called Nuts One, Nuts Two, Nuts Three. You don't have the same criteria. Let me give you an example. For example, Romania -- it does not possess the level of the province and the region. To remind you, Bulgaria in the Constitution has a provision that prohibits the formation of autonomous provinces. Furthermore, the reason for this is a centralistic view of the country's regional arrangement similar to French, which was later decentralised, but is basically centralized. As a result, the first level is below the state district level, with a large number of districts, 41 districts exist in Romania. Furthermore, the level of the development region exists only on paper and was created to adapt the country Nuts system to a faster and more balanced economic development, i.e. in translation of easier access to access funds. The situation with Italy, with Spain and now some of the words of Great Britain, which are as regionalized, springs from the very constitution of these states, from the very constitution. Let us also remember that there are three federal states in the European Union – Belgium, Austria, Germany, where this criterion is not applied. What is behind this, since time is limited, is hiding that two diametrically opposite processes are being carried out in the European Union at the same time. One process is centralization. It is based on the fact that many powers of sovereign states, 27 European Union countries are being transferred to a headquarters in Brussels, but at the same time the process of decentralisation, where the eminently state jurisdiction of these countries is being transferred to something called autonomous regions. Doing it in Serbia, it's a complete failure. Absolute failure. The first creator, let's say, that modern regionalization was academic Jovicic. He gave it up before he died. He figured out where Serbia is and what processes are going on. Vojislav Kostunica until a few years ago was a regionalist, when he saw the consequences, he gave up. You cannot find an example that we can look up to in the EU. You absolutely can't. Of course, the EU has its problems, but I am not in charge of solving their problems. Those in this regional concept of regional development, dating back to 1957, began to develop for seventy-seven years, today came into the situation that there is one to seven differences, so London is said to be the richest. It has a per capita production that is 334% higher than the EU average. That's 49,000 per capita. The poorest region in the EU is part of Bulgaria, with a population of 6,500 euros per capita. I don't want to worry about their accounts. This is a political question. This goes beyond just a matter of statistics, insights. It should go with another concept of how to help, mitigate regional differences and strengthen economic power, social and other, all areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Something new, you had the opportunity to read in the newspaper a few days ago, that these new countries that joined the EU, above all Poland, and not to be a part of it, are also present in those countries that are founders of the EU, local communities, local self-government, increasingly rebelling because they are no longer able to finance some of the competences of local self-government, so that the current inflow does not allow the service of obligations that they have and require centralization of their own. Why are they looking for centralization? The only guarantee of human rights is the state. It cannot be a guarantee of human rights - county, municipality, city. That's what this is about. We're too small an economic space for that. First of all, I saw this law as one of the basics, where it is said that it is necessary based on what you have concluded in the agreement, ratified it in 2008 in the National Assembly, set out, routed it, but take a critical look at it. Not all that is offered is acceptable, with two completely diametric different forces present in the territory of the Republic of Serbia very much. You saw it in today's debate. It starts with statistics, so you see how far that debate goes. That debate goes to calculating who's what, who's what. Of course, we also have this problem of local escape and aga, I don't know who could have given so much authority to Bojan Pitiæ, to tell you the truth. Can anyone control him? Now put yourself in a situation where some quasi, Bojan Pajtic, appears in another territory, and starts implementing some of his policies. It's a very dangerous thing. This concept needs to be abandoned, a team before regionalisation is a major political issue. If we're talking about decentralisation, if we're talking about deetatisation, then regionalization is not the right way. Maybe the right path is a two-degree local self-government. This concept also deserves many criticisms. You could have consulted one of your colleagues on this subject. He hasn't been in the National Assembly for several days, and I remind you of these questions was doctored by Mile Ilic. Ask him to explain these things to you, and as a young lawyer he started working in an inter-municipal regional community in Nis, so he has practical experience. Anyone who takes this job seriously, a politician, a lawyer, etc., even an economist, will never accept something like this. Why? Because there are much greater damages than the benefits that can occur, much greater damage. Equal regional development, fostering underdeveloped areas, that is, a central topic that we have to take care of, but the path we're going is wrong. It will bring us much more damage than we can imagine. As far as these laws concerning privatisation are concerned, the very fact that changes and additions to the existing law are required is proof that they were wrong. Examine this organised crime, examine these state institutions that have made it possible, quote your data, to have the criminal group wash a billion euros on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It couldn't have been an autonomous act of several individuals. There must be an organized group behind it. Is that 400, 500 or 2,000 people, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-07-0.u38437	Will you bring the end, please? Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if anyone else has not used their right under Article 93. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right of Free Action and the Monetary Compensation of Citizens in the Privatisation Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation and the Proposal for a Law on Metrology. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, I welcome you and your associates, thank you for your cooperation. Dear People's MPs, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the electronic system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Todorovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Miroslav Markicevic first.
