ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37167	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question. What's this about? After NATO bombing, now on March 11th, the PUPS office will be addressed by Mrs Popovic Stan from the village of Ravanica near Kraljev, born in 1949 in Ravanica, married. She spoke after television announcements and announced that the health center in the King had been reported by persons who had been injured during NATO bombings. To remind MPs, she was on a bus full of passengers rocketed in the village of Vitanovac by NATO forces. The injured were many, including Mrs Popovic Stana. She addressed after these television announcements to the Royal Health Center and received a doctor’s opinion on the percentage of the damage to her health. He is leaving for the municipal commission, which was then the only one who had the right to make a decision on the cost of war damage, on a proposal from the government. In this case, 150 grand was assigned to her degree of disability. After the end of the administration repeatedly addressed the same office for war damage in the King, and so far no one has paid for it. With this in mind, I ask the question – will war damage be paid for damage to the physical integrity and health of citizens in NATO bombing, given that such a commission was established in the government in 2000, which collected data from commissions in municipalities? I am interested, so that we can answer Mrs. Stanj Popovic, whether or not the government will fill this part with citizens. Like I said, you've been waiting 11 years for that. Thank you very much. I'll add all the documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37168	Thank you. Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37169	I am not sure which address I should refer to on behalf of the "New Serbia" parliamentary group, whose MPs seem far from the attributes that someone has given them, "pre-empted", but are therefore very persistent in seeking the truth. I should ask a colleague who is currently in the role of president of Serbia, because he definitely has the right to know everything because life cannot wait, but for that I do not have formal business opportunities. They may have chosen others, and in other times, but Mr. Bora not only nominated but also demonstrated an extraordinary closeness to the cameras with Tianic when he came to RTS in time for an interview, accepting a throw in the general's arms. So Comrade Sasha achieved the continuity of the first man, from Mira to Bora. I could also ask the Minister of Health if he wasn't too occupied with these unnecessary vaccines and trying to become an academic in any part of the region, even if it was VANU. Why the Minister of Health? Because gambling is classified in the order of disease addiction, thus advertising, modeling and education of the young generation that gambling is the right way of life is a kind of incentive to a sick lifestyle. It is likely that the President of Parliament, who is an eminent psychiatrist, would agree with my finding, before she herself played a rather ungrateful role in negotiating with the fly killer during the summer period around these congregation transfers. The most appropriate person to ask her a question, i.e. to repeat the question of the deputy head of the "New Serbia" parliamentary group of Mr Markicevic, is the finance minister, but she is too busy with Harry Potter, and it is hard to have time to track Indiana Jones and his search for a lost suitcase of money from subscription and SMS messages, which were humiliated, saddened and robbed Serbian citizens sent Saleta Loli Tijanic. About the minister of ministers, who solves the financial crisis in Serbia's Davos, not in walking, but in skis, not to speak. Perhaps, as one of the citizens said, we should deprive the public service viewers by refusing their subscription debts from the Youth's actions. So what else am I going to do, rather than address the question as a tortured prime minister, who has the calmness of a generation of flowers children, even though his birthplace has turned into Venice. So, where's our money from Bing and RTS auction "Our car to our viewers", which was broadcast even four times a day at the Public Service? I recall that RTS was an institution in the service of public interest, so public service, not a public house, which implies that it was immoral, irresponsible, and legally irregular, and only encouraging citizens to gamble, i.e. to give false hope that big money or car will come easily. The worst part is that children were involved, often bringing their parents into an awkward situation when their phone bills arrived, which required them to give up many existential needs or even in debt. In the game for one car offers were between one and five thousand dinars, allowing as many as a thousand offers to be sent from one number. In this way, RTS encouraged citizens to spend as much as two average salaries, or 62,000 dinars, in just one day. The next question, which was also asked by the deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr Markicevic, who, meanwhile, was sued, and this is the first case that someone is saddened because he asked that the one who sued him be apologized to the citizens, is – why, despite the fact that in the Directorate of School and Education programme 250 people, there are no shows in their own production, but for huge money, they buy finished shows so-called. independent productions? Tijanic's lack of formal education would not be any greater by allowing these kids to learn more than he did. The man was definitely watching "Resistance," but he totally misread it. What I'm saying now is I'm entitled to because on TV for years I've been doing the Sunday show in the Educational and Educational Program Directorate, answering questions of children, teachers and parents, which Dr. Zarko Korać and I have been trying to, as psychologists and parents, sincerely advise and focus on what we consider to be the right values and goals of socialization. After that, I also led a television-psychological counseling session on the author's show "TV Appel", and then nearly five years of the author's show "The Assembly", dedicated to questions about the Church and liturgic life. Therefore, like most citizens, I felt that RTS should be a public service of Serbian citizens, which means that it is also a service of citizens who are Christian and who are Serbs. Turns out my smallness in a collision with such a giant whose lack of formal education couldn't limit the enormous need for power and power has no chance, so all these shows went into history, and the last project was taken down by Mr. Big without reason. It was a short-term personal victory, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37170	Would you please bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37171	I will. We'll bring this question to an end for today, but that question will continue. The "New Serbia" parliamentary group will insist that Mr. "the Beast", rather it could be said in this case, Mr. "the Beast", answers all the questions asked by Mr. Markicevic and I volunteer to be one of the indictees. I just love being sued by Tijanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37172	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37173	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will be nearly two years since the ruling majority in this House has been forced into force and banned from discussing and deciding on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. If it's any consolation, in July 2008, we had a debate in this house about an almost empty resolution on the elements of state policy towards KIM on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In September 2008, the government withdrew a resolution from the agenda because it did not have a majority of 126 MPs to vote on what it proposed. Afterwards, you gave us an extremely cowardly six-point agreement between Belgrade – Ban Ki Moon, presented it with a diplomatic victory and something to preserve KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. It was clear to all of us that the agreement would not be realised because Pristina did not accept it. The agreement was an introduction to the acceptance of the Eulex mission, although we warned you that it was devastating and that it would implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Unfortunately for us, KIM does it today. Eulex with Peter Feith at KIM implements Marty Ahtisaari's plan and create an independent state of Kosovo. After accepting the Eulex mission, you handed over the suit to the International Court of Justice in The Hague and sought the opinion of the Court and the legality of the self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo. The opinion is expected to be much, and what to expect when we know that the 15 judges leading the trial before the International Court in The Hague are from countries that have recognised the independence of KIM. And that the Court gives a positive opinion, what is its strength if it is advisory and not binding on anyone? In a pre-election campaign, the ZES coalition, headed by Republika Srpska and DS President Boris Tadic, promised Serbian citizens to join the EU and to preserve KIM in part of the Republic of Serbia. Today, some of your coalition partners publicly in this House give priority to the EU in relation to the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. We have almost daily listened to the spoken thought of both the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of Serbia and individual ministers in the RS government and MPs in this parliament that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo's independence. Now the EU is moving on to another field. For them, Kosovo's independence is an irrevocable act, no longer requires anyone in Serbia to recognise independent Kosovo, seek good neighbourly relations between the two countries and already propose some modes of co-operation with Pristina. After intense pressure on the part of us to give up 15% of our territory for Serbia's EU accession, I ask two questions to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic -- do you think that good neighbourly relations between the two countries mean the recognition of an independent Kosovo, and for what will you, Mr. President of the Republic and Mr. Prime Minister, define yourself, for Serbia's entry into the EU or for the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37174	National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the Department of Justice to provide us with information on whether Stanko Subotic Canet has been charged with abuse of his official position and that an arrest warrant has been issued on this basis? Given the fact that this does not exist absolutely in international law, the question is why it was done. If we know which company Stanko Subotić Cane worked at, there is, when the official position is misused, the verdict is very short and costs a lifetime, but I think there is something else behind this warrant, or for this type of crime. I think someone gave the order to do this in order to remove Stanko Subotic, who until then was a respected businessman in Serbia, from Serbia, and probably not meet some obligations. I also ask that MPs, and I would ask, if possible, by Monday, since the Defence and Security Committee is scheduled, to provide information on all the transformations of Novosti from 1990 to 2006. I think that then some things will be quite clear to the MPs, that in a very simple way they will see who the shadow employers are, and the contractors are changing. As time passes, performers change, but those who are in the shadows remain constantly. With all these transformations to deliver and decisions on the basis of which it was possible to carry out these transformations. What does this matter? To make Serbian citizens understand that Serbia was being robbed and who took part in it. What the SRS has been saying since the beginning, these robberies would not be without the consent and participation of the authorities. We'd finally have to clear that up, start clearing up, especially when we're looking at these new facts about "News", about "Luca Belgrade". This is where Milan Beko, Miodrag Miskovic, Stanko Subotić appear, accusing each other of doing business together, borrowing money, etc., is written a variety of denials, but in order to be clear, so that you can say in what you like - a transparent way, we finally determine who participated in the bar in this robbery when it comes to "News", that all this data is delivered, and then you will see the essence of things when it comes to "News" and when it comes to privatisation. Then you'll see how they've been doing and what all those agencies you've established are supposed to do to fight for legality, transparency, etc. You will see that individuals only changed positions, from the director's post to one board of directors, to another board of directors and moved to those who did services so they could rob Serbia. I'm asking another question. We're definitely looking for an answer to tell us who's behind three foreign companies that have 62.24% of the value of News. It's Trimax Investment, Ardos Holding and Karamat Holdings. Three companies, but you don't know who the owners are. Then how are you going to determine the origin of the money? What if you find Stanko Subotic Canet here, the Charic brothers, and someone covers them with a name and a last name? Or maybe they borrowed this money? How is it possible that you don't know who these companies are, who gave the money? Aman, people, there is no longer a possibility, after 9/11, that no financial transaction greater than 20,000 euros will pass in the world without the origin being determined. (President: Please bring the end. It's been five minutes. Please, just let me finish. Therefore, for these transactions purchased by Novosti, it must be determined where this money comes from and who owns these companies. I guess this isn't complicated and this answer could reach Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37176	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37177	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to ask two questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first question is that MPs get information on what conditions and how the state sold ownership in "the port of Belgrade" in 2005. Second question. Given that many citizens with KIM come with complaints that there have been huge abuses of funds that the state of Serbia referred to KIM during the period 2004-2007, that there have been cases that individuals have done all the work with the funds of the Republic of Serbia working on KIM, I expect the government to give us full information about it, because I think that the efforts of the state of Serbia to help the citizens of KIM are not seen among other things because several years there are very intransparent and under very vague circumstances spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37178	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Nikola Lazic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development, I have also called for the meetings to attend: Prof. Dr. Milos Nedeljković and Prof. Dr. Snezana Pajović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development; Nevenka Novaković, Radmila Skokić, Katarina Petrovic and Nada Mijatović, advisers at the Ministry of Science and Technology Development; Branka Totic, Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Mirela Boskovic, Assistant Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Scientific Research (specificities) before we move to the debate in particular, I would like to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee is under way and we will start working when it is over, and that is 30 minutes from now. Let me just open the 9th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Srboljub Zivanovic, Zoran Shami, Donka Banović, Goran Mihajlović, Miroslav Petkovic, Nikola Žutić, Nikola Savic, Marko Milenkovic and Aleksandar Martinovic, as well as amendments to the Committee on Science and Technological Development. You have received the Report of the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. In 30 minutes, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue the session in 15 minutes, at 11.30 p.m., with discussion in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37180	Dear People's MPs, the Legislative Committee has completed its work. We can keep going. We're moving on to the amendments. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who wants a word, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37181	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to replace the words "five years" with the words "three years". The reason is that the SRS considers the deadline to be more appropriate for the amendment solution. The government's view is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that the time of five years is more practical and that the process of development set by the government lasts for five years. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the development of the economy must go through academic production. These five or six points adopted by the Strategy, which are biomedicine, new materials, environmental protection and climate change, energy and energy efficiency, agriculture and food, information and communication, technology, improvement of current state decisions and affirmation of national identity, says that this period of five years cannot be accepted because certain changes in the sciences of the information system, environmental protection and new materials occur from day to day. I believe that the Ministry and the Government should accept my amendment even though you are here in the Science and Technology Development Strategy in Serbia foresaw a period from 2010 to 2015. That five-year-old period is short, and do you know why? Because science, the Academy, did not participate in the realization of some of the most difficult problems today in Serbia, which is the realization of criminal privatisation in Serbia. Because by criminal privatisation in Serbia, you've destroyed the economy, you've destroyed banking, you've destroyed the economy, and that's the most important thing in my proposal, that the five-year process is quite long. You said on the Committee on Science and Technological Development that this restriction is variable and that it's always variable. But if it's variable, what do you say you put five years here for? I think you should accept my three-year proposal. Because, Mr. Minister, I remember your discussions from the previous period, when you said you were looking forward to a global crisis because Serbia will be a country that will earn money in this global economic crisis. I ask you a question, to answer both me and a million unemployed citizens, how and how can we make money on this greatest disaster that has hit mankind, and that is the global economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask you to, when you're discussing the period until 2000, because it seems to me, for the last 10 years, whatever you're not doing, you usually go back to that period for the last 10 years, but I'm a man from the economy, I have to tell you that the economy of Serbia has been working until 2000, that these millions of unemployed have worked in that economy, but I wonder how today and where it should work these millions of unemployed. Before each election, you come with a bag of money, especially Mr Dinkic, where certain factories, giant companies provide the economic prosperity, as he said, and solve economic problems, offering them one period of pay without working in companies. This process lasts - 18, 15, 13 or 8 thousand and at the end of the zero. It happened with the chemical giant Zorka Shabac, the most profitable factory, which had heterogeneous production, which you destroyed. I believe that for all this time, these ten years of being your authority, you have not used the services of science, because surely no economist would allow you to do this criminally, as you have done. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, when he spoke about the Customs Act, discussed and spoke about Kruševec and the economy of Kruševec. As a businessman, for 20 years I've worked with this economy and I've seen that he doesn't even know about his city where he lives, how this economy works. Because one of the world's largest giants for the production of construction machines and process equipment is October 14th, who hired and who had his co-operatives, and today it's on the verge of collapse. What are you talking about? Are you talking about some kind of economic prosperity? You can't get anything out of the ashes if it's destroyed, if you've destroyed all those giants, if you've left people out of work, if you've left people without a future. What should we talk about today - the outflow or the retention of young talented personnel? Today is the biggest outflow of personnel. You can't say how many years from now your rule of young minds, talented, college professors, have left this country because there's no perspective, there's no planned production of young experts in Serbia, because the economy doesn't work, because education, institutes to connect with the Employment Service, as you now call them -- agencies, to have a planned production of experts that will start working tomorrow. A young man, up to 20 years old and a few years old, the other is supporting society or parents, but later, when he needs to support himself, he can't because he's out of work. Do you know how much a regular college student costs the state today? From 30 to 40,000 euros. I told you in the last statement that we gave the world 12 billion because we sent our most talented experts to the white world. But it was your flossula, because otherwise you couldn't rule those of you who produced unscient and talented experts in this country, but tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37182	Dear People's MPs, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the RIK on the election of the MP in order to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. You were also presented with a report by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, a report from the SRS polling list – Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Congratulations to the MP, and I invite her into the O.R. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and together Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37183	Thank you. This is an amendment to Article 3. Otherwise, Article 3 refers to Article 10 of the existing law, and there the legislator has made several interventions at individual points. We believe that one of these interventions is not good and we suggest that a solution be kept from the existing law. Now I'm going to say something about article 10 that you know what this is about. Article 10 refers to programmes of general interest for the Republic and within the meaning of this Act. Point 5 says it's a research programme at the Centre of Excellence. We don't think the Centre of Excellence is a good name for that center. Here you can see a literal translation from the English "Center of Excellence". We believe that it is not in the spirit of Serbian language and we suggest that this centre is still called the Center of Extraordinary Values. The report we received for this session said that the Assembly Committee on Science adopted all these amendments (there are many amendments where we correct what you propose), but that the government did not accept them, so I would ask the minister to explain it a little bit. So we think this intervention is bad. On the other hand, the second intervention that applies to this article is point 10, where you expand, and you say - the programme of encouraging and scholarshiping young people and gifted for scientific research, we believe that this change is good because you are introducing the word scholarship here, and in the current law there is only support. Of course, best support when it's through scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37184	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37185	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, yes, the Government's representative and the Science Committee has supported most of it, and we are prepared to accept that this termology is returning to its original state. The idea was to comply more with international terminology, but not at the cost of not being right in our Serbian language, so we accept that change. I would take the opportunity to thank all the MPs, especially the parent board, but generally all the MPs, and I can say that this debate has allowed us to accept a series of amendments. These are not only amendments to one party, they are amendments and DSS, ZES, SRS, LDP, so I really hope that in this debate and voting day we will be able to show together here, that the entire National Assembly is sending to those in our country who are dealing with science, technology, those who want the economy and knowledge to aphirm in our country a very nice message and that these laws, which are not at all some political option or anything other than the future of our country, will get very broad support. The fact is that the Government as a Proposer and I, as a representative of the Government here, adopted 16 amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Action, eight amendments to the SAN Law proposal, one amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Innovation Activity and 23 amendments to the draft law on geographical indications of origin. I hope that the National Assembly will see this activity and this dialogue as evidence that we want this debate to improve, on the one hand, and the text of these laws, but that, on the other hand, we provide as broad a consensus as possible on this issue. These laws, if adopted by the National Assembly, and with these amendments that we have adopted, will allow for the launch in mid-May of what we talked about during the search in the principle of these laws, which is that in good conditions a new call for projects is being issued, that this upcoming 2011-2015 cycle enables the continuation of what the previous governments have done, which is what provided for Serbia to be recognised in February this year by the relevant organisation that monitors the citation of our sciences as scientific world stars in the rise. It's just one criterion, it's just one moment, it's only one year, but it shows that a certain continuity in implementing this policy is only possible and only worth it. Wherever it was possible, we suggested that there was continuity, but also where it was observed in the last three years of the application of these laws, we also suggested certain changes and additions. Since our last debate here, we have also seen an arrangement with the European Investment Bank signed. Last week, an invitation was sent to all the universities of our country to propose infrastructure projects, as Serbia fought to make 25m euros within the pre-accession instrument of assistance, such as EU grants, provide money for the promotion and functioning of our universities. The idea of this programme is that through infrastructure investments, our graduates have better competitiveness in the labour market and I am convinced that not only in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, but also in Novi Pazar and other places, we provide a better situation for our universities. It's a movement that's moving today. I can say what the chairman of the parent committee just said, the strategy is proposed for five years, it's an international standard. On the other hand, as we see in these proposed amendments and amendments to the law, the National Council for Science and Technological Development will prepare a report each year, this time as its obligation - not a possibility, but a commitment - and this report must be prepared before budget development starts for next year, so as to consider how much has actually been done in the implementation of this strategy. She is living matter. She will continue to adapt. Things change very quickly, but I believe we will succeed in this way to improve the situation. The last example I would like in the overture of this discussion on amendments to say to the honourable MPs is that the announced solutions in these amendments and amendments to the laws that have not yet received confirmation in this esteemed home are already allowing us to move positively. The fact is that in the amendments and additions to the Law on Innovation Action, better and closer to defining the activities of the Innovation Action Fund, it has been taken as a good element, and we have received the support of our colleagues from the region, from BiH, Albania, Macedonia and Croatia above all, to form together with European partners a technology fund for the Western Balkans, so that our fund would be one of the participants in something that would be a European regional story that would provide far more significant resources than we could provide for our scientists, especially those who want to start high-tech companies. Because, as is said in the debate in principle, one of the key problems in our country, although it seems to concern a very small number of our citizens, is actually the most important enterprise we can have. As the chairman of the parent board said, one of the problems is that our current economic situation and structure are not favourable to exporting high-tech products. It's high time we started forming new technology companies, helping existing companies that have these technology projects get adequate funding. It's time to stop just trying to figure out the problems, it's time to start solving them. Nothing will be resolved overnight, but these amendments and additions to the law, including amendments accepted by the Proposer, and four amendments to the Science Committee are all, I think, the elements to run things a little faster and give a positive message, and I hope that we will get the support of a large number of parliamentary groups in this esteemed home, that things have gone well. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37186	National MP Pavel Marchok.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37187	The Honorable Chairman, however, I must say to an esteemed colleague that I have no objection to this proposal that "the Centre of Excellence" is renamed "the Centre of Extraordinary Values", but I still have to point out that your minister has proposed this law and the change of this name from "the Center of Extraordinary Values" to "the Centre of Excellence". So it's probably weak communication, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37188	40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37189	Thank you. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. First of all, as far as this set of amendments is concerned, there are 14 of them, if I'm not mistaken, who are turning the Center of Extraordinary Value, it's good that the government has accepted it. However, it is only a language formulation, and I think, for the sake of good Serbian language, that the term "extreme values" is more acceptable than "the center of excellence". As for who suggested what, etc., I remain convinced that the term "extreme values" is much more in the spirit of Serbian language than "experience", which is used for other things. But I didn't answer just for it. I'm afraid that, and I'm drawing attention to Mrs. Chairman, we've received a bit of an imprecise report from the board itself. According to the report, the government accepted what it had accepted. Now we've heard that she's accepted this set of amendments, it's okay, that the government refused what she refused, and that's okay. As far as the Committee's decision, sitting here and gentlemen and ladies from the Ministry and my colleagues from all the parliamentary groups on the Committee, the Committee has decided to support the amendments supported by the Government, it has decided to support the amendments that I have made, it seems to me, four, but, as far as the amendment has been rejected by the Committee, that decision has not been made. Of the nine members present, four voted in favour of adopting the government's proposal to reject the amendments, four voted against, and one was abstention. In other words, there is no position on amendments that the Government has not accepted. Let my colleagues correct me if this isn't true. At the expense of my time, I gave the chairman one piece of information. So, the fact that your shirt says the Committee didn't accept the amendment, that's not true. The Committee simply has no position on these amendments, which the Government has otherwise rejected. It's for the future. I think this is a correct interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37190	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37191	I'll use group time. This is practically my colleague Marcoku's answer, who said this was a law written by the DSS minister when he was a minister. We see this law for the first time, as far as the MPs are concerned. So, he's in the process now. And even when the minister was from the DSS, me and the MPs would show him that it was a literal translation, that it was not a good name and that it should be called "the center of exceptional values". I was also an MP when he was a minister, and I didn't participate in writing that draft, and he didn't even get to the Assembly. Whoever the minister was is now Mr. Djelic, so from whatever party, we would point to that. I also have a duty to point out that because I'm a professor of English. I think this second formula is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37192	One minute was used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger, Pavel Marchok, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37193	I'll use the MP's time. I just said that I agree with you, that the MEP group agrees to be renamed "the center of exceptional values", and the other thing I wanted to say is that Mr. Shami is right because there were four votes for, four against and one abstention on the board. So, the Committee on these rejected amendments has no position.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37194	30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37195	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, we have adopted this Article 3, that "the Centre of Excellence" is a "center of exceptional value", mostly because of language form. The government has explained that it is reportedly due to English translation. I believe that those of us who use one of the oldest spellings, the Wolf's alphabet and the Wolf's spelling, we should still use "the center of exceptional value" in this function, as the other MPs have said. I don't know why, because of our entry into the EU, we want to use certain words that are not close to us, but I don't think we should do it in the future, because you can see that even in Croatian, or Tudjman's language, words that even they cannot understand themselves are used, and I think that "the centre of exceptional value" is more adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37196	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37197	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am absolutely convinced that Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic is an expert on Serbian language, just as he is an expert on the cruise economy, which he says failed the moment he started working with her. I don't think it's any problem for him to stay the way it's written in the law and there's no need for us to continue wasting time in unnecessary discussions on this amendment, but it would be good to move on to another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37198	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37199	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been talking about the previous amendment, number two, and I don't know why Mr. MP from the DS was given the floor. In my presentation on this amendment, I was talking about applying science to the economy and economy. I have elaborated and talked about the state of the economy, which is important in Serbia. I took an example of the cruise industry, of the metal industry, because I'm a technical face, a man from the economy who worked with that economy for 20 and a few years. I do not believe that Mr Milivojevic, who said to himself that the agricultural expert, had the opportunity even to enter the circle of the factory "October 14th", let alone to elaborate or enter the process of functioning the economy and economy on October 14th. One of the world's gigans, a company not only known in the old Yugoslavia, Serbia, Europe, but worldwide, is the factory "14 October", which produced, I believe Milivojevic and does not know what kind of production. It's a process equipment related to mining production, and today that production is so destroyed. And don't, please, talk about some kind of success of the democratic government in Krusevec or democratic authority throughout Serbia. It's seen through millions of unemployed, it's seen through millions of hungry, those that are social cases. It is, in fact, the success of the Democratic Party. It's the success of DOS, which has ruled over these ten years. Please stop once, turn around and look. You can't buy everything in front of one liter of oil and one kilo of sugar. You speak of the national standard of Serbian citizens today. That bag is talking about success. The bag says Serbian citizens live. So you buy the hungry before the elections, promise them well-being, but you certainly know you won't be able to do it for long. What you get is success in certain municipalities, so people turn because they know that if they vote for any other option, they won't be able to get what they get. But when the election comes, then you'll see where you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37200	MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Otherwise, Mr. MP, MPs of the Democratic Party have the right under this Rules of Procedure, as well as all other MPs, to use the time of the parliamentary group, and that is exactly what they have done. So they don't have any benefits. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37201	I've just used, Madam President, the time of the parliamentary group to explain the amendment, and now I'm going to use the right to reply because I'm directly called by the gentleman...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37202	You didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37203	Then I'll use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37205	So, I was just talking about the amendment and the reasons why this amendment should be accepted, and I don't need to explain it further. When we talk about the progress of the town of Kruševec, when we talk about the factory "October 14th", there's a lot to say about the factory. As a Krushevian, I know very well where the factory is. When you start from Kruševac to the village of Jasik, the industrial complex "October 14th" is on the right. I often go to that factory, and I leave with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just recently, we were about to try to settle the debts of the October 14th factory, which occurred at a time when the party of Srboljub Zivanovic led this country. Kruševac doesn't have a million inhabitants, so he has a million unemployed. I know Tarabic's prophecy says Kruševac will be the centre of Serbia and I am glad that Mr. Zivanovic believes that. I'm sure Kruševac won't have a million unemployed even when he has ten million people, but I support Mr. Zivanovic's idea of becoming a million-dollar town. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37206	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37207	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago, we discussed in principle a set of laws relating to scientific research, innovation and SANU. The SRS parliamentary group has expressed its principles, which we will today try to concreteise with the amendments. As you will see, we have submitted a relatively large number of amendments, but the government, in good old practice, has rejected these amendments, and we will try to explain why we believe they should have been accepted. The first amendment I submitted was to Article 3, paragraphs 5 and 6. It refers to the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development. According to the old version of the law, this council determined what a programme of special interest for the Republic of Serbia was, and the minister then verified it. In the new version, it is proposed that the minister decide practically on his own what these programmes are, with a previous opinion from the council. The amendments are made to fix something, but it's obvious here that the new version of the law is much worse than the old one. We feel that nothing is binding on the minister, but that it is much better to keep it the way it was in the original version. This only gives the minister his free hands for spending money on scientific research. It's probably about those 200m euros that arrived in Serbia, that loan that needs to be spent somewhere now. It is certain that the minister and the ministry want to do it themselves, not with the opinion of the National Council, which should certainly remain as defined in the previous version of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37208	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37209	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Right away, Madam Chairman, everything over two minutes will be the time of the authorised representative. In fact, the amendment is very simple – we ask that Article 5 be deleted. I must admit that I rarely write amendments to which some member of the law is deleted, but I share the confidence that my colleague had just said, that in the current law the text of an appropriate member of the old law was better formulated than proposed. In fact, in the text that we have received Article 5 of the amendment and the addition deals with actually Article 13 of the existing law, where in a different way we are talking about how the National Council is being formed. We are deeply convinced that the formulation of Article 13 of the existing law is better and for this reason we have proposed this amendment. Let me add something else to this in general. Namely, this is not the only member we asked to delete, or return to the previous text of the law. I think the existing law is decent, I'm not saying that laws can't always be fixed, there's always something smarter to write, but I just don't like the whole idea that's going through these changes and the additions of the law, and I don't think it's good. Generally, the minister's influence, i.e. the ministry, is increasing. This, in the end, has nothing to do with the current minister or the current composition of the Ministry. There'll be another tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, there'll be a third. Simply, we think that scientific institutes and at all institutions dealing in any way with science should be given the proper freedom of action and not be so dependent on the current government. On the other hand, I think that these proposed changes are diminishing the national council's powers (it will be seen through some further points of these changes), and what's not good and it comes down, I have to admit, to something that I'm not so sure is supposed to exist at all. So, the DSS has fundamental objections to this law. Now we've moved from the field of some language formulations, which, of course, were necessary to correct, but are not crucial, and I'm afraid that a large number of key amendments submitted by the DSS were not accepted by the government. I have to say, that seems very bad to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37210	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37211	As for the Council, this is one of those provisions that must ensure the transition from rhetoric to action. For decades, there's been talk of a lack of connection between science and economy. That's what the story was about this morning. It is very difficult to understand that we are constantly talking about the need to better connect science and economy, and that in the Council for the Development of Science and Technology, as has been the case so far, the economy has only one representative of 15 members of the council. The only thing that's proposed here is, if we're talking about a relationship between science and economy, that it's more visible and more realistic in the council itself. It's about the Council's own composition. Of course, those provisions are preserved, which are expected to be representative, i.e. to ensure that one discipline, not the other, is not presented in the very beginning, so that the Council is careful to be representative of science itself. Things don't just have to be talked about, but sometimes they have to be done. If we are already talking about the need for our most talented to remain in the country, it is certainly good to present not only the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, but also the Council of Foreign Investors, to talk directly to them about the possibility of forming the development centres of these companies in our country, to find common language, not to have these same firms that are not consulted enough so far, which are not being discussed, not negotiated, taken away by our best experts one by one. That's actually the goal. It is not the goal of reducing the participation of science, but of establishing to a much greater extent the dialogue that has been discussed, and now it is time for that council to be provided. As for the role of the Council, these proposals in terms of ingenuity are in fact in many ways the recognition of what was the reality of the former Council’s function and what can be done when a member of such a council. All members of the Council will continue to have their professional activities continued. That's normal. They can devote time to him by continuing to be actively engaged in permanent professional engagements. It was not possible to expect any such advice to make decisions that must be sanctioned by one democratic support, which is the emulation of this assembly through the government. It seems to me that this advice, and we did it through a discussion with the current council, we factored in what is really possible when a member of such a body is. And frankly, it seems to me that in recent years certain bodies have been formed that have been given too much authority against what is realistic in terms of time and engagement. And it's not good for us to have advice from one side that has departmental authority and that the whole responsibility continues and how to be at the ministries themselves. Ingerence needs to monitor responsibility. Responsibilities must be followed by intelligence. Every time there's a discrepancy between responsibility and ingenuity, there's a problem. In no way was the Council's influence diminished. We're going back to the original sense of word advice. The council is here to advise. The administrative authorities are here to manage. Every time those categories get mixed up, there's a problem. The Council, if we look at its composition and what is proposed in these amendments and additions to the law on its competences, will be a top body that will inform our entire nation about the achievements and also on the problems of implementing the National Science and Technological Development Strategy. They will give opinions on absolutely all the key acts that the ministry intends to adopt, i.e. Government. In the Council, of course, given who the promoters are, they will find extremely esteemed persons, people of integrity, with whom no one will be able to manipulate, as well as current members of the Council, who have done the job well, could not manipulate. And in this sense we expect from one such advice very active participation in accordance with what people who engage in this way can do and that there is no such discomfort between great ingenuities and the inability to execute them, on the one hand, and on the other hand huge responsibilities without ingenuity. In that sense, it seems to me that this is a much more honest way to openly formulate what a government council like this can and must do. The Council will also have a great impact, but we also expect it to, in accordance with national priorities, ensure that the dialogue between science and economy takes place where it belongs, and that is, above all, in that council. Also, no one thinks that the state is now trying to politicise science. Look at the previous year and a half of this government, this ministry. We are no director, as our people would say, to be replaced. There have been some changes where they naturally occurred. It's the same case on boards. And in the previous public debate, when this law was passed, which is now being amended, and only the ministry suggested that the boards of directors be according to the composition proposed here. It was a proposal from the ministry itself at the time. I don't know why it decided to go into an unnatural stalemate position, that in the very structure of the board of directors it somehow formed some illusion that on these boards should come, because we're half-half, to a discussion and some measuring force that has no place between those appointed by the Government, i.e.. the state, and those who come from the ranks of employees. It will be seen in the very application that nothing drastic is going to happen, but that we're doing a little bit of reconciling and going back, I think, to something that's common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37212	The People's Messenger Zoran Mašić has the word, followed by MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37213	I will use the time of the parliamentary group, given that for technical reasons we are too late to submit our amendments in time. Allow me, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to engage in this debate on this amendment. I think Mr. Shami's proposal is a better solution than the one proposed in the amendments to this law. Just now, I have an objection to the number of members that the National Council should give to the economy, and with a primary explanation that through these members, more effective application and operationalisation of the results of scientific research in terms of inclusion in the very process of economy and development of economy. Minister, last time you said that the total number of scientific research results achieved in terms of certain patents and something that is applicable in the economy is quite small, moving around about a dozen. I didn't remember whether yearly or through a particular cycle of research that lasted from three to five years, but it was, in any case, a small number to eventually through this way the National Council I included in the sense of applying these results to the economy. Because if this solution remains, of the 17 members of the National Council, five members will be unskilled, and I don't know how you will, which system and what technology to ensure that all six areas of science are represented if three representatives of research institutions, so institutes, and three representatives of the university, are present in the National Council for a new solution. You must then target those six people from the institute and college to cover these six scientific areas that are defined as crucial in the development of scientific research. I don't think it's a good solution, and I think it's a very good explanation that this proposal will not lead to politicisation. You suggest three representatives be from the Chamber of Commerce. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is held by party people, they are elected by party line and, if the staffing and proposing to the National Council is from that level, they will again be absolutely seen as party belongings to those people, not their contribution to economic development. Because I don't know what criteria you're going to use through this law, which you don't define, determine who a prominent businessman is and who in this sense will represent an economy in the National Science Council. If only you'd listed two or three elements here, which must be binding on the promoter, and I'd believe it. As you suggested, it is absolutely possible for someone to be a representative of the economy through the Chamber of Commerce or through representatives of foreign investors. Perhaps once again it is an opportunity to consider and yet accept Professor Shami's proposal to remain an old solution, when there were no other proposals to reduce the number of representatives of the economy in this National Council for Scientific Research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37214	Four minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37215	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I can agree with Mr. Djelic that we should move on with the parole. But here's the thing. You are proposing, as representatives of the economy, three members who will be elected by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and two members of the order of foreign investors. As far as the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is concerned, I'm very sorry, it shouldn't be like that, but it should be transformed before. The Serbian Chamber of Commerce as it is today, still as it was yesterday and the day before and ten or fifteen or thirty years ago, is essentially simply an extended arm of power. On the other hand, foreign investors, Mr. Djelic, are not organised, as far as I know, into some special formal organisation, so they too, I fear, will be elected as an extended arm of government. Therefore, the change is like this for you – of the 17 members, five members will determine the current power, which I don't think is good, no matter who is in power, and 12 will come from the ranks of scientific research institutes. So my finding that this is about putting science under direct control of the current government, I'm afraid, unfortunately, it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37216	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the authorised representative has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37217	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 6 - to delete. Reason: The SRS considers that the solution in the existing law is better and that the powers of the National Council for Science and Technological Development should not be reduced. I'd like to ask the minister, I've already asked the question several times, to answer how we need to use the world's economic crisis to make us feel better and make more money. Please, Minister, at the end of my discussion, answer this question for me. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard Mr. Shami's statement on the National Council. I'll just relate to his discussion. You said there would be no politicisation in the National Council. Gentlemen, that's what I've been through. Look, you were the finance minister, as well as the way science funding was set aside. Ten euros per capita of Serbia is a separation for science. And look at the other countries, in an environment or developed country, ranging from 150 to 300 euros. You have devalued the work of scientific experts. And when something positive happens, when it comes to the success of our scientists, ladies and gentlemen, you can get a lot of sense of their success and bring them promotionally to these great events and gatherings of yours, to portray them as people who are faithful to your political ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, what you want to see happen today in Serbia, which is, to call it, the scientific rebirth of Serbia, you won't be able to do it. Because, you know, what goes down needs time to get up. And these national councils, which you've politicized, now you want to put under your hat. I understand that the Ministry should participate, but not that it has so much authority over the old Law on Scientific Action, the one of the ingenuity that the National Council had. I consider this proposed law or, to call it, by adding the previous law, you have made no contribution. Probably my political option and I would have accepted this member if you'd contributed to some improvement in the science system. No, you just want to sort of put that institution under your authority. Why don't you ask yourself, and if you look at today's presence between certain scientific activities and between social sciences and technological sciences, what is this disparity or what is this relationship? You'll see, defeating. Today, in social, political studies, you have an overbooked number of students, and in technical schools you don't have them. For what? Because you've destroyed the economy and we've put everything in the system of politicization and they've realized that only by practicing social sciences will they come to the realization of their life's path. Like you said, little Tesla. You probably don't take the main street to see the one playing the saxophone. It's a young man who got an American scholarship, but he needs money to move on. There he is with the box, playing and asking passersby to throw him in. He can't come to use all those benefits because he's dealing with it, honestly and honestly, and he doesn't have a dad or a tycoon or a big businessman or any successful politician in your power so that kids can study outside of this country. That's the problem. See if any son of any politicians, businessmen, is involved in science. No, they pay who deals, same as in the West. If you look at it, today in the U.S., only college graduates get jobs, and those with lower professional training can't find employment. That's the process we must have forgotten. We forgot certain human values, that he could sometimes be smart and he who kept sheep in the mountains but had no opportunity to continue schooling, not just the one who had who and how to fund him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37218	Four minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37219	Thank you, Madam Chairman. If there were no confusion, if I were to remind the honourable MPs, the National Council has in this proposed law extremely important, I would say key ingenuities, which provide what is necessary for our science, which is that there is no politicisation, that there is no impact of certain non-science circles on what will be the functioning of this key segment of our society. For example, under this law, the National Council will have the authority to adopt sublegal acts, and this act on the evaluation of scientific research work and the process of accreditation of institutes, integrated universities, universities and centres of exceptional values. In other words, the Council will bring an act, not the Ministry, to ensure that what is most important is valued, which is the scientific work of our scientific workers. It will not be brought by the minister, it will not be brought by the government, it is the key ingenuity of the National Council. Secondly, it will also adopt an act on criteria and criteria for the allocation, validation and withdrawal of the centre of exceptional values and other institutions. In other words, if the Council adopts a key act on how it is valued and by what criteria what is the essential basis for progress within our science, at the level of institutions it will also have its own authority over these decisions, about the possibility of a particular institution being accredited or not. If we look at the status of this council, it is proposed that the Council continue to do so in key decisions, that there are several representatives of the economy, so that the dialogue that needs to be established between science and economy is possible and that at the same time has a more focused role and that members of the Council can do something while at the same time having professional activities that occupy their full time in their current function. I don't want, on behalf of the Government, to create some illusion, because it's not essentially true, to reduce the guidance of this council on those key ingenuities that it has on the evaluation of scientific work and about granting work permits for those institutions that are to appear in the scientific traffic of our country. And that's something to go on. The Council will give an opinion on a strategy proposed by the government and the ministry, and this will be an opinion written, and each year the Council will formally deliver documents to the government. Our public will be informed about how the Strategy is being implemented and whether the government should bring forward some corrective actions. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37220	The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37221	I'd like to join this criticism. There's a real impression that the National Council is kind of too dependent on the Ministry and that it doesn't have that role it's supposed to play. For example, in many members of the previous law there were "on a proposal from the National Council", and now an opinion is being obtained and then the minister decides. My impression is that the National Council, which should be a top institution, which would have to have a rank as the High Council of the Judiciary, is turning into some kind of debate circle. It is that he, as the minister said, delivers the criteria of scientific research, but somehow a tendency is shown, not only in this law, but also when we discussed other laws, in health care, in insemination, everywhere the last word is given to the minister, that he decides. This trend is also seen in this law on scientific research, that increasing powers are given to the state, rather than the National Council having a major role. Now I'm going to illustrate. You can take a look at any member of this law, and you can look at the one we are now discussing, Article 6, where it is shown – gives a preliminary opinion, and before that – on the proposal. This gives the impression that every time the minister gets that opinion, he doesn't have to consider it. So it's not on a proposal, it's on a prepared opinion. He has obtained the Council's opinion, and what a decision it will be, will be a decision by the minister. Here, let's say we take Article 28. The words "bring the National Council at the proposal of the parent scientific committees" are replaced by the words "bringing the minister with the previous opinion of the National Council". That's one example. Now I'm going to give you another example. In previous Article 3, which you have been through, just to show how it is systematically going, it is said: "Programmes of general interest, except for the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts Program and the Serbian Scientific Research Program, brings the minister responsible for scientific research (hereinafter referred to as Minister), with the opinion of the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, which is news in relation to the existing provisions of Article 10. The law when programs of general interest brought by the minister on a proposal from the National Council... '"and here you go to the prepared opinion. Wherever I look, I can see that we now have an opinion here instead of a proposal and that it brings a minister. And there have been criticisms in the public that this law has been passed in a hurry, that there is a sense of centralisation and politicisation, that where these certain parent scientific committees were able to make proposals, no, no, they are no longer giving, but giving the minister. In addition, I don't know why the general social interest or national interest (or what the formulation is, doesn't matter) is exempt from the Academy of Science and the Mother of Serbs. So they're such institutions and there's no getting any opinions, they're out of this system. We saw the interview that Cedomir Popov gave the news the other day. What this man has said is such nationalist fundamentalism that I have no words. These institutions that have been criticised for contributing to war, spreading nationalism, hatred, etc. in the past. And that they are fundamentalistic in this regard, they are not subject to this minister's control, they can continue to force their policy, to make publications, and to continue to deal with politics as they have done so far, and all the other projects, where I have been, the Institute of Philosophy and Social Theory, where we have relatively formed projects ourselves, we have to be under direct control of the minister, while these two institutions are finely exempt. So anywhere I look, and anywhere I read a text about it, there's the same criticism everywhere, very similar to what Mr. Shami did. When it comes to the composition of the Scientific Council, it really does not show the coherence of the work of the body. First of all, I think the number of businessmen is too large. Why did such businessmen appear on this scientific council? I agree that in some technological sciences, economic sciences, even sociology and social sciences that there's some kind of connection between economy and science, that's certainly very good, but why the Chamber of Commerce? Who are these people from the Chamber of Commerce who are supposed to be sitting on the Scientific Council? I don't see them. Would it be some science doctors who found themselves there, who would accidentally join together? Then you have this icebana -- it's supposed to be a diaspora in the National Council. But they didn't agree anywhere, that's true. Says one from the diaspora. One agronomist from Canada, for example, will be chosen by you, and what about some physicist, such as Dr. Maglic of Princeton University? It's all diaspora. So the way it's chosen, the way and which area it's going to enter, the rest is completely undefined. And as I can see, it doesn't matter, because the National Council didn't get the role I think it should get, but also the Academy of Science and the Mother of Serbs and these other or independent ones or they fell under the authority of the minister. I don't think this is good, and it's a general tendency in all the laws we're making. And here we have too many politics, which shouldn't be when it comes to scientific research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37222	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37223	I think we should look at the facts, Mrs. Pesic. The facts are the following, honourable Members of the people. This law was passed in 2005. In five years of this national council, and to him, and I want to say right away, there are our prominent experts, no strategy, no proposal for a programme of general interest, no funding act, no criteria for forming parent committees. The National Council didn't do any of that. Is it the people who are on that council? Absolutely not, but it has been seen for five years that this law must essentially harmonize the role of such advice with what should be, as is the case everywhere in the world, the role of a council where there are people who have constant activity in the scientific community, i.e.. in the economy, available time, and what must be common sense, and that is responsibility and ingenuity. I am pleased that Mrs Pesic reminded us that for the first time we have a proposal to find one of our diaspora scientists in this national council. That wasn't the case before. Of course we'll try to be one of the great integritys. It's not possible that one person is necessarily all discipline, but it's not even an idea. And I guess it's good that we have inside the Council what we're always talking about, and so little has been done, and that's the dialogue between economy and science, and that's to bring our queen together with our scientific diaspora a lot more. This is just harmonizing with what's reality and what's possibility. The previous law has made too much of what a counsel can do with such engagement. It's just a reality. We didn't ideologically approach this, we just realized the fact, what is possible to do to an institution of this type and something that is administrative. So there are no criticisms about taking away significant intelligence from the National Council. He's not being taken away from anything he's managed to do in five years. You don't need to speak theoretically, you need to see what's really going on in life and you need to have institutions that are able to complete those tasks they've given them. By the way, it certainly isn't the same Council or that the Supreme Court is the Supreme Court of Justice, because this isn't about two branches of government, it's about executive power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37224	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37225	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, Mr. Secretary's logic is interesting. Since the Council has not worked properly for the past five years, then the future role of the Council should be taken over by the minister. Mrs. Pesic and I are politically likely to differ greatly, but we are identically thinking about this, for the simple reason that it is quite clear that these amendments to the laws of the Minister and the Ministry are given great powers. Simply, you can abolish all scientific institutes and the National Council, so let the minister himself do science. That's one thing. Secondly, on the subject of Mr. Petkovic's earlier amendment, it is completely unclear to me why you did not accept him, because he is, as I say, trivial. The amendment says the words "and the committee of the National Assembly" are added after the word "Government". It's a report from the National Council. I don't see any reason for the National Council, except the Government, not to report to the National Assembly's committee. The Committees of the National Assembly are also reporting to the BIA and I don't know who they are, the National Education Council reports to the Education Committee. I don't see why the National Council wouldn't file a report to the relevant Science Committee. As for the amendment I submitted to Article 6, that is exactly what Mrs Pesic quoted earlier. He says the National Council, instead of proposing to the minister, gives a preliminary opinion. Do you understand the difference in weight between the previous opinion and the proposal? When you suggest something, that someone can accept it, they can say no, but they have to explain why it's wrong, and this is the previous opinion that's the way it is, I can give you a preliminary opinion in the hallway, so what? It's the next proof of what these laws really mean. They mean total politicization of science and organized science, which I guess nobody's after. There'll be another government tomorrow, there'll be other parties, maybe there'll be my party. I would also not give my party such guidance from such a significant area as science. I'm afraid this is a lot of talking to the deaf. I must admit that I do not see, regardless of all political differences between political parties, whether in power or in opposition, that science is an area where we can have different interests, like political parties or as individuals. But you realize that what you're proposing is something that reminds me very much, that's where a famous law on education was passed in the '90s, when then the minister of education chose the deans of college and chose it all alive. You're looking for this intelligence now for the Minister of Science. Yes, Mr. Djelic, unfortunately, yes. I told your colleague Dragutinovic the other day, perhaps your intentions are good, but "the road to hell is paved with good intentions," according to Dante Aligieri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37226	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Marchok Pavel.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37227	I've applied for the previous amendment. Given that amendments by MPs have been accepted to replace the words "the centre of excellence" with the words "the centre of exceptional values", it is necessary to implement the proposed amendment throughout the text of the bill. Another amendment has been accepted and there are 23 amendments that have been given the same explanation, with the government likely to accept the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37228	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37229	Just to confirm they've been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37230	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37231	Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, I have proposed, by this amendment, that I delete Article 7, with the reason that the solution in the existing law is better and that the term "center of exceptional values" is more understandable and closer to the spirit of Serbian language than the concept of "center of excellence", which leads to dangerous English-language English-language English translation "excellent". On the other hand, the word "excellent" is closer to the western version of the Serbian language, so-called. Croatian, because with today's Croats, the old Serbian word "excellent". It was pointed out in the government's explanation that the amendment is not accepted because it is Article 7. The proposal for a law in a more precise way arranged by scientific research organisations to apply for accreditation. Mr Minister, is it not specific in Article 30 of the basic law on scientific research work that can carry out scientific research work, so it is stated that scientific research organisations are institutes, higher education institutions and centres of exceptional value, and in paragraph 2, the accreditation process is said to be subject to all scientific research organisations, in accordance with this law? On the other hand, according to the amendments to the bill, a network of scientific research organisations is expanding. In addition to the institute, the university, integrated universities, centres of excellence and scientific research organisations in the defence area and the Serbian Army are now mentioned. The papers in the bill are military institutes. I have nothing against scientific activity in military institutes, however, this proposal creates additional confusion among scientific institutions, since for military institutes as institutes of the Serbian Academy of Science, the same conditions are not applicable to other institutes, such as the number of scientific associates, advisers needed to normally carry out their work. However, by expanding the network of institutions that will be able to obtain accreditation, the scientific blade is being melted, i.e. the scientific level will be reduced, and there will be more and more politicisation of science, control of science, especially in the field of humanistic sciences. There will be, of course, the hyperproduction of science doctors, and the number of real scientists will be reduced. In a conversation with colleagues from various institutes, a variety of political commitment, I have seen anxiety, anxiety and discomfort over the adoption of such a rash bill. Gentlemen, Ministers, I wonder what are the reasons for this inappropriate speed of passing a law that is not cosmetic at all, but by many provisions is essential and unfavourable for the maintenance and development of a true, fundamental, exact science, and which is expensive for the state, because by establishing new scientific institutions, it will burden the budget. In my opinion, there are two important reasons for this haste. The first is the signing of the already mentioned SANU agreement, on the granting of a 200m-euro science loan. For this reason, this exceptional urgency for the adoption of this law is in order to bring it into line with the European scientific dictatorship. When it comes to finance, Mr. Minister, my younger colleagues are interested in whether some of these funds will go for housing for scientists. In the Institute's towers, it is said that one of the reasons for the urgency of adopting the law of ministers is a dispute with the National Science Council, since, according to my knowledge, there are certain thorns between the Minister and individual members of the National Council, which will lose their former importance by these new provisions of amendments and addition of the law. My first impression after reading this law is that it will weaken the autonomy of the institute in relation to ministerial powers. Many decisions will be ruled by the Ministry by overvote, e.g. in the selection of the Institute's Management Boards, as many of the Ministry's candidates will prevail over the number of candidates from the Institute. I must point out that the law is quite inaccurate and legally inconsistencies, because of the conflict between the positions already mentioned institutes, military and SANU and other institutes, e.g. in the case of a provision on the number of associates prescribed by this law for ordinary institutes and which applies to the number of associates of the institute. So, two laws are in legal collegiation. The proposal for a law on science suggests for institutions a number of co-workers, I think ten, while the Academy Institute is sufficient only six researchers in working relationships, of which at least three researchers are in scientific or teaching titles. This is Article 40. It's the SAN bill. A particular disturbance among scientists is causing a member who prescribes the establishment of the National Institute and particularly a provision that the future institute should have 100 doctors of science. Does such a provision of the law result in the abolition of the Institute of Social Sciences? When the government makes a decision on the establishment of a new 100-doctor mammoth institute and who knows how many scientific associates and employees, that means that all smaller institutes will be shut down, and the new national one will not be able to be established. Logically, that's how it is, since all the social science institutes together, if they joined together, they wouldn't have 100 doctors of science. In my institute, the Institute of Contemporary History, we're all about 15. Young doctors put up, but the old ones retire, so it's always about the same number of scientists. Only if integration is carried out by the system of bringing together grandmothers and frogs, or historical institutes, ethnological, political, musical, language and others, could one hundred scientists be drawn up somehow. Serbia's national humanist science is being destroyed. Since a national institute of 100 scientists cannot be formed in the field of humanistic science, humanistic institutes will remain in the position of ordinary scientific institutes with reduced budgets. Mr. Minister, I'm asking if these fears are justified. It's not just my opinion, it's a lot of colleagues. There's a certain fear. Furthermore, the rationalisation of the current network of the institute is certainly necessary to save the times of this so-called. the global crisis, so it could possibly happen, for example. to establish a national history institute and possibly a politician, which would be entered by the Institute of Contemporary History and the Institute of New History, the Political Institute, the Historical Institute, which is not known whether it is with SANU. The network of joint institutes could be entered by the Institute of European Studies, in which scientific composition is diverse, from politicians, sociologists, philosophers, economists, lawyers, to historians. If we all got together, there'd be at least 50 scientists and, Mr. Minister, I suggest you cut that 100 bar to 50-60 scientists. In the end, Mr. Minister, this is not my position, but the thinking of a large number of scientists of different political and non-political commitment. So a more reasonable solution is necessary to the glory of today's development of the social sciences of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37232	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37233	It is possible for me to read to the MPs who have all been accepted by the Government to amend and supplement the Law on Scientific Action: on Article 3, which were submitted in the same text by the MPs Srboljub Živanovic, Zoran Šami and Donka Banović; on Article 6, which was submitted by the National MP Donka Banović; on Article 11, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs Nikola Savić, Zoran Šami and Donka Banović; on Article 16, which was sent by the MP Goran Mihajlović; on Article 24, which was submitted in the same text by the peoples of Nikola Savić and Zoran Šami; on Article 25, which was sent by the MP Marko Milenković and Zoran Šami; on the basis of Article 26, which was sent by the Members of the People of the People of the People of the People of the Parliament, who sent by the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament, the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Member of the Republic of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member So these are all the amendments that have been accepted, accepted by the explanation submitted by the MP, so I think we have agreement on that now. As for your question, I must say that in the last 15 months of public debate, the first is informal, and then from June to November of last year, it was found that a large part of our scientific community, and also a wider, technology-gravity, wants to change. These laws allow for change. With change, and it's perfectly normal and human, certain fears are born, fears of change, whether these changes will be better. These changes will be better for me as a minister, and it doesn't occur to me that they are implemented in a cabinet, centralistic way. The changes will continue the way we started them, through discussion, but at the same time through decisions. One of the major problems facing our scientific community and beyond in the future of economy and knowledge in our country is that much has been debated, and almost nothing has ever been decided. We are prepared to take responsibility for decisions that will be made, but these decisions will not be made in any way in an untransparent way. You spoke, Mr. MP, of certain decisions regarding the rationalization of the institute's network. It is hard to believe that the only segment of society in the Republic of Serbia that should not change at all is the network of institutes, which has not essentially changed for 35 years. The institute you're talking about is actually an institute formerly called the Institute for the Research of the Workers' Movement of Yugoslavia, and the second historical institute you're talking about was the Institute for Studying the Workers' Movement of Serbia. Nothing in the sense of the gauge has changed. We have, as you yourself said, a problem with a large number of our institutes that are at the very edge of what the Accreditation Commission has drawn up, we have serious problems in functioning, we have duplication of directorial and other costs, and, when I tell you that, then people of goodwill will conclude that certain changes are needed. These changes are in no way, it seems to me, that someone decides that we need an institute, but it will be the subject of an additional debate, to see what is directed, with one single goal, and that, if we are already talking about social sciences, to provide our scientists with far better conditions for work. Because they are right in that part of our science that they say – you criticize us sometimes for not publishing enough works in recognised international magazines, but at the same time you don't provide us with the means to field work; and if we don't get the means to field work, then we're not able to form new observations, new data, which is essentially the first condition that our work appears in those magazines. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, they're absolutely right. But when we say that, at the same time we have to admit one other thing, which is that there are a number of people who work at the institutes, who basically spend a lot of their time out of the institute, who haven't published a single serious scientific paper for a long time, and we're going to want in the months that come that simply everyone endures their share of responsibility. If someone decided to be a consultant, let them be, but then don't pretend to be a scientist at the same time. If someone thinks it's possible to preserve this exact structure, they're wrong. We can't, given our country's financial opportunities, just adding costs, just adding institutions. We're gonna have to transform some things. But I repeat, no one thinks, and least of all I do, that it is done without dialogue and without agreement with the scientific community. The scientific community is people who have to be free to choose their projects, a freedom that must be combined at the same time, and that will be the novelty of what we will call in mid-May, and that is also the spread of competitions by invitation, with a number of topics which the parent committees themselves, not the Ministry but the parent boards and the scientific community, will set together as first-class and very important topics for discussion and development of quality scientific studies. It won't choose who will work them, but it will be said that on the basis of such topics such proposals are expected. We will recommence, on the one hand, in a much larger part what already exists, and that is to run for projects by the scientific community, with a novelty that will be called on on certain topics that we will determine together with the scientific community, so that we can be sure that in the upcoming call for funding of scientific works and very important topics will be dealt with in the right way for our country. Today I have no answer before you whether it is necessary to connect existing historical institutes, but I agree with you that things have to change. How are we gonna do that? So now that we have, I hope with this Strategy and quite quickly voted amendments and additions to this law, the constitution of the organs, the additional debate, but I repeat, after that – decisions, which I am willing to take and responsibility for in the name of the scientific community, because it seems to me, the only way to go forward, very broad consultations, the comparison of various options, seeing what are the advantages and disadvantages of certain options and in the given domain decisions, which we are going to implement this time. We are expected to streamline the network of scientific institutes. She's necessary. We are expected to improve social sciences, which in the previous cycle had insufficient resources, especially for field work, but at the same time we are expected to have a very serious discussion with those in those institutes, to determine whether or not everyone wants to do scientific work in the upcoming cycle. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37234	Thank you. Dr. Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37235	I thank Mr. Secretary. I said myself I was in favor of rationalizing the institute, but to make that number of scientists more understandable, 50-60 top scientists. For me, the importance of the project is far more important than many people. It means that a real project is the head of an institute. I would like to commend your project for future work, from 2010 to 2015, regarding the affirmation of national identity. I think I called him well, Mr. Minister. And I commend you if you remain in the next institutional period of business planning to continue to remain the project, which is of paramount importance for the survival of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37236	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37237	Let me get this straight. When we talk about national institutes, we are very careful to introduce this concept. As I said during the search in principle, there is no other funding or to God's privileges for those who will work in these national institutes. Our scientific community is too small to split. Basically, in no way should the subject be, in the next few years, how am I to qualify for this institute because it receives institutional funding, privileges in the allocation of equipment, etc. No, the only thing that is proposed here is that in those disciplines where it is possible to form a gauge institution that will be more in the position of having teams that will have critical mass at the level of our European colleagues, so that we have at least a few institutions that will be able to pass the gauge, namely the critical mass, to deal with what their colleagues are, but at the same time their competitors in other EU countries. On the other hand, as far as the institutes are concerned, no one says everyone should get to 100. Not at all. We need to find what's really pragmatic, but best as a solution. Finally, as far as affirmation of national identity is concerned, it is certain that we have had a lot of debate with our scientists and intellectuals on this issue. Yes, I confirm that the affirmation of national identity will be one of the priority calls for scientific papers in the coming period. After the collapse of Yugoslavia, after all that has happened with the threat of our sovereignty and territorial integrity, one of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Science is to ensure adequate funding in the upcoming cycle for one such direction and priority to be present. We talked about it in principle. Here I can only say that one such activity must ensure that even in the scope of celebration Serbia is again much more active. We must not let others in the region and in the world be their celebrations. Slavics are Slavics, but it is noticeable that in the last 10-15 years Serbia has not done enough on the agenda. That's what we'll do through co-operation with our classmates. We had an example, today in the congregation I'm going to tell you what happened and how it got rid of it. It's been waiting months to identify a lecturer at the offered Slavics Department at Beijing University. Somehow our country was unable to find, choose, finance a person who would represent our country at an extremely important university in the world. That can't happen anymore. Therefore, although I repeat, there have been a lot of discussions about this, the improvement of public policy adoption and the affirmation of national identities will be one of the priorities of the National Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37238	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 7. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted to the same text by MPs Goran Mihajlović and Zoran Shami. Goran Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37239	Before I move on to the explanation of the amendment, I need to make one correction. In my previous presentation, I regretted that all six of my amendments were rejected, but now I have heard from Mr. Secretary that two were accepted on Article 16 and 26, so I have to express my satisfaction, although we have not received this written document, so we remain uninformed. On the other hand, I regret that the amendment that I have submitted to Article 8 has been rejected. It refers to parent scientific committees, as specific expert bodies for certain scientific areas, branches and disciplines. In the current law, Article 25 defines the competences of the parent scientific committees and, among other things, some 10 points, i.e. 10 responsibilities to which this committee is engaged. The points 5 and 6 are interesting, to which my amendment applies. In point 5, it is said that the parent committee adopts an act on the categorisation and ranking of scientific journals, and in point 6 it adopts an act on the categorisation and ranking of scientific meetings. The government has proposed that these two points of change, and point 5) says – the parent board gives a preliminary opinion on the document on the categorisation of scientific journals, and point 6) – gives a preliminary opinion on the act on the categorisation and ranking of scientific meetings. Mr. Minister, you are known as a man of European and world manners, so you should, as such, remain a promoter of Serbian science in the world and present its achievements, not deal with such ongoing issues as the organization of magazines and professional gatherings. Of course, I don't want to say that gatherings and magazines are not an important thing for the development of scientific thought in our country, and that's certainly important, and we all know how much we share our opinions and experiences with our colleagues at these meetings, but, nevertheless, these are some ongoing activities to be done by the directors of the institutes and other organisations. So you still have to work strategically and promote our country in the world, not do this ongoing problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37240	Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Zoran Shami in the same text. Mr. Zivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37241	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 10 to delete. Explanation – the SRS considers it unnecessary to set up a new institution, the beneficiaries of the budget, while at the same time reducing powers for existing institutions. Here you can see that it was necessary or that you proposed to form a centre of exceptional value, which would actually follow the promotion and popularization of science in Serbia. But, ladies and gentlemen, how will this popularisation of science in Serbia be monitored if you know well that one third of the students have said that when they finish their studies they will not work in Serbia, while two thirds of the students have declared that they want to continue working abroad after the study is completed, but to keep in touch with their mother, while she does not want one third. Look how far we've come, as far as we've been through this whole science funding process, and what I've been saying in my previous presentation, how much science has contributed to devalue itself and devalue the values of science. So I think that this, as you call it, center of exceptional value, because here you left that old language expression, you want it to actually follow certain achievements. But if we look at it, there's also Mr. Professor, when Mr. Sreto Peric asked about the Aryan raspberries, I know you don't, you're a man of technique, but the minister should have comprehensive knowledge and calling and tell us how and how, if you plan this institute, the modified seeds have arrived at Serbia's space. Exactly, Mr Markovic, yes, Mrs Dulic-Markovic, she should appear to be asked how this happened, that is, how the destruction of our large institutes in Novi Sad and Belgrade is threatened. Ladies and gentlemen, I still want to answer one question that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic was talking about, which is that my political option or government of national unity remained in debt to the Kruševac workers, but I wonder how in 1999, when the criminal alliance bombed the town of Kruševac and the heat, who was then showing or serving to help certain locators, this criminal alliance, to bomb our economy, our economic facilities. It's those who belonged to the Resistance back then. It wasn't a political option, it was, in a way, a fascist organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37242	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37243	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Minister, I am a graduate farm engineer for livestock, but I don't think I always have to answer to everything. But I don't know what the locator is, but I know where the town of Krushevac is. Mr. Markovic, I'd like you to take notes when I speak. [[Momir Markovic throws from the bench.]] It's not bad for someone who needs to throw anyone away when he's talking. So I don't need to really talk about any engagement during the Resistance. I can only say, Mr. Zivanovic, two of my brothers were in the ranks of a victory army won by NATO. I was also in Krusevec, as a member of the Mountain Rescue Service, engaged in the extraction of people killed throughout Serbia and from the ruins of RTS. I won't ask you where you were then, or what you were doing, or what policy you were leading, but, I mean, when you talk about NATO victims of the town of Kruševac, you need to bend your head and shut up, because at the time NATO bombed the town of Kruševac, a lot of my fellow citizens died. And every year, just like this when Mart-April comes, I see these young people, my schoolmates, on the pages of local newspapers and in Kruševec and in Čačka and in Kralje and in Leskovec, and we give these people mentions. Well, when you talk about these people and those times, and you wonder what kind of politics you were leading back then, that year, bend your head and shut up for at least a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37244	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Before that, Mr. Momir Markovic came forward. You don't have a replica. You can only do so within the time foreseen for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37245	Even within the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Milivoevich, what you were setting up when you were arrested by the police, it's called a locator. That's the first one. Secondly, since you're an engineer for agriculture, is that right? I'd like to remind you of your famous chicken vaccination in Sokobanja, when you sprayed water on chickens, and then the chickens blacked out, so they sued you. Let me remind you just to tell me if this process is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37246	National MP Momir Markovic took advantage of a minute from the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37247	I wanted to answer only for the replica, because my name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37248	People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica. You can use the MP's time if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37249	No, I don't. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37250	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić, who wants a word. Here you go. The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37251	Mr. Minister, by my amendment, I suggested that you be in Article 10. The draft law, in the new Article 27g, deletes Article 11, which reads as follows: "For the Director of the Centre may be appointed a person who, in addition to the general conditions prescribed by law, meets the following conditions: completed graduate academic studies; working experience of at least five years; that has proven organisational and management skills". The Government's argument for not accepting this amendment states: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Centre for the Promotion of Science is not a research organisation (institute), so it is not necessary for the Director of the Centre to have a scientific calling or that he is an academic. The director of the Centre should, above all, have organisational and management skills, i.e. management skills and knowledge that promotes and popularises our science, scientific and technological results and achievements in the country in the world in the best and most efficient way. Mr. Minister, I ask you – can a prominent scientist not have organizational and managerial abilities? It is precisely in great advantage because of the greater possibility of looking at the problem of science, especially when preparing for the promotion of science, scientific and technological results and others. Co-operation with institutes and higher education institutions can certainly be done on a much higher level by a scientist of high scientific rank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37252	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted to the same text by MPs Nikola Savic and joint MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? The Committee on Science and Technological Development has accepted this amendment, and the Government has not. I'd like to ask the government's representative to say that, because of the stenogram, that amendment has also been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37253	In my previous report, I have read all the amendments that have been accepted and confirmed, and in this case it has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37254	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The Committee on Science and Technological Development has accepted the amendment, and the government has not. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to express the satisfaction that Mrs. Pajic had at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development yesterday had a spiritual format to understand and accept the three amendments that I have submitted and also invite you, Mr. Minister, to take this course and accept this amendment, which is in direct connection with you and to reduce your powers, all in order to preserve and cherish the democracy and democratic principles you are calling for. The amendment concerns the selection and resolution of the Director of the Scientific, National or Research and Development Institute. In this part of the Amendments and Supplements to the Law, the current applicable law is amended and it excludes the provision for the Director to be appointed on a reasoned proposal of the Scientific Council and resolves, with the opinion of the Scientific Council previously obtained. The message you send in this way is that you do not absolutely need the scientific council's opinion, and the scientific council consists of professional, competent people, who know each other best. In this way you show that you want absolute power in the appointment and resolution of directors, and that's why you're out of the law, and all of your stories about democracy and decentralisation begin and end up here in the National Assembly, and the centralization of power is getting bigger and more through the adoption of these laws by the ruling majority and through the practical functioning of the state apparatus where local self-governments literally survive because of the reduction of the transfer funds you send them. In addition to my claims, the remaining part of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law, where you provide for amendments and in the part of the proposal of the members of the Management Boards of the Institute and their number. In the current law, of the eight members of the board of directors, four were appointed by the Government and four were proposing a scientific higher, and you are now contesting the possibility of a scientific council to propose that fourth member and reduce one to have a simple majority of four to three. And the development of science? Does it matter to someone from the government? Of course not. What does it matter to them? They only care about power and power-building at all costs, taking credits that do not go into production and boost the economy, but in direct and uncontrolled consumption and presenting it through the media as a major success of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, we are coming up with a question that requires the establishment of an institute of national importance for the Republic to develop science and research activities, so to speak. The National Institute, if you've been running away from the most beautiful term for all the nations in the world all the time, national and why you're setting up a Science Promotion Center. I believe that Nikola Tesla, if by any chance knew the necessity of the existence of all these organs and institutions that introduce new "doses" governments and the inability to develop science and raise technology levels without them, would not have occurred to engage in such a complex process of scientific research in the field of physics, radiotechnics and electrical engineering. With the proposed amendment, I would only like to amortise, to reduce that too much power in the hands of the individual, in this case the competent minister, so if, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, the majority of the members of the board of directors are appointed, then it is not necessary that the Minister's approval for the appointment and resolution of the directors is not required, but only his opinion is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37256	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Transport and Communications will be held today, on 18 March 2010, starting at 1400 hours in Hall 1 on Parter. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37257	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 21(2) to replace the word "agreement" with the word "think". The reason is that the SRS believes that the minister must give an opinion on the problem, not agreement. You here, ladies and gentlemen, in this Article 21, say, "When the Director of the Institute ceases his term of office from the four years he has been appointed or the Director is relieved before the end of the term of office, and no new director, board of directors, with the consent of the Minister, has been appointed by the Director for a period of one year and within that time the Management Board is required to call a new public competition and appoint the Director of the Institute." This word "consensus" is replaced by the word "thinking" precisely because there would be no politicisation on the Committee or Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister cannot give his consent that someone would be elected to that post for a year, and we know well how and when you give that consent, only for politically similar and not for professional and smart people. Mr. Minister, again you haven't answered the question I asked you to tell me how and how a global crisis can be used in Serbia. Yesterday, in an interview with Kurir, you gave information that Serbia is not expected to improve until 2020. You keep changing, year after year, whether it suits you or how it suits the political party. Here, look, I'm showing you the paper. Don't look at Vesna, look at the newspaper. I'll look into Vesna, and you look at these numbers I'm showing you. I'm just kidding. I think you should give me an answer. I ask you once again to give me an answer as to how this global crisis can be used to make us feel better. If you give me an adequate answer, I will agree with this proposal of yours, and probably my parliamentary group, that you can give consent rather than an opinion, which I asked by my amendment to replace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37258	Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 23 refers, in fact, to Article 59 of the basic law, to item 1 of point 7 and suggests that the scientific council no longer proposes candidates for directors, but that it gives an opinion to the Management Board on candidates for the Director of the Scientific Institute, the Research and Development Institute and the National Institute. Mr. Minister, you're not a lawyer, so you may not have to know, but I'm sure you have people in your ministry who know what "thinking" actually means. It's not binding on anyone's opinion. Opinions can be given, can be sought, but in the opinion no one has to act. If you really wanted to protect the authority of an institution called'science Big', then you shouldn't have changed this term, or this point in law. It is quite right that the scientific council proposes a candidate for director. You have made this maximum relief by now proposing that the scientific council give an opinion to the Management Board on candidates for the Director of the Scientific Institute, the Research and Development Institute and the National Institute. This means that the scientific council can give its opinion, its subjective position on who should be the director of these institutions, but that this opinion does not have to be respected. Now the question is, why is that opinion even given? If you wanted that scientific council to have any professional credibility, credibility with regard to the appointment of directors of these institutions, then you should or should have kept the existing solution, where the scientific council proposes the Director, or to fully eliminate his or her competence in the election of the Director. Because this is how you discredited the scientific council. It will give an opinion, and that opinion may be appreciated, and it may not. Then the question arises why is the larger called'science' if his opinion of candidates for the Director of the Scientific Institute, Research and Development Institute and the National Institute does not have to be taken into account. So this proposed solution of yours is completely wrong. Better is an existing solution in the current law. We think you've had enough reason and reason to accept our amendment. We think the law on scientific research would be much better if there was an existing solution left. This is how credibility, the authority of the scientific council will be largely put under question. The solution is also contradictory in the sense that the scientific council gives an opinion on the selection of the Director of the Scientific Institute. Instead of respecting his position, and depending on the position of the scientific council, who will be the director, you put him in a second or third place of any authority that will give an opinion, whether or not he will be respected, that will show time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37260	It's been used for a minute and 30 seconds. Has it been from the time of the parliamentary group or the representatives of the parliamentary group? So, MPs' groups. Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, MPs Marko Milenkovic and Zoran Shami submitted to the 25th amendment. Mr. Nikola Savic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37261	Is he accepted? Yeah. ) Tell me if he's accepted, because there are some who aren't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37262	He's in the process because he didn't become an integral part of the text, but anyway, he was accepted. We expect the position of the Legislative Committee. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. This amendment has also been accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37263	The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 31 to delete. Reason – the SRS believes that the solution in the existing law is better and that it does not need to be changed. It is necessary to maintain the Institute of Appeal to the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read to you the argument of the Government: 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason he is a member of 6. The draft law lays down the competence of the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development. In accordance with the provisions of that Article, the National Council shall not have the power to decide in the second instance on researchers’ complaints against decisions taken by the Commission to obtain scientific calls. Researchers who are not satisfied with the Commission's decision to obtain scientific calls can launch an administrative dispute.' You see, if one of the researchers is not satisfied or if he has initiated a certain procedure, the National Council does not have that authority to decide on complaints, which we do not think is good. Surely no one can respond more adequately to certain problems that a scientist complains about than the National Council. Neither the court nor any other institution can respond more adequately and make a certain decision if this occurs. I think what you wrote, too, to start a administrative dispute, is not good. Internal problems, if any, are best addressed by the National Council, not deepened, delayed and given to another legal institution. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of problems and this is one of the main questions. Please take a good look at this article and this amendment, because if some scientist put out certain problems within the institution, you punish him, so to speak, you do not bring that judgment about him in order to solve it in an adequate way. I think you should accept my amendment. Just one more sentence to add, forgive me. If we look and we go back, to respond to MP Milivojevic, the patriotic forces have defended Serbia, while enemies have called on that treasonous alliance to continue the bombing because they have failed to break Serbia and the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37264	The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has proposed to delete the title above Articles 90 and the entire article 90. Otherwise, the title reads: "Awards and Awards for scientific achievements and the lifesaving work of researchers". The purpose of this Government proposal is to grant the right of award and recognition for top scientific achievements and results in scientific research, i.e. the prize for life's work, to be brought down to the level of the institute. In the current law, it was raised to the level of the National Council. The government now believes that the award decision should be made individually by the Institute. Practically, any institute will be able to reward its researcher, or employee. The SRS believes that the existing solution is better because it is the higher authority of the award-winning. In a way, it combines the entire scientific research work in Serbia, because there is one institution, one institution that will award awards to all researchers, regardless of which institution they are employed. Now you're going to atomize that reward system, and now every institute will be able to reward its researcher. The government has given an explanation why it does not accept our amendment. That argument, Mr. Minister, is quite inconclusive. We resent that you are now going to allow every institute to award awards to its researchers and we suggest that there remain an existing solution to which the National Council does, and you answer that it is important to point out that researchers who are involved in projects funded by the Ministry of Science and Technological Development with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget can achieve a monetary reward, i.e. a bonus for their outstanding scientific research results, and in accordance with the act on criteria and criteria for the evaluation of research work of researchers and thus remind peoples MPs, i.e. citizens of Serbia, of the fact that we all are well-known, that top scientists can be elected to regular and correspondence members of SAN and thus can exercise the right to an academic award as a form of social recognition. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, what you or your associates wrote in your explanation has nothing to do with the essence of our amendment. What difference does it make that someone can be a member of the SANU, whether as a regular or as a correspondence, with the fact that you are removing the right of the National Council to award awards and to bring that right down to the level of the institute? What does this have to do with the fact that someone can be a regular or a correspondence member of SANU, and what does that have to do with the fact that the ministry whose head you're headed can award rewards to researchers that the ministry hired? We don't talk about these things at all. We're talking about that no matter what institute they're working in, no matter what science they're dealing with, one institution should award prizes, be the National Council, and you will end this solution by giving the right to individual institutes to reward their researchers in part. We point out that greater social weight and scientific weight and professional weight have a reward given by the National Council than by individual institutes. And then you answer us why you don't accept this amendment, which has that essence, you say -- yes, but researchers in Serbia who have made an outstanding contribution to science can be members of SANU. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, this has nothing to do with each other. Then, in your explanation, you could say, yes, researchers who are very prominent may one day be ministers and may also be MPs, perhaps also be Prime Ministers or President of the State, etc. This has nothing to do with what the SRS has proposed to you in the amendment, so I strongly advise you to make sure that the arguments you give us have something to do with the meaning of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37266	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37267	Thank you, Madam President. I've been finding out for the past few years, and I'll be free to say, inflation rewards. We have in various segments of our society a series of institutions we want to reward. And if we look at the essence of the discussions that we had today on the National Council, we see that five years of system stuff hasn't been brought in. We see that the important things that need to be arranged in an institutional way for the whole community to function are not done. On the other hand, if one category of our society is constantly assessed by the nature of the work, it is scientists, in every cycle, in every project that is trying to get out of the EU funds, essentially at any time when they are trying to get a certain calling or title, so in this domain we need to further strengthen the system and institutions and it is very important that the National Council in the years to come focuses its own attention on this. And as for the reward, let's look at some other segments, where they tried to get past the system, how many problems they had. By what criteria, how, in the name of whom? Based on what criteria, other than those that already exist in the evaluation of their scientific work? In the explanation given to reject this amendment, it is said that we cannot and should not constantly seek some parallels to what existing institutions are. It should not be emptied from the meaning of the institution that exists. If they're not good, we have to promote them. It is true that the Academy of Science in every normal country is the top of the scientific pyramid. That's the way it's supposed to be. So those at the national level should also be recognised through this academic supplement (which we talked about in principle and which, I'm sure, we'll talk about again) are the right way to get to a well-organized system. And if a particular institute wants to especially single out someone who was very responsible and does it from their means, they're welcome to do it. A number of institutes are already doing that. I am not saying that Serbia should not, in a certain perspective, consider the possibility that, as some other countries, introduce a very prestigious award as a recognition for an annual or multi-annual particularly large contribution to our science, but at this point, as a large number of systemic matters have not been resolved, we do not need to occupy both the National Council and our entire scientific community again by talking about who is responsible and who is not deserved. For this there is an evaluation system, there is a call for projects, there are recognitions through rankings, there are parent committees, there is a Academy of Science. As for certain amendments, I only want, as I did earlier, to read, because of the minutes and the People's MPs, which the Government has accepted, to read those four amendments proposed by the Committee on Science and Technological Development, and the Government accepted. The first amendment is to Article 6 paragraph 1 of points 9 and 10, to replace the words "the centre of excellence" with the words "the center of exceptional values" in the corresponding decline. The second amendment is to Article 7. The bill, where Article 1 is deleted and Article 2 changes and reads: "The scientific research organisations that can apply for accreditation are: institutes, universities, integrated universities, centres of exceptional value and research organisations from the defence area and the Serbian Army". The third amendment is to Article 43, that Article 1 is amended and reads as follows: "Article 102 paragraph 1, the words ''Article 14 paragraph 1 point 11'" are replaced by the words 'Article 6 paragraph 1 of this Law. "and attitudes 2 and 3 are deleted. The fourth amendment is ''In Article 47, in the new Article 107b. Article 1 The bill of the word "Article 30 of this Law" is replaced by the words "Article 11 of this Law". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37268	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37269	Mrs. Comic, I don't know if I can get a word based on the replica. Yeah. Thank you, you're very kind. Mr. Minister, you seem to have no idea what the essence of the SRS amendment is. You say that in the last few years, inflation has been observed in the award of various prizes. And now you're going to suppress that inflation by actually encouraging it. Instead of one institution awarding prizes, they will now be awarded by five, ten or 15. You're saying you want to stop the National Council of Maltene from doing some awards every day. But look, Mr. Minister, what it says is Article 90, which you're terminating. It's not a reward for anything. "The National Council can award awards and recognitions for top scientific achievements and results in research work and for the life of researchers." I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, but top scientific achievements don't come true every day, they don't come true once a week or once a month, the question is whether they come true once a year, and in particular they can't be said for the researcher's life. So it doesn't seem at all that your finding that you wanted to disburse the National Council of One Job, which is that the maltenes were given prizes every day. It's just not true. Also, the purpose of our amendment is not to discredit the authority of SANU. Of course, it is understood that top scientists and researchers, no matter what area of science it is, should be elected as regular or correspondence members of SANU and no one has anything against it. THAT SANU, among other things, serves. But this is about another kind of reward. When you accept someone as a member of SANU, you solve his status issue – he has one social status, he is a member of the Academy, he is an academic. This is about awarding prizes in the form of certain recognitions, paying off certain money, etc. It is not true that the National Council would now be engrossed in the work of awarding, because from the formulation of Article 90 clearly arises – in order for someone to win a prize, he must have a top scientific achievement behind him, or that he deserved the prize for life's work, and you will admit, Mr. Minister, that doesn't happen so often. As far as these inflations are concerned, I think you and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic are a typical example of inflation of various prizes. It has happened to us over the past few years, Mr. Minister, that you or your colleague in the government are declared the best finance ministers in the world and the state before bankruptcy. Now I'm curious about the credibility of the institutions that gave you that reward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37270	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37271	The amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37272	On Article 34, the Committee's record states that the amendment has not been accepted. It's an amendment to delete article 34. Does MP Goran Mihajlovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37273	The amendment I have made is essentially technical, and I suggest that Article 34 be deleted. The title above article 91 reads by the promoter: "The rights and obligations of the staff of the Institute and the center of excellence". Today, we have pointed out on several occasions that the term "center of exceptional values" is more appropriate than the term "center of excellence" and we believe that for these technical reasons this change should take place. Although here is an interesting explanation by the government, where it is said that, in consultation with experts on English and Serbian, the original term "Center of Exellence" is more suited to the term "center of excellence", I do not see why we should adapt something to the spirit of foreign language. The spirit of Serbian language is much more suited to "the centre of exceptional values", so for this reason I believe it should stand in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37274	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before continuing work, in accordance with Article 27 and Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the usual one-hour break today will be decided a little later, given that we have already had an unforeseeable break between 10:30 and 11:30, and that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, and by discussing the point that at that time is the subject of our work. The 34th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37275	Madam Chairman, I would ask that, when you give your word to the MPs, before you say whether the Government has accepted or rejected an amendment that is on the agenda, because the MPs in their presentation have one review when the amendment is accepted, and the other when it has been rejected. However, the minister read which amendments were accepted by the government, but not all MPs were in the O.R. at the moment, so I appeal to you as chairman to collect information from the minister in front of you, so that we know what this is about. I'm really asking if this amendment has been accepted or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37276	National MP, the course of the session is such that we are all obliged to monitor what is happening at the session. The obligation of the proposing representatives exists precisely in order for the minutes, as well as for all MPs who follow the session, to be clear whether or not the amendment's representative accepts the amendments. So what you're asking me to do is your duty, not mine. It is my duty to remind the motionary's representative to make a statement as to whether the amendment accepts or not, and your obligation is to be present or to obtain information... (Milan Avramovic: How do we get here? Please don't throw it away. National MP Nikola Savic made a very serious complaint about the presidency and the course of the session... I warn MP Milan Avramovic that he is breaking the Rules of Procedure and throwing it away. So, MP Nikola Savic made a very serious remark at the course of the session and to deny his right to be informed of whether the amendment was accepted or not and it is my obligation to warn him of his obligations regarding the monitoring of the course of the session, and I ask the other MPs not to receive until, on the basis of Article 27, I give the necessary explanations to MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37277	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37278	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37279	After this presentation, I still don't know if the amendment has been accepted or not, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37280	People's MP, I now warn you of disrespect for the National Assembly and violation of the reputation of the National Assembly. So, if you want to mock the procedures that you and I are obliged to do, then I am obliged to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to which I impose criminal measures for the will of the MPs to mock procedures and to mock the obligations and rights that we have and we who chair and all of us who are in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37281	Okay. Will you count me this time as you were saying?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37282	The People's Messenger, to any MP who has asked for an explanation of the time that has been used and spent on an explanation, is not as calculated as his, because it cannot be, since it has been spent to give that explanation. So, you have your minutes and 45 seconds to explain the amendments, and as time of the parliamentary group you have 33 minutes and 30 seconds. You have spent 15 seconds asking me for a notice on which amendment has been accepted, whether or not your amendment has been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37283	Thank you. Now you've made yourself clear. (Chairman: Please. I hope you don't mind. I have submitted an amendment to Article 36. The bill also asked for the mention of a member to be deleted. I must repeat some of the words that have been heard many times today in this assembly, both from the MPs of the SRS and from the MPs of the DSS. Why did I ask you to delete this member? Namely, I asked that the Centre of Excellence be replaced by the center of extraordinary values, to return to what was old as it was. I have to say I'm not an English language expert, but I'm not an expert on Serbian either, but "the center of excellence" means absolutely nothing to me. Really, it doesn't mean anything to me, and it doesn't mean anything to ordinary citizens. I believe that every layman who knows languages is clear that the literal translations from one language to another cannot be done. It would be the same if, in some technical book, an electromagnetic field were translated into an electromagnetic meadow. I really don't understand why this amendment was not accepted, when many of the amendments containing this matter were accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37284	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37285	Essentially, your amendment has been accepted, but because it has not been properly formulated, Mr. Shami's amendment has been accepted. He did the same, but in a legal-technically correct way. That means the expression changes exactly how you wanted it to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37286	The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37287	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS, I've been thinking a long time about the old law, as well as the addition of the Law on Scientific Research. The amendment is to delete article 48. Explanation – The SRS considers the solution to be more adequate in the existing law and better defined co-financing of programmes and projects of regional importance for the development of scientific research work. However, the government replied: 'Amendman is not accepted because he is a member of 48. The draft law in a more precise way prescribed co-financing of programmes and projects of regional importance for the development of scientific research work'. I think it should have remained the way it was under the old law or that you accepted my amendment, because many projects that are related to the regional part (when I say regionally, I think for a certain part of the region of Serbia) still require that part of the work to be done. I must tell you that the Sabac was intended to build a factory for the destruction of physical-chemical waste that was active. However, thanks to the councils and citizens of Sapca, the project was rejected because we came to the conclusion that the project is dangerous to the environment. In my previous presentations, I've been saying how much you've destroyed, so to speak, those science institutes in the great giants. It was actually a foundation, it was a foundation, it was a foundation where these young brains were absorbed, these young scientific workers. This has caused the greatest harm to this society and this country. The institutes have been destroyed, these young people have been destroyed, because their scientific work has been interrupted. To create one scientist today, he needs to go through a test of both practical and theoretical work. But you didn't understand. When you destroyed those business entities, you also destroyed these institutes. And these institutes were, in fact, an extended arm of scientific institutes that, in the former period, 70-80% were self-financed because they were doing projects, because the economy was working. Now I ask you -- with this money as much as you from the Ministry of Science get, is that enough to finance what you imagine? You're catching on to Ollie Reno, you promised to give those 200m euros of a lifesaving act to save both economics and sciences and everything you've destroyed in these ten years. It is impossible now, by certain transactions, by flats or by any means, by any improvement in the working conditions of scientists, to improve, to stop or return to the country. Who will believe you that the one who went abroad in the diaspora will return? He's got experience, but he doesn't trust you. He was once played, twice played, third time he can't, because he doesn't trust you. That's the problem, and it's very indicative of regionalization. I'm afraid of making certain projects because it's going to be on some kind of political key again. Where you're in power, that's where certain projects will be financed, where there's another political option, it won't happen. Because when you're supposed to deal with political inexperiences, you don't choose funds, you don't look at the benefits of Serbia and citizens, you destroy them. You have proven this through the most profitable branch, which you are now grasping as a straw of salvation, which is agriculture. You don't have anything there. You're trying to put it out through paperwork, so you can convince those who are the most valuable, bravest, so they can stay, because they only defend this country, because they only protect this country, they're the only ones trying to save this country. And that's Serbia's peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37288	Four minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37289	Your Honor, Madam President, Your Honor, I would still like to make a contribution to the debate and the law on science, not to talk about agriculture. I was five years old when I read the work of Carl Collodi's Pinocchio. You know, Pinocchio was for us kids a symbol of lying and telling lies. First his nose grew, then he turned into a donkey. That's what the fairy tale says. Life is something else, not a fairy tale. I would ask the apostle who spoke before me – excuse me, Mr. Zivanovic, are you coming from Sweden or from Capco? Did you come here, to this country, from another planet or did you come from the city of Capca? And were you perhaps in power in this country in 1999? Now that you know all this, why didn't you apply that expertise in 1999? When you were in power, agriculture flourished. That's when the villagers could buy all the gas and diesel fuel they wanted at the gas station. When I was in Capco with you in 1999, the Sabbath was a superman city. There was a man standing on every corner selling super from a two-litre plastic bottle, but before that, he had a good time at home to get as much gas as possible to pour it. When you talk about the collapse of agriculture, about which you fail agriculture, Mr. Zivanovic, are you talking about? You're a farmer, and you're not a failure and you don't look like a failed man. Many other farming people have not failed. The fact is that the situation in the country is difficult, the fact is that the situation in the country is very difficult, but please, this is where the harshest untruths are brought out. You just claimed that I was setting up locators, that I was spraying someone with water, some livestock, you and my colleague Markovic. When it comes to me, I really don't need to react, but I didn't sleep through 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. I've been so awake. That's when you made me a five-colonel. Every day I was fifth in the milk column, zeythin, sugar, gasoline... And don't talk about brain drains now. My entire generation, my entire class left the country at the time you were in power. They won't come back because that's where they became accomplished experts, where they now sell their knowledge. Only three of my colleagues, my classmates, teach at the most prestigious universities. You need to build a monument in the U.S. You should have a monument both in Washington and New York, because you've driven the flower of Serbian intelligence out of this country. My schoolmates are lecturers at Harvard, Yale, and now that Serbia is investing 200m euros in knowledge, science, technology, it bothers you, and you're pushing clips into points of Serbian knowledge, Serbian progress, Serbian prosperity. At one time, Nikola Tesla had to leave the premises of the then state and go to America to become Nikola Tesla, but because of you and the politics that you've been leading and because of the time I've lived in, and I haven't slept through it, hundreds of thousands of young people have left this country. And today, people who watch this session of the Assembly of their loved ones, their grandchildren, children, friends, relatives who have been educated in this country, look only at the color pictures that children send to them and wait for Christmas or Easter to come to their country. Today, when we invest in knowledge, when we invest in education, when we make laws like this that will make Serbia a state of knowledge, a state of scientific prosperity, progress, when we talk about the situation for Serbia and how it is lagging behind both in scientific and technological development, you have to wonder what your contribution is to this lagging Serbia. Where were you and what were you doing? What is it that you now have not taken advantage of when you have had every opportunity to manage this country? Because you ruled this land at the time, and you didn't rule. Because you didn't have a vision and a strategy of what science should look like, because you were opposed to science and progress. And don't lecture us today on patriotism because we can't measure ourselves in patriotism. The DS was not in power when NATO marched with 30,000 NATO troops. And your leader spoke – if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, I will retire from politics for life. What are you doing here? Come on, go home to the Sabbath and let us do the work we know about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37290	Four minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. People's MPs, Srboljub Zivanovic, who has the right to reply, MP Momcilo Duvnjak, who has the right to use the time of the parliamentary group, and MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and has the advantage. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 104th and most kindly please, Mrs. Komic, that this debate does not turn into a personal account of Mr. Milivojevic with any SRS MP. Take care of what the topic of today's debate is. If a member of the SRS were to speak as Mr Milivojevic has now said, making very rude illusions about donkeys and bringing out false things, I am convinced that you would turn off his microphone. As for that, Mr. Milivojevic, who was in power, is behind you sitting people whose leader was foreign minister in 1999, and on this side there are people whose man was the head of the government. Now I'm curious to know where you get the moral right to rub anyone's nose when he's in power with anyone. They arrested you. They said the Resistance was funded by the US administration. NATO marched on KIM at a time when Mr. Vuk Draskovic was foreign minister. As for when DS was in power, remember, Mr. Milivojevic, you're older than me, from which parties sat people in the then federal government in 1992-1993. From whose party was Miodrag Perisic, for example? SRS or DS? We've been in power for two years, you've been in power for ten years. Now tell me who had more time to realise their ideas, their programs and make Serbia a successful state. You ask what we did while we were in power. We have defended the land from those who then funded you and who are funding you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37292	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. With insight into the stenogram and discussions of all MPs, you can find proof that no MP has been interrupted, except for the MPs who asked for an explicit explanation. With the words spoken, you can see that the application of the Rules of Procedure is exactly the same for MP Srboljub Zivanovic and for MP Srdjan Milivojevic. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37293	Thank you. First, I must answer to MP Srdjan Milivojevic where I am and when I work. I worked at the Zorca Chemical Industry in Sapac, in the mineral fertilizer factory. Certainly not like him, but as a successful executive at that time, when the government of national unity invested 50 million dinars in revitalising that drive that could be launched today, but this government doesn't want it. Mr. Milivojevic, I'm sure you have to trust me to say what I'm about to say, and you could see for yourself, about the difficulties of the greatest hero of the work, i.e. The peasant. You destroyed him, you destroyed him. You took away from him all that he created or those who created behind him for decades. You say you're an agricultural expert, but I'm asking you -- where are you, when you are, and what in your life have you been doing as a agricultural expert? I'm no agricultural expert, but I'm a master of technical science. I even wrote a few scientific papers. And I would ask you, when did you and where did you write the scientific papers and where could you promote them? Mr. Milivojevic, in these ten years, you've destroyed the one you hold on to as a straw of salvation, and that's a peasant, that's a village. Look at the age of the machinery that a peasant drives today to process the land to feed us and to allow us to sit here today. Mr. Milivoevich, you tell me – go to your Sabbath. I was at my farm this morning, but I'm asking you where you've been. You've been in hotels, you've been drinking here tonight, you've been bohemian, so I'm asking you how and in what way you've contributed and the work of the Assembly and that all of this is being implemented by these laws that we're talking about today and we want to improve Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37294	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Momcilo Duvnjak. You have the right to use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37295	Dear People's MPs, I'm just going to talk about the town of Krushevec from which I come, about the destruction of the pear...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37296	National MP, you have been given the word to speak of the amendment to article 37, which was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. If you want to talk about the amendment and respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges us all to talk about the agenda point, you have your word. All right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37297	My presentation is about this amendment, but I'll give my opening statement first, and then I'll tell you about the amendment. I'm sorry. Let me tell you, I'm starting to talk. I can only say about the collapse of the pear industry since it came...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37298	People's MP, I warned you that you were given the word to talk about the amendment to Article 37, which was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The amendment reads: 'In Article 37 of the 4th and 5th centuries, the words 'the center of excellence' are replaced by the words 'the center of exceptional values'. It's an amendment that's been accepted. Please make the time available to you as the time of the SRS parliamentary group, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the member who obliges you to speak on the agenda, use it to speak of this amendment. Here you go. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Komic, I really can't understand why you're using double arches to run a session of the National Assembly. The same article was said a little while ago when Mr. Milivojevic talked about the 90s, about standing in line for gasoline, about NATO, about how some of his friends turn over at Yale, Harvard, Oxford and who knows where, and when Mr. Duvnjak tries to explain the meaning of the SRS amendment, you say - talk about the amendment. Excuse me, explain to me, I may not be smart enough to admit that I'm not, but I really can't figure out what the gas lines have to do with 1995 and his friends from Oxford with our amendment. I really don't see any connection here. If Mr Milivojevic, a DS MP, can freely interpret the meaning of our amendment, and in a very bold way, insulting the MP who submitted the amendment, because his allusion about Pinocchio, donkey and donkey ears, sorry, is not suitable for the Serbian parliament, why does such freedom not have an MP who belongs to the parliamentary group proposed by the amendment? So either here is really going to respect the same arches about how they run the session, about the style of MPs to explain the amendment, or this is no longer the National Assembly, but MPs of the ruling coalition can tell everything they want, thereby bringing out a full sack of falseness, and when the MP of the opposition party tries to explain the amendment that his colleague has submitted, it is completely irrelevant whether the amendment is accepted or not... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Then that man makes it impossible to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37300	There's no damage to article 27. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that, with thanks for warning me that I am too broadly interpreting the Rules of Procedure by allowing MP Srboljub Živanovic that, in explaining his amendments, I am not holding the agenda, but using much more than creative freedom of speech, so that so is allowed to MP Srdjan Milivojevic, you said that this is an infringement of Article 104, and I said that it is not an infringement of Article 104 and that all MPs have equal rights during the session. Given what MP Srboljub Zivanovic said and the MPs of other parliamentary groups, you will see that it is allowed, believing that the content itself is such that it can be widely interpreted, that it is spoken beyond the agenda. You said it shouldn't be done and I thank you. With our co-operation, MP Momcilo Duvnjak, of course, can use his time and talk about the amendment. You want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37301	Mr. Minister, I understand this amendment has been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37302	The 38th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was accepted by the minister's statement, i.e. the proposing representative, but since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, the amendment did not become an integral part of the Bill's proposal and I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to be the subject of the debate. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 41st amendment. And that amendment has been accepted. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. And that amendment has been accepted, but if anyone wants a word, they're right, of course, because the amendments are the subject of a search. No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. And this amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 43. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 46th Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Action, which I asked for this article to be deleted. I want to make a difference between the previous amendments, which were filed by the SRS and some other parties, where we asked members to be deleted. The previous amendments asked for members to be deleted for linguistic and lexical reasons, and this is about something else, and I asked this member to be deleted for essential reasons. I believe that this article, which is scheduled for these amendments to the law, is reducing the rights of institutions in the field of scientific research. I also think there is no need for some excessive arbitration of the minister in this area. This amendment should be accepted in particular by what it requires to preserve the financing of specific programmes and projects, and in the explanation given by the Government for failing to accept amendments to these projects, or their funding comes down to some co-financing, which is not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37304	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 47. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37305	In fact, Article 47 refers to Article 107 of the existing law. A new title and several new members are added here, otherwise it is about property rights to research results. The amendment refers to a new article 107v: "The participant in the project that created the invention has no right to publish it, nor to make it available to the public in any other way until the project contractor submits a patent application, or a small patent." What does our amendment consist of? To add words – that a participant in a project that creates a find that is directly related to the project does not have the right to publish the same. I see you're nodding your head. Does that mean he's accepted? Okay. Then it's the minister's fault. I wouldn't explain the amendment if I knew you'd accepted it. But while I'm explaining it, let me put it this way -- so someone can be involved in several projects, but also that these projects create certain inventions, and then we can't have these people stalling, or that they can't report the founding if it's not related to the projects they're involved in. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37306	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37307	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is related to regionalisation, and if we look at the Strategy, which we adopted on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, it says – in Serbia seven priorities are in the domain of science and technology, which are biomedicine, new materials and nanosciences, environmental protection and climate change, energy and energy efficiency, agriculture and food, information and communication technologies, improving state decisions and affirmation of national identity. These seven very important national priorities cannot all be applied in one place. This must be applied regionally. The most important question is agriculture and food production, which today, I think, is one of the most important priorities not only of this government, this country, but is a priority for the whole world. You know how hungry the world is today, but do you know how hungry it is today in Serbia? And if we turn around and connect to these folk cuisines, which was your main point and focus in 2000, when you went into battle, in the five-eyed revolution, then you brought those folk cuisines as the first thing that was represented back then in society...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37308	People's MP, please bring about revolution, folk cuisine and your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37309	Well, please, here, I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37310	You've been talking for two minutes. I have been warned by the deputy president of your parliamentary group that I am allowing you to use the argument too widely, so I ask you to bring all this into contact with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37311	Please, if you're not, look, it all says here in the Strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37312	People's MP, we are currently discussing an amendment to Article 48 that you have submitted, where it says that article 48 is deleted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37313	Please, the regionalization of these projects is what I'm talking about. You can't make food here on the asphalt, you can make it in the Sword, in Srem, there... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37314	People's MP, you are required to obey the chairman's instructions, which take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the order of the session. I warn you that I have already reminded you that you should respect the Rules of Procedure and speak of what is on the agenda. Please re-apply if you wish to use the time of your parliamentary group and speak of your amendment to Article 48. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37315	Thank you, Chairman. You do not allow me to participate constructively in the work of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, but you interrupt me. Please don't interrupt me...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37316	People's MP, I warn you that you are currently committing a criminal offence, so for the second time I warn you that you respect the Rules of Procedure and the obligations laid down before you by the Rules of Procedure concerning the obligations of the MPs who justify the amendment in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37317	Thank you. I'll keep going. I think the Ministry of Science and Technological Development should turn to agriculture and food production, where we may be the most present today. When I say food production, I mean healthy food production. I believe that this is the basis for getting out of this difficult economic situation and I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development should together help to ensure that all these difficulties that are present in this branch of economy can be adjudicated, that is, what I was saying in my lab, is that agriculture is the key to the realization of exit from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37318	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milan Avramovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37319	I'd like to report on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, and let me also ask you, in which section of the Rules of Procedure, that you are obliged to dictate the terms of time when the MP will make a buckle between the subject of the agenda and the one he has discussed or the example he has set? If the amendment is explained in two minutes, where does it say that in the first minute, a buckle has to be made to explain the amendment? That's one thing. Another thing, how do you know, and where do you get the right to deny the freedom of the speaker, any MP of the people, by assuming that he did not make the buckle or to warn him to make the buckle? What member of the Rules of Procedure says that? And that's not the first case. This is aimed at defocusing the speaker, distracting the subject from what he was about to say and directing the course of his exposure to a course that might suit you. If there's anything that suits you or doesn't, I suggest you write a list of appropriate measures, hang it in front of the entrance room, so we know how to behave without you warning us and interrupting. Mrs. Comic, I'm not mad at you at all, but rest assured, it's only a practice when you're chairing. This is not done by any other chairman and no one is referring to the same Rules of Procedure. If no one else does it just you, it means that all the other presidents are breaking the Rules of Procedure. So make a selection of what you can say and what you can't, and then explain to us what freedom of speech is in a time frame when the buckle has to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37320	People's MP, there's no breach of Article 104 and what you're suggesting me to do, I'm doing right now. I suggest there is a member of 103 who says the speaker is obliged to speak about the agenda. Carefully listening to all the speakers and all the MPs, I kindly ask the MPs to remember that there is a member of 103, and no MP who is kindly asked to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that apply to each of us has had any objection. So it will be in the future, because Article 103, which says we need to talk about the agenda, obliges all of us. The 56th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. At this point, we're finishing our morning work. I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work at 1545 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON INOVATION OF ACTIVITY (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: together by Zoran Shami and Donka Banović, Goran Mihajlović, Srboljub Živanovic, Nikola Žutić, Nikola Savic, Milan M. Nikolic and Zoran Šami. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law of innovation, and that is to 18 members of this law. I asked the amendment to delete this member of the law. I asked for this for a simple reason, which gives this member of the law too much authority to the minister. If we look at the amendments and the amendments to the law and the basic text of the law, we will see that in Article 22 of the basic text of the law, five points describe what needs to be fulfilled by a company. But this amended member of the law, you put all this into the hands of the minister, at his good will. Of course, the minister should have the highest responsibilities and the highest authority when it comes to the Ministry and things like this, but the minister is not a man who has knowledge from all fields, from all sciences and from all disciplines. I believe that this amendment should be accepted for the simple reason that the minister is also a man and can be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37323	Thank you. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 31 by MP Zoran Shami. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes that the amendment be accepted. I'm asking the government to plead if she's changed her mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37324	Thank you. Good afternoon. As suggested by the Committee, the government has decided to accept amendment 31 of MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37325	Thank you. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Would you like a word, Mr. Michaelovich? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37326	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The government, when it refused, replied: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason of Article 34. The proposal for a law in the text of the Law on Innovation Activity removes the provision of Articles 2 which cannot be applied, as it provides for an obligation which cannot be implemented, from the aspect of the regulations governing the innovative activity, and not the regulations governing the records in the register of economic operators, either in relation to the property, or in relation to the 'total value' of the legal person. "Ladies and gentlemen, this area is very important because people who are engaged in innovation and who want to contribute to their scientific work, want to register, write, to perpetuate the value they call innovations. Many times these works in this area are not published or applied. But if someone registered that "product" of theirs, it actually showed that no one could abuse tomorrow or display their name on that product. So, he protected him with his registration. I think the government should accept this amendment, because this amendment solves certain problems. When I say it accepts my amendment, I mean the old innovation law that should actually be applied, because in the new law, it's a little legal protection for anyone who has protected their product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37327	The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Milica Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37328	No, there's been a switch of cards, so it's Ambassador Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37329	Mrs. Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37330	It's important that the microphone works. So our amendment refers to Article 36, which actually changes the existing Article 45. The proposal suggests that the board of directors have five members, consisting of three representatives of the Government and two representatives of the Fund's staff. We propose that the board of directors have two representatives of the Government and three representatives of the Fund's staff. We believe that this amendment should not have been made and that, on the board of directors, the absolute majority should still have people from the fund itself, not the Government. Thank you. I'm sorry, you got my word by mistake and it's precedent. Mr. Nikolic, if you remember, this presidency did not allow him to speak by using someone else's card, so you'll have to find your card. Do you want, Mr. Shami, to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37332	I can count on the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Let me just add about this amendment, when it comes to it, that even through this law, even though it feels less here than in the Law on Scientific Action, it still feels the urgency that the Ministry and the Minister are the absolute verdicts in all the affairs related to this area. This also shows this desire to create an absolute majority of the ministry's representatives on the board of directors. I'm sorry the amendment wasn't accepted. It just shows that the bill promoter wants to implement what he's up to. I haven't heard, but I don't think you've talked about the amendment to Article 31. It says here in the shirt that the government didn't accept it, but as far as I know, the government has accepted the amendment. (President: that amendment has been accepted. I'd like to add one more piece of information. There is a correction to that amendment. Namely, the error is the letter "b" instead of the letter "v", and that completely changes the meaning, so I'm asking you to keep that in mind. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37333	The amendment has been corrected and accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Proposal for an Innovation Labour Act. My amendment reads that the mentioned article is deleted. At first glance, if you did not tap into that amendment, someone might say that this is another one in a series of amendments submitted by the SRS or the opposition party where you are asked to delete the members. However, with a little more insight into all this, it can be concluded that my intention was just the other way around. Simply put, this amendment requires erasing the delete. So, amendments and additions to the law predict erasure. Here's the thing. It is the 47th member of the basic text of the law, which refers to the public work of the Fund. You are here to erase this member's final position, and he says the Fund can deny the provision of information prescribed as official or business secrets. I felt that in any case in the law they should remain information that could in certain ways be swept away under official or business secrets. You can see for yourself, in the very name of the Innovation Technology Act, that there are things that need to be treated in a specific and specific way. It is clear to all of us that today, in the world, the world's most closely guarded secrets are those relating to innovations from various technological areas, social, health, anyone. Whoever owns that information, practically always has a better chance of making progress in every way than his own competition. In an explanation given by the Government, it is said that this is in some way contrary to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. However, I do not think that this law should be applied to this place where it is not necessary. We just have a million examples where you're just not going to apply the information law of public importance. One example we saw here in our parliament this morning when our head of the parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, asked to be delivered, primarily to the public of Serbia, information on whose capital is and what money is purchased by the company Novosti. You, of course, didn't deliver it, but in this law, where it's practically not necessary, but it's necessary to have official and business secrets, you kind of adjudicate it with the law on the availability of public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37335	Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Mr. Shami, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37336	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have filed on behalf of the DSS amendment to Article 39, which, unfortunately, says it should be deleted. In fact, in Article 55 of the existing law, which is covered by this Article 39, two new positions are inserted, which say: ''The Government may, on a proposal from the Minister, until the appointment of the Director of the Fund, appoint an acting official. The Government may, on a proposal from the Minister, appoint the representatives of the Fund in the first meeting of the Fund's managing body until the conditions for their proposal are met in accordance with the Statute of the Fund. This is something that, I'm sorry, is totally unacceptable. The government on the one hand has an absolute majority in the decision-making of the Fund, and then if for any reason the authorities are not elected on time (for what may happen, the Government has an interest), then the government will simply set up who will do it and then it is over. Then it's one fucked-up condition from now on, so while the government likes it. I have no say to tell you how much this is involving the government in some business she doesn't have to deal with. Not just mixing, but direct management of something. Then why is there even this organization, why the Fund? Let the Minister and the matter be decided. No Fund, no board of directors, we'll save some money. Then let the minister manage everything, the entire innovation activity, or some ministry officer. But that's not the point, is it? We are full of the mouth of Europe and European goals, etc., it is all beautiful and beautiful, and then in practical laws we introduce some of our Balkan rules of play. My God, the prince will ask all things, but whoever disagrees with the prince, so much worse for him. I still have no comment at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37337	Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Innovation Activity, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Nikola Žutić, Aleksandar Martinović, Svetlana Stojanović, Donka Banović, Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andrić, Nenad Prokić, Simo Vuković, Srboljub Živanovic, Zoran Šami, Goran Mihajlović and Slobodan Samardžić. You have received reports from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Žutic submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Articles 1 and 1. Mr. Martinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, this amendment to Article 1 is the best proof that the government is not doing as it should be done and as far as you as minister can be brought into an awkward situation, I doubt your guilt, but definitely the guilt of the people who prepared the government's explanation why it did not accept the amendments of the MPs of the SRS. Look, Mr. Minister, in Article 1. The bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia reads as follows: "The Society of Serbian Celebration, founded on 19 November 1841 (November 7th 1841), and the Serbian-trained Society, founded on 29 July 1864, preceded the establishment of the Serbian Royal Academy on 1 November 1886, and thus the current Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts". Mr Nikola Žutić suggested reshaping Article 1 or Article 1 item 1, only to change the wording schedule, but attitude 2, Mr. Minister, remained completely identical. Article 2 thus reads this: "As the date of the establishment of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts is taken on 19 November 1841 and it is entered in the relevant register." This is what Mr. Žutić's amendment says – as the date of the establishment of SANU is taken on 19 November 1841 and is entered in the relevant register. So it's the same formula. Now listen, Mr. Minister, what the government has said is why it does not accept Mr. Žutić's amendment. This is just amazing. He says, "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that question the credibility of historical facts. In fact, it could not be said that as early as November 19th 1841, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, called the Association of Serbian Communities, was founded, but was only later believed to have been one of the two predecessors of today's Academy. Otherwise, the above-mentioned formulation in the bill was prepared after consultation with our prominent 19th-century historians, and we believe it is of paramount importance that the formulation of the bill remains in force." Mr. Minister, if you can explain to me how it is possible that the wording in the bill is not acceptable for the proprietor of that formulation, here, I'd like to hear it. It's just amazing. You say in the bill that it is taken on November 19, 1841 as a date for the establishment of SANU, and then in an explanation why you do not accept an amendment that has a completely identical formulation regarding the position of Article 1, you say - no, it cannot be taken on November 19th, we have consulted historians, it was only later that it began to be considered that it could not be 19th of November. Mr. Minister, this is scandalous. Of course, this is, first of all, ridiculous, but it's also sad. We are passing a law on perhaps the most significant scientific, cultural and artistic institution in the Serbian people and already on amendments to Article 1. You don't know the bill yourself, as a proposing, which is the date taken as the date of the establishment of SANU, whether it's November 19th or not. You say in the bill that it is November 19th. Nikola Žutic says it is November 19th. In an explanation of why you do not accept Mr Nikola Žutić's amendment – no, it cannot be considered November 19th, but some later date, we have consulted some well-known historians who deal with the history of the 19th century. I'd love to hear it, Mr. Minister, who are those great historians who told you to write such a brilliant explanation. So, either November 19th is the date of establishment or not. If it isn't, the question arises why did you even mention it in the bill? Because when you say it was first founded as a Serb ceremony society, I guess it's just a little bit too much for SANU. SANU was not always called that, but changed names through historical development, but the essence remained the same, which is to be the supreme guardian of the scientific, cultural and artistic identity of the Serb people. That never changed, either in the 19th or early 21st century. The names changed, the presidents of the Academy changed, the historical contexts in which SANU acted, but the predecessor, the Serbian Communion Society, was definitely an institution from which today's Serbian Academy of Science and Art emerged. Mr. Minister, it's just amazing. In the first article of the bill, in the first amendment, we are tripping over which date is taken as the date of the establishment of SANU, and I do not think it is appropriate for the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about an extremely important scientific and artistic institution. To play with dates and historical facts is a slap and a SANU, but also a Serbian science and Serbian art in general, as well as a Serbian people because SANU had an important place in the history of the Serbian people. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, there were extremely brave academics throughout the 19th century and through the 20th century who were able to sublime those most important national aspirations of the Serbian people and who did not hide behind their scientific and artistic actions and said, you know, we are scientists, we cannot deal with daily politics. Remember Isidora Sekulic, remember Ivo Andric, remember many others who had the courage to say 1941, at a time when it was very difficult to be a Serb, and who refused to sign "Apel to the Serbian people". They didn't have much sympathy for bettervism, for partisans, for Tito, but they said – we can't sign anything, no document signed under the pressure of the occupation authorities. And now we're playing with such an important institution as SANU. No matter what you personally, your government or the ruling coalition think of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, I don't think she deserved it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37339	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37340	Thank you. Dear People's MP, I have listened carefully to your reasoning and, if I have the right, and I think I have, in my personal opinion, a lot I could, listening to you, accept. However, the government rejected this amendment, and I understood that the reason it was refused that even in the Academy itself there was no agreement among academics and that this was more rationally done the way it was done. I will take the opportunity to inform you that the Committee on Science and Technological Development has considered amendments to the SANU Bill submitted by the MPs, that out of the 29 amendments submitted, eight were accepted: Amendment to Article 6, which was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic; Article 9, which was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Ivan Andrić and Nenad Prokic; to Article 9, which was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic; to Article 11, which was submitted by MP Zoran Šami; to Article 13, who was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic; to Article 15, who was submitted by the National MP Zoran Šami; to Article 43, who was sent by the MP Zoran Shami and to Article 45, who submitted to the National MP Goran Mihajlović. So, out of the 29 amendments that have been made, eight have been accepted, and I find this to be like respect to the significant extent and attitudes of the Assembly and constructive work on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37341	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37342	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I know, Mr. Minister, that it is not easy for you to explain such a bill at all, but I have an obligation as a member of the Parliament to ask you – what date do you take as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a date for the establishment of SANU? Is it November 19th or not November 19th? If it is November 19th, then the question arises why didn't you accept Mr. Nikola Žutić's amendment? If it's not November 19th, where did you get the courage to defend the bill saying November 19th is the date taken as the date of the establishment of SANU? It's just amazing that at the beginning of the debate in detail about the SAN Law bill you tell us – the academics disagreed when the Academy was founded. I guess you should have consulted, done some serious scientific consultations, so when academics, historians, come to the National Assembly and propose a law on SANU and say, "Here, that's the date on which SANU was founded, around which scientific consensus was reached." If you as a representative of the government can't answer my question when SANU was founded, what does that mean? That your party colleagues are going to vote on a SANU law that will contain incorrect data? Article 1 will state that it was founded on November 19th 1841 as a Serb ceremony society, but it will not actually fit the historical facts. What kind of way is that? Where is it in the world? We are playing with the most important institutions that exist in the Republic of Serbia and in the Serbian people at all. Please, Mr. Minister, everything else is irrelevant, it's all irrelevant what the bill says if you, as a representative of the Government, can't answer a simple question for me – what date does the government take as the date of the establishment of SANU? Please answer that question for me. I believe that all MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, respected academics will be interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37343	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37344	Mr. Minister, a historical member, who is modest by his data, incomplete and, chronologically looking, with an illogical title, I have reshaped my amendment, bringing it into some more logical sequence of historical organizational events. In its explanation, the government stated that my amendment "was not accepted for the reason why it questioned the credibility of historical facts", because "it could not be said that on November 19th 1841 the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, called the Association of Serbian Communities, was already established, but it was only later that it was considered that this society was one of the two predecessors of today's Academy". The government's Article 1st and this subsequent argument are simply illogical, because, on the one hand, they do not link with the Academy of its predecessors - the Association of Serbian Celebration and the Serbian Learning Society, and on the other hand, as the date of the establishment of SANU, the date for the establishment of the Serbian Communion Society is taken. If it goes according to the principle of continuity and discontinuity of the institution, then, according to the Government's interpretation, it is the right date for the establishment of SANU on 1 November 1886, and not in 1841, as the Government suggests in its Article 1. I, too, stated in my amendment that the Academy was symbolically founded in 1841 under the name of the Serbian Communion Society, as well as the dates of the establishment of other Serbian, cultural and scientific institutions are symbolically taken according to the first organisational form of the institution, which in its beginning does not resemble much of its ultimate institutional successor, such as the Great School, Licej and, finally, Belgrade University. In a principle debate on this member of the law, I myself pointed out, during a speech on the case of Serbs from Boka Kotorska Riste Kovacic, otherwise a member of the Serbian Student Society, a certain discontinuity between the Serbian Student Society and the Serbian Academy. In the debate, I pointed out that in 1886 the Serbian Royal Academy was founded, while the Serb-trained society, which lasted several more years parallelly, was only attached to the Academy in 1892. So there was a certain discontinuity. Furthermore, the draft law does not specify dates for the establishment of new Academy organisational forms. The first date is fully precise, as the law stated the establishment of the Association of Serbian Communion by the old, July calendar of 7 November 1841 and the new, Gregorian 19 November 1841. The Serbian Student Society in Article 1 says it was founded on July 29th 1864 and it is not known whether it is an old or new calendar. In fact, the date indicated is on an old calendar. The same is true in the establishment of the Serbian Royal Academy, it stands only in November 1886, but it is not said whether it is an old or new calendar. When it started with the history of change, why didn't it go to the end, and the change was called the Serbian Royal Academy on June 30th 1947 at the Serbian Academy of Sciences? It is expected that communists and Republicans have thrown out a monarchy name, but it should have been written in the bill. Finally, the date of today’s name SANU was also to be written, i.e. the date when the word "art" was inserted in the name. Obviously, it was stingy with words in this introductory historical article, but the scope of the law itself is modest and unspeakable to me. With these outwittings, the most satisfied will be Serbs from the Cankova League, who propose to delete Article 1 or the history of the Academy of Law. I guess the history of the future Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art will be increasingly studied, which, apparently, is already acting as some foreign academy in the Serbian people. Mr. Minister, I am asking the question - will the legal path set up by a completely independent Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, which clearly does not fall under the provisions of this law? Will this law vote "the National Assembly of Vojvodina" and thus become the supreme legislative body of the new state of Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37345	Thank you. Mr. Milosavlevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37346	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Žutić, Mr. Martinovic, listening to your intervention and believing that it is well-intentioned and that it aims to delete a very important law, the law on SANU, and at the very beginning make it clear and accurate, we suggest that, if you are ready, we reshape the amendments so as to delete Article 1, which remains Article 2, which reads: "As the date of the establishment of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts is taken on 19 November 1841 and it is entered in the corresponding register" and that, with that transformation, we accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37347	Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, respecting the fact that this is an extremely important bill, accepts the minister's proposal, and I think it's a good thing that we can reach a consensus on the date of establishment of the most important scientific and artistic institution in the Serbian people, but I would still ask you, Mr. Minister, to take care of important dates in Serbian history next time. Because if we don't respect the dignity of our history and if we don't respect it, it's hard for someone else to do it on our behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37349	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. So we're going to do this editorial. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37350	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, honourable ministers, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 1, but for the reason that we believe that this member is no place in one law at all, nor have we, in any other law that we have passed, established the historical predecessors and date of establishment of any institution. Ten days ago, we established the Law on the National Assembly in this congregation, so we did not establish its historical history and date of establishment. We do not view the reputation of the National Assembly as less than the reputation of SANU. On the contrary, we think that SANU in its history had at some point to be reconsidered, which should be considered, not to use any more difficult qualifications. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the Government said, if the Government is the one who put together an argument, that the amendment is not accepted 'for the reasons why historical facts about the creation of the Academy are one of the elements of its authority and reputation'. We do not think at all that it is necessary to define the authority and reputation of any institution or any institution on which we have passed the law here by that law, nor that the Academy would have less authority and respect that we did not put it as a member of the 1st Law. We believe that the Academy in other ways should take care of its reputation, not putting such provisions into the law, which are not a guarantee of any reputation of this institution, not wanting at all to challenge its importance, which is ultimately defined as an institution of special national importance. Given that we have submitted a number of amendments to this law, I will use this time to talk briefly about each of them. I will not report for the other amendments, so I ask you to include me in the time of the parliamentary group of times I may have extended. I've got a series of grudges on this bill. It's mostly about the fact that all the Academys are putting in a position of privilege compared to all other scientific institutes in our country, so we see that, let's say, the scientific institutes established by the Academy don't need to meet the conditions that all other scientific institutes have to meet, so that only six scientific institutes need scientific and professional associates for the Academy, while the other institutes in this country need 12. We see that at the time of the general rationalization of the Academy, by adopting the provisions of some of these members, it deprives itself of any possibility to even consider the abolition of some of the institutes, although it is easily verifiable that the production of science in these institutes was not exactly at the level at which science production should be at the institutes of a national academy. Then, we see that academics, again at the time of the savings, are several times increasing their academic rewards, so that they will reach even some of them, as they say in their explanation, unattainable figures, even about a thousand euros will be the height of some academic rewards, without any desire of academics to engage in any additional way in improving science. We see that the Academy will have to state the exclusive right of unlimited availability of property in state property. We see that the Academy actually has no intention of improving its work, reforming itself in any way and in the right way fulfilling that role that a national Academy of Science and Art would have to play in every society. It's very problematic, when we talk about this Article 1, the way this law was started. This article gives the whole law a pamphlet character, if I may say so. It is very logical that the Academy herself insists on its reputation, on its importance. It is a bit of a concern that the Government has a condescending relationship with the Academy, both when it comes to the arguments of the law and when it comes to the arguments given to MPs for the rejection of amendments. Mr. Martinovic talked about it. However, it is not very common to reject the laws of MPs in this kind of "pamphlet" and "brochurian" manner. The question arises who wrote the arguments. These aren't legal arguments. They're asking rhetorical questions here. They are quoted as thinking about some philosophical topics, some of our prominent historians, etc. So, for the reason that none of the Social Democrats League amendments to Vojvodina's Social Democrats are proposed to the adoption assembly, unless the Parliament in the Election Day really adopts our amendments, of course our MPs, so five Social Democrats League MPs, Vojvodina, have no intention of supporting one of the "Bruschurski" and "pamfletski" laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37351	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think, Mr. Minister, the problem with this bill is, among other things, if we ignore this date-playing, the concept of nature. I have the impression that the government of the Republika Srpska Academy of Science and Arts is experiencing as an institution of the Serbian state, and we in the SRS consider SANU to be an institution of Serbian people, and one living outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia and those Serbs who may not be citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our academy is not called "the Academy of Science and Arts of Serbia" and is not called the "Serbian Academy of Science and Arts", but is called "Serbian Academy of Science and Arts". It is an institution that belongs to the entire Serbian people and cannot be tied exclusively to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, its activity takes place mainly in the Republic of Serbia, its headquarters in the Republic of Serbia, I believe that academics are in the highest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but still, by their own importance, it exceeds the existing borders of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, it is possible that this historical fact you know, the first president of the Serbian Royal Academy of Sciences, which was formed in 1886, was one Serb, but not from Serbia. It's Joseph Pancic, a Serb Catholic from Sibenik. As you can see, history has contributed to the SRS's thesis that SANU is an institution of national importance, of importance that exceeds the existing borders of the Republic of Serbia. Approximately, the meaning of our amendment that we have submitted to Article 2 is that. The government of the Republic of Serbia rejects this amendment with the reason that our amendment "a number of narrows down the characterisation of the Academy and its activities, since science and art have, in their nature, universal and then national values". That, Mr. Minister, no one is questioning, but you have to make sure that SANU has the aim of fostering science and art in a nation, in the Serbian people, that these global, universal human values in the fields of science and art and culture are nurtured within a nation. SANU never had the pretense to be a mondialist academy, to be a science and art academy around the world. That can't be it. It is an institution that cultivates universal values, but within the framework of a nation. We don't think there's anything going on here. If you follow the cultural history of the 19th century, you will see that, in the same pattern, such and similar institutions were created among other peoples. They were all meant to implement the highest human values, the highest human achievements in the fields of science and art, within the framework of a nation. This is how queens were produced among Slovenian peoples – Matica Serbian, Matica Slovak, Matica hrvatska etc. In the same pattern, the National Academy was formed in the 19th century. No one question that these values belong to the cultural heritage of all mankind. Of course it is, but the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, again bearing in mind her name, her name, aims to cultivate you universal human cultural values within the frameworks of a nation. Then it is quite logical that our amendment says that the Academy develops and promotes science, organises and promotes basic and applied scientific research, encourages and promotes national, cultural, artistic action and thus contributes to the general good Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, the goal of the Academy, as the SRS understands it, is that these universal human values in science and art are nurtured within the frameworks of the Serbian people, so that the Serbian people, at their level of civilization development, can reach and reach the highest human cultural values. We don't think there's anything going on here. It seems to me that the legislator, the government, wanted to be too mondialyst. Then you should have changed the name of the Academy, that it is no longer called SANU, that you should have deleted any national or state decree, then be called "the Academy of Science and Art," and then no mention of the Serb people is required. I have the impression that you have been running through the entire bill of one simple fact that SANU belongs to all Serbs, both those in Belgrade and those in Novi Sad and those in Nis, but also to those in Knin and those in Banja Luka and those in Cetinje and those in Skopje. It is an institution that belongs to the entire Serbian people and is also called. Since that's what it's called, through the whole bill of law, this concept of national, not the mere state character of SANU, had to go through. Unfortunately, it does not slip through, and therefore the bill is confusing and simply does not know what the billmaker had in mind by writing this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37353	The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37354	Madam President of the Assembly, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group to support the government's position not to accept this amendment. What this group of MPs from the Social Democrats League have proposed makes it clear about their position and the importance of SANU. If they have already disputed this position which clearly defines SANU as the only institution representing the Republic of Serbia in international associations of state-run academies, they should at least say which other academys they propose to be representatives of international associations and institutions. I'm guessing it's VANU, because they're hearty and they're trying to establish themselves. In the end, Mr. Canak, as president of the assembly, is one of the founders, not to mention the founder of that academy. "The Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts as regional, with ambitions to be realized as a Central European, is directed towards the system of the value of space and the environment in which it acts, starting with the following basic principles," and globalization is mentioned, etc. Among other things, "Vojvodina has specificities that require the scientific description and explanation and artistic expressions, but at the same time it is a space that corresponds to other heterogeneous European and world regions and the results of VANU provide bridges to connect Vojvodina and Serbia with the world, which are ultimately needed after the last decade in this and wider area." Here is what one academy in its programme writes and how it imagines, among other things, international co-operation, and to remind you, also from their programme, of their work – international co-operation with the Austrian Academy, the Dukljan Academy, the Hungarian Academy and individual members of SANU has been achieved in recent years. From what they have proposed, it clearly stems from whom the party wants to promote as a representative of science in the northern region of the Republic of Serbia, from the AP Vojvodina. I think it's primarily a reminder to DS to think twice about who he has for a coalition partner. Does this mean that if what they have announced is realized that if their amendments are not accepted, they will not vote, this law may not be passed here in the National Assembly? And besides this amendment, they have even more malignant amendments. In one of them, they suggest that the SANU Department be abolished in Novi Sad. This only speaks of their intention and their policy and their view of Serbian science. I think it is inadmissible and that, above all, you, their coalition partners, should warn them that it is absolutely not of interest to the Serbian state and Serbian science. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37355	National MP Nikola Žutic submitted an amendment to Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37356	Mr. Minister, as you know, I have submitted an amendment to add Article 2a after Article 2a, which reads, "The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts in Work and the functioning is independent of ideological and political influences." I have therefore submitted a very important amendment, because, looking at the historical vertical of these Serbian and Yugoslav spaces, historians could see that throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, ideology and politics were hampered by the free and autonomous work of scientists, while the Serbian Academy was often a hostage to ideology and politics. As I pointed out in the principle debate on this bill, Serbian academics, university professors, and scientists and institutes were burdened by the pressure of ruling ideology in a certain historical era and from it came policies. The pressure on Serbian science began in the last decades of the 20th century in the form of new truths, imposed by the Austrian-vatikan historical school of counterfeits, through the austrophy regime of Milan Obrenovic and then the ruling advances in Serbia, specifically from 1871 to 1887. Unfortunately, the national cabinet, or government of Liberal Jovan Ristic, had to fall in 1880 because of Austrian pressure on Serbia. It should not be forgotten that Jovan Ristic's cabinet tried to release economic-political dependence on Austria and that by starting a commercial customs war. But by coming to power, Austria imposed on Serbia a secret convention in 1881, which ordered Serbia to fully disown BiH and to ban any Serb propaganda in BiH in this regard. In such a political climate, Serbian scientists of humanistic sciences were well prevented from revealing national historical truths. On the other hand, Serbian scientists under the rule of austrophy Milan Obrenovic were simply forced to write on the orders of the Austrian historical school of counterfeiters, who at the time fought against the so-called. Romantic, and from the position at the time of popular so-called critical historical positiveism. Unfortunately, then-Serbian academics have in some cases bought such Vienna forgeries. Those candidates for the calling of academics who opposed such natural historical and religious truths have never succeeded in their efforts. Kovacic's example mentioned in my principle debate on this bill is only a good illustration that a certain foreign ideological and political course forced an impact on Serbian science, as well as on scientific activity in the Academy at the time. Let's see how the ideology reflected on the work of SANU. With the change in the ideological and political climate and the arrival of Karadjordjevics in 1903, and thus the turn of Caesaro-pastic Austria towards liberal France, Serbian workers begin to perform from the expressions of Yugoslav positions in line with the ideology of French liberals, i.e. the Maseraria, which had exceptional importance in Serbian society and then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Since the first decade of the 20th century, Serbia has therefore begun to dominate the new ideology of French civil liberalisation, under the avant-garde leadership of free builders, who imposed a new national model of Yugoslavia on Serbian humanistic sciences. However, it should be noted that at the time, a new civil ideology under the mass leadership played a positive role in Serbian society because of the imposition of European modernisation processes, but also because of the national liberation action in the Balkan wars and the First World War. It should not be forgotten that between the two world wars, free masonry had a particularly strong ideological impact on the Serbian Royal Academy and Belgrade University, so in the highest Serbian and Yugoslav institutions, scientific thought was directed towards an integrated Yugoslav and anti-clerical direction of fighting the Vatican, but also against new surging totalitarianisms -- Nazism, fascism and communism. So science was to a good degree in the ministry of one ideology and one policy. Again, Serbia's national history has suffered because of the scientifically commissioned story of brotherhood and unity through Yugoslavia as the merger of three old peoples and the rise of the nationality of a nation, in particular, in this case, the rise of the history and antiquity of Croats. In the period of occupation 1941-1945, it is known in what conditions ideological nazi-fascist totalitarians could act as Serbian academics, who were mainly questioned, imprisoned, and killed by anti-liberal German military and police formations. Many from the intellectual mile are familiar with the difficult political conditions of censorship that Serbian academics had to work from 1945 to 1989. In the late 1980s, the Serbian Academy finally freed itself from the tutelages of communists and socrealist ideology and politics and spoke in the language of the necessary national protection of the Serb people and the protection of the then-existing Yugoslav state. Because of the discovery of truth through the SANU memorandum of the difficult and humiliating political and economic position of the Serbian people, the attack on academics was fierce, simply speaking the language of truth and suppressed justice for the Serb people. By adopting this amendment, the Academy could act more freely in all times and political systems. I know this amendment of mine is a little utopian, because there's no country or political system in the world that doesn't put ideological and political pressure on the field of science. By accepting this amendment, Serbian science could appeal to this legal member, so that it could act as independent and free from adverse ideological and political influences as possible. So the Academy would be freed by Serbian tradition, nation, state of harmful ideological political influences. Such an amendment would preserve the integrity and exclusion of the Academy, so SANU would remain a basis for the protection of national historical and cultural state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37357	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37358	Dear Mr. Yellow, I'm listening very carefully and I think the elaborate is too wide and the argument is too thin. The integrity of each institution depends on the quality of professional competence and the strength of the scientific foundation of each member, not on what it says in the explanation for the amendment, as you have given. So, unfortunately, this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37359	Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37360	Mr. Minister, you still haven't figured out the essence of Mr. Nikola Žutić's amendment. We in this amendment do not think in any way to say that the moral habitat of academics is weak so that it should be defended by legal solutions, but we want to ban the influence of the state and political parties on the work of SANU. We fully believe in the moral regularity of academics, we don't question that at all. We want through this amendment to formulate a ban on institutions on the side to act on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So that there is an institutional limit to the state, compared to political parties, compared to NGOs, compared to organisations from abroad to exert ideological and political pressure on SANU. Mr. Nikola Žutić is absolutely right, such pressures have been throughout history. But if you could listen to Mr. Žutić's statement for the rest of the time, the conclusion is quite clear – most of the Serbian academics remained faithful to their moral principles and did not give way to pressure. Now we want to institutionally disable these pressures, and there have been such pressures, Mr. Milosavljevic, will certainly be in the future. Mr. Žutić illustrated an episode of these pressures for you. And I mentioned it when I explained the amendment to Article 1. So in August 1941, Commissioner Milan Acimovic's regime asked Serbian scientists, artists, university professors, respected public workers to sign the famous "Appel to the Serbian People" which was directed against the Communist Party and against the Partisan squads that were forming in Serbia's territory. Ivo Andric, Isidora Sekulić, Milos Đurić refused to sign the "Apel", of course, not because they were communists or because they had a lot of sympathy for Josip Broz, but because they felt that it was not morally in one difficult historical time for a people to sign any document that was made up under the pressure of the occupier. The famous words Milos Djuric were sent to a colleague of his from the Music Academy who signed "Apel". On his question, why didn't Milos Djuric sign it, he said, "It's easy for you, you play in a play, and I teach the students ethics." So, even today, we believe that the moral integrity of Serbian academics is as it was in 1941 and earlier, but we want to prevent, say, someone from the government, someone from this political party, from trying to put pressure on SANU. That's what we want to prevent with our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37361	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37362	Yet I suggest you stay with this first one, believe in integrity, dignity and quality, and that at least as much as we trust in our respected academics, you have and that this is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37363	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Stojanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37364	In 2004, SANU gave its opinion to the Council of Serbia on what language or languages are spoken in the area of the former Yugoslav republics, today independent states. The reason that the Education Committee asked for such an opinion was a basic school textbook entitled 'The Bosnian Language Book'. There was no need to be a great language expert to make sure that the problem textbook was written in the purest Serbian language. We received the opinion of the Department of Language SANU summarised on two sides and greatly supported by the articles of linguists published in professional journals. The answer to the SANU Language Department in 2004 was that Bosnian is not legitimate, Bosniak is. Serbs, Croats, Bosnians and Montenegrins speak, linguistically observed, in the same language, but, in accordance with international conventions, every nation has the right to call its language according to its ethnicity, history, in accordance with its desire to distinguish from another nation or the same people living in another country. Every nation except the Serbs. Lingvists in Serbia have no conditions to deal with language studies that Serbs speak, write and create their literature. Serbians do not have the support of this government and the Ministry of Science, both material and moral. The Serbs are left to themselves to solve problems that cannot be solved without money from the Republika Srpska budget. Instead of singled out decent funds by the Ministry of Science and allowing the Serbians to work uninterruptedly to develop neglected and neglected Serbianism, the government decided, instead of scientists and against the will of the Serb people expressed in the Constitution, that SANU would continue to issue a dictionary that would be called the Serbian language Dictionary for decades to come. Only Serbs speak not Serbian, but Serbian Croatian. You won't find such a thing in any of the former Yugoslav republics that are now independent states. I ask the MPs to think carefully and adopt the amendment submitted by the DSS. With our amendment, we propose that the multitomous very significant dictionary issued by SANU be renamed "Serb Literature and People's Language" instead of the Dictionary of Serbian Croatian Literature and People's Language, as it is now called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37365	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Ivan Andric and Nenad Prokic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37366	Dear President, dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must state what the proposal was to correct one, in my opinion, deficit in this law. Based on the experiences that exist primarily in the region and also in some academics, or you will define yourself as a solution in which it is clearly defined that the academic title is life-long and the law does not further discuss this matter, or you will create a capacity in which the academy, and I think it is much better, can in some situations, which are exceptional, resolve academics. I have to add one comment here, to the explanation, so I don't repeat with the other amendments. It seems to me that most of the arguments rejected by the amendment were not written by the legal hand. I'm not a lawyer, there are a lot of fellow MPs in this room who understand what this legal and technical editorial means, but it seems to me that with a lot of improvisation, there are reasons to reject certain amendments. What is specifically stated in this explanation is that in the history of the Academy, someone never happened to get rid of it. I can accept that fact, but that doesn't mean that there's no possibility that someone with their actions would be in a position not to be worthy of the academic title. Why are we closing this legal capacity so that possibly the Academy can resolve an academic if there are extremely specific circumstances? In a number of reasons, the one who wrote the explanation called for tradition. I agree that we have to take care of tradition, and it's not a topic, but, as you have some positive tradition, which I suppose is the task of all of us to inherit it, there is also a negative tradition. So that's not a legal argument. I'd like you to think about that too. I call on Members of Parliament to consider and possibly support such an amendment, which is absolutely going towards building these legal capacities in order for the Academy to be able to respond to situations that are exceptional and have an appropriate mechanism to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37367	Mr. Shami, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37368	Just for a little while, something I said at the first item of the agenda today. I'm distracting you that you have the wrong information in your shirt. Namely, there are amendments adopted by the government and the amendments the government has rejected. There are amendments adopted by the Science Committee, but the Science Committee has not declared itself to the amendments the government has rejected. So he didn't accept them or refuse them, because he voted four for, four against and one abstention. There's a colleague here from the board, they'll confirm it. It's probably a service mistake, so I'm just saying that if it says in your shirt that the Committee didn't accept the amendment, it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37369	Thank you. National MP Simo Vukovic tabled an amendment proposing that Article 10a be added after article 10a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37370	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to replace the word 'certain' with the word 'prescribed'. The SRS considers the term 'prescribed' to be more active and clear. In Article 11, we have: "The status of the Academy can be determined that the total number of members of the Academy cannot be greater than a certain number, with a view to preserving the balance between individual fields of science and art, and especially between the number of members from social and humanistic, from one, and natural and technical sciences, on the other, as well as between individual departments." Ladies and gentlemen, on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I have asked for the distinction of these two words, because I consider the word "prescribed" to be more appropriate. It is more adequate because we know that there must be a certain number of members of the Academy of Sciences. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that even in the time of tribal structure, it was decided by someone who was the oldest. I think it's necessary here, too, to ask those who know the most, because the wealth of a country is precisely in the number of those who know and know that matter. It seems to me that the Academy has never wondered about anything, but usually certain economic analysts who were politically colored and whose goal was for certain things or information to be transmitted as the ruling coalition wishes. But surely these people from the Academy, in certain areas, have never approached any other political option, but have seen what is for the benefit of the nation. Unfortunately, we also had in the previous period that politics had entered the Academy. I believe that now, this Academy law that we have all unanimously accepted on the Committee will finally enable this institution to work. Because let's look at what's actually happening today - contradictions in certain laws. You've never consulted the Academy of Science. If you are adopting law in the area of law, these people need to be consulted, and academics, and if it is from the area of economy, consult people in the area of economy. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that two days ago from Brother Montenegro came the Serbian National Council, which was received by the Diaspora Committee. Unfortunately, no political option except the SRS has welcomed them. And they needed to exchange views and preserve the issue of the Serbian nation. No one showed up, not even from the Academy of Science. I think it's a big mistake for all of us here. It was supposed to work together to save Serbs in the whole area. Because, and the thesis of "Great Serbia" is only a desire to preserve Serbs in the entire area of the old Yugoslavia, with respect for all citizens and peoples of any religion, to give us as much security as we provide to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37371	Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, since the motionary has defined that in this part of the law, I have tried to impose it as a binding provision through the amendment. I'll tell you, for example, the experience of the Croatian Academy. The HAZU Act clearly established the total number of members of the Academy at 160. Our promoter defined himself as having one reference provision, which practically in a member of the law that regulates it leaves the Academy with the term "can" determine the total number. So, I am fully behind the fact that the Serbian Academy of Science and Art should be an autonomous, independent institution, as defined by the law, but it seems to me now is a chance to set things right within the Academy (I'm talking about these procedural things). It seems to me that here, in this discussion, in this search somehow attempts to polarise the MPs in one political way that someone is against the Academy and the others are for the Academy. I don't think anyone in this room has the interest of having an institution that has a 170-year tradition in any way disabling, but in front of us is a serious problem, and I also said in principle: whether we want an institution of honorary citizens, i.e. scientists and artists, or whether we are going to create, as the law defined, the highest scientific and artistic institution, but adapted to the needs of Serbian citizens in the 21st century. My basic concern, which I don't see in this discussion, is what Prof. Micunovic said in the principle debate, referring to this whole package of laws, what is true, that in the last two decades, because of the hermetization of our state, because of objective political circumstances, we have a problem with the provinceization of science. It's a fact, and I'm afraid that this provincialization of science will be spilled into the Academy. We have to stop it through one quality law. It seems to me that in legal solutions, when we think about these amendments, we should think about these capacities that will allow the Academy to adapt to the needs of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37373	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Yellow, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37374	Mr. Minister, in the government's explanation of my amendment to Article 12, it is simply said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution in the context is exactly the same as the bill, and the only difference is in the order of listing of the institutions that have the right to propose. However, the point of my amendment is precisely in order. In my opinion, the institutes were placed in an unworthy pre-lated place of institutions that put forward proposals for the selection of academics, so behind the branches of the Academy, Senates of the university, teaching and scientific councils, teaching-art councils of the art academy. So that's why I felt the need to change this order in this bill. By the way, I mean, the scientists of the Institute of Social Sciences are completely disabling access to the calling of academics. I ask the question – are the exact scientific results of certain institute scientists not enough to call academics? For example, did one Dr Branislav Gligorijević, who was an outstanding researcher and published over 30 books, not deserve to be called academics? As far as I know, there's only one academic from the Institute, and it's from the Balkan Institute. Only Professor Tasic became an academic, and it really, in my opinion, tells everything in favor of this request for institutes to be treated differently. So here, in this lofty home, I ask a public question – is it just an exceptional scientific range important to call academics or is it also about other, invisible recommendations to us, in fact, ideological and political recommendations? Scientists outside the Academy are plagued by some secrecy in selecting future members of the Academy. According to scientific towers, stories can be heard that a certain scientific quality of candidates is not always crucial, but that, with a certain quality of candidates, it decides the ideological and political determination of candidates, or sometimes called moral-political similarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37375	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 15. The amendment was jointly tabled by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 15. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37376	Thank you, Madam President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is one inconceivable, and my discussion now depends on that inconceivability. It is not disputed that the Committee on Science accepted this amendment, so some colleagues from the ruling majority also voted. On the other hand, yesterday I received information that the government did not accept the amendment, and today the minister read that it had accepted the amendment. Let me get this straight first.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37377	Here, let me get this straight and thank you for giving me a reason to make this clear. In the report here before me, I have written that amendments have been accepted and to the mentioned article 15, your amendment, and to Article 11, submitted by Mr Zivanovic. Unfortunately, however, they are probably in the record from the Committee's session and on the side where it says what has been accepted and on the other side where it says what has not been accepted, that these two amendments have not been accepted. The government didn't accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37378	So we have a situation that the Committee has accepted them, and the government has not accepted them. Now I'm going to explain what's going on. Namely, in Article 15. The bill states that the award is set for academics, which is two and a half average salaries in the state of Serbia for regular members and two average salaries for letter members of the Academy of Sciences, which is some increase compared to the situation so far. Translated, to speak Serbian, that means about 75,000 dinars per month for one and 60,000 dinars per month for others. Contrary to the LDP amendment, which suggested that this should be abolished as a category at all (I suppose the Academy of Science should also be abolished), I suggested that this increase be increased to four average salaries for regular and three average salaries for letter members of the Academy of Sciences. Once again translated into our language, in this situation it means 120,000 and 90,000 dinars a month. I got, as a reason the government didn't accept the amendment, a little cynical explanation that, behold, the Ministry of Finance couldn't cover it. Now let me explain to you what the Treasury can't cover. The difference at an annual level is about 800,000 euros or, if you prefer, about 80 million dinars. We in Serbia have one 50 agencies that spend between 20 million and 100 million dinars annually. Only the Ministry of Finance spends 237,600,000, I think, a year on salary. Since they're at the Ministry of Finance, it's known, all the academics themselves, maybe that's what's deserved. What's this about? We even got an explanation, he says – we asked academics, they were satisfied. Of course, if you'd asked me, I would never have submitted an amendment to what my salary was. Anyone who holds on to himself will not, in this way, discuss his own compensation. However, there are two motives. First, we have one completely wrong belief that academics usually make a lot of money on the side, have some income, etc., and then they don't need any compensation. I assure you, I will not deliberately mention the name, I know who it is, about one unfortunately late academic who died living off a pension of 22,000 dinars a month and complained to his friend that unfortunately he had no money to buy a new shirt. So it may be inappropriate to discuss academic incomes, but let us not live in the belief that they have great incomes. But even if they had big incomes, we have one academy of science and art, we've heard, 170 years. I can assure you that some newly-roasted states would love to have something they could call the Academy of Science and Arts in the right sense of that word and they would love it very much if they had 170 years ago, but they don't. We have, I think, 211 currently living academics. The question of status is important. We can't spare on that. I remind you, seven and a half billion euros are the expenditures of our annual budget, and 800,000 euros are problematic for us. To make things worse, one later member of this law says that this will not be applied immediately, but only from next year. I'll talk about it in particular. Don't cut the donkey to the green grass. And that's what I put the amendment on, which also the government didn't accept, which is that it has to be applied from the moment either the new budget or the rebalancing of the existing budget, because I believe we'll definitely have some rebalancing. I already feel like I'm cursing when I mention the Ministry of Finance, like I'm insulting this congregation. Do not convince me that the Serbian state does not have 800,000 euros for the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. And we heard from the mouth of a vice president of the government the other day in Kopalnik so that we could invest one hundred million euros in ski routes and that's a maltene done thing. I don't mind ski trails, but 100 million and 800,000 are two completely different sums. Therefore, I consider the last cynicism of the government to say that there is no money for such an increase. I think the government really legitimateizes itself in the perfect light, just as it is. Please, let's not appeal to academics as a rule being humble people and not talking to the newspaper about their incomes. You know, I don't like to talk about how much my receipts are, because it's not very nice to say that my receipts are small, it always sounds bad. But let the people have their dignity. They deal with serious things, because if they didn't, they wouldn't, by the logic of things, be academics. And I think this assembly really has a lot of reasons to adopt this amendment. The state may be bankrupt, but it's not so bankrupt that it can't pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37379	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37380	I will make my contribution to my fellow Shami to provide decent compensation, because, as defined by Article 15, they are indeed hypocritical, and I will make a concrete proposal. I'll talk about this subject, which I'm just going to start now, in the day for parliamentary matters, but I want to let the public know that there is money, if anywhere else, in the Republic Health Insurance Office. I thank you for the quick answer to the question I received from the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic, that he has already launched an investigation into how free funds are used in the province's branch, from which the funds are, having reasonable doubts, financed local elections. But I've come up with even more interesting, more fragrant data. I'll give you just a report from Official Messenger number 5, where the most favourable offer for the procurement of personal documents based on polycarbons has been announced, so that you can see how science is commercialized and abused, where the job of making new health legislation is assigned to the National Bank of Serbia, the Office for making bills and coins, without publishing a public call and without calling any other bidder to get a job, where something that is worth approximately, making one ID, three to five euros, is determined to be worth twice as much. So, only at one job, where the monopoly has a banknote-making and forged money, that's what we called it, it's pure profit, past real costs -- I'm speaking publicly in a microphone -- 35 million euros. It is money that will be paid from the Republic Health Insurance Institute, not for the fees of academics, and then will be charged by citizens of Serbia. By analogy, how they were made ID cards, where the actual cost does not exceed three euros per ID card, and it is charged 10 euros, of which the interior ministry, which is doing this job, has not a single cent. All profits remain with the Bureau for making bills. This same organization, which is controlled by the National Bank, must do excise stamps, all prescriptions for health care, all health regulations to which we pay those stickers and stick as an overa, even the job of printing all insurance policies for all insurance companies. Whether this organisation really has to do it or whether it is about the kind of abuse of powers measured by the profits of illegal public procurement, increased costs and close to the figures of 100m euros will have to be dealt with. What I'm talking about right now is the next thing. What we call the salt of science and the mind of this country has two and a half times an increased salary as a monthly fee, I am talking about academics, and what is called a bold abuse of funds on behalf of the state and allegedly establishing criteria with the EU, chips and similar, earns hundreds of millions of euros, not accounting anyone. The worst, and so much profit, I say responsibly, has not been transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget to any single dinar or euro. On the contrary, you have had the opportunity to hear here that I am reading to you the minutes of the National Bank Council, in which representatives of various parties participate, but motivated by the compensation they receive as members of the Council, together they agree not to transfer to the budget or the dinar, because they have positive differences that have not been realised, and as such they could not be transferred to the budget. Gentlemen Ministers, you can leave holes in the budget to be unsuccessful, but while you have a National Bank that has its own coin, which, using the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and the commercialization of science, lies that this can only be done by this organization, hundreds of millions of euros go somewhere. Where? - I'll ask a parliamentary question in the day for it. And now I tell my colleagues to Shami – there is money for compensation to academics, except those in this country, like in this and in other places, are not properly distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37381	Thank you. A colleague of Martinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the U.S.S. The mosque is perfectly acceptable, and we'll be in voting day to support it. If SANU is by definition, as is written in the bill, the most significant scientific and artistic institution in the Republic of Serbia and if it really serves the general good Serbian people and all Serbian citizens, then I really think it is appropriate for the members of SANU, both regular and correspondence, to have adequate compensation for this status of academics. We believe that the amount proposed by Mr. Zoran Shami is quite acceptable and there is no economic argument why Mr. Shami's amendment should not be accepted. I cannot agree that there is no money in the Republic of Serbia for adequate cash compensation to SANU members, but there is money for the government to count 25 ministers in the Republic of Serbia and to have dozens of different agencies, which do nothing more than make up the state budget. I can't believe there's no money in the country that's made, unfortunately, two governments, one in Belgrade and the other in Novi Sad, and now he's getting ready to make governments in both Novi Pazar and Nis and Valjevo and who knows where. So there's money for the clerks, there's money to throw in the wind, but when it comes to paying the proper adequate compensation to the members of SANU, which, as you heard from Mr. Shami, there's not so much, then suddenly the money is gone. Today, Mr. Minister, your colleague Mr. Djelic explained in particular the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Action, and several times today and several days ago, he stated that the state of Serbia, or its government, intends to invest large funds in the development of science, that it is in the interests of Serbia, in the interests of its citizens, that we must do so in order to engage in world scientific and technological flows, but when you have a concrete example of investment in science, then you say – there is no money. Believe me, Mr. Minister, it's better to invest this money in living people, in living scientists, in living artists, than in writing some meaningless strategies that serve nothing. We have great scientists from all fields of science -- both social and natural and technical sciences and medicine -- and these people are ready to put their vast knowledge into service of the progress and development of the Serbian state. Then why, at least partially, not respect them in this financial aspect and give them adequate compensation? Believe me, this is no significant amount for the state of Serbia and its budget. The state of Serbia has the money, but there is not enough hearing in the government for the real importance of science. To us today is one MP of the DS, talking about various things, about gas lines, about how we ruled for 20 years, etc. (which, of course, is all notorious nonsense), among other things, has shifted as we reportedly from the SRS, because we are uneducated, primitive, uncultural, anti-European, etc., preventing and pushing clips into points of the European, democratic, reform government of Serbia to invest significant funds in Serbian science. Here, we now suggest that you invest money in living people, in those who can today contribute both to the scientific and technological and economic development of Serbia, and you reject it. This means that your intention to sincerely work on the well-being of Serbian science does not exist, that it is false, that it exists only when media statements are to be made or when laws should be explained. But when you are specifically offered a kind of investment in Serbian science, which is the most economical, which is the most efficient, which brings results today, you reject it. This means that you don't care about science either, and as you can see, if you refuse this amendment, you won't care about the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37383	Mr. Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37384	In addition to this, I would only like to give one form of information, as explained today by the minister who defended the law before this. It says this - of the 200 million loans taken for science 70m euros is for repairing existing capacities; for the development of human capital - 33m euros (Petnica research station, Campus Mathematical High School and a new centre for promotion of science in Belgrade); for development of centres of excellence and academic research centres - about 60m euros; for the development of infrastructures in the domain of information and communication technologies from 50m euros to 80m euros (campus for the universities of technical sciences in Belgrade, Niš and Kragujevac - about 30m euros; for basic infrastructure projects of around 80m euros (the creation of an economy based on knowledge, through the construction of scientific and technological parks in Belgrade, Novi Sad, and the Ministry of Technology for Technology). So a total of 353m euros. Compared works, 30m euros have been invested in equipment within 10 years of the government's rule, of which around 27m euros in the last three years. Look at these numbers, as they are invested in scientific research, and now, when they are given to these people, and not for equipment that can be untapped, we say - we have no money. I just wanted to give you a comparison between investments in those things that can be misused and those that cannot be abused, which are living people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37385	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga submitted to the 18th amendment. Mr. Zoran Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37386	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this amendment, and it is strange that those who have submitted such an amendment, and for the public's sake, I will read what the proposal for an amendment is, these five LSV MPs. They suggest that a member of the 18th draft law be deleted completely, and this member reads: ''Academia has an Academy Office based in Novi Sad. The Academy's branch is an organisational part of the Academy. The Statute of the Academy organizes the internal organization and work of the Branch of the Academy.' Their proposal to delete this member, i.e. For the closure of this branch, it is justified that the adoption of the Statute of the Duke's official existence and work of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts and that this branch of SANU should not exist in the AP Vojvodina. I think that this is a very dangerous intention and that it should concern the entire scientific public, first and foremost in Vojvodina, and all who have supported the adoption of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and have given consent to the Statute of Vojvodina, which is the official work of VANU. To seek to shut down a branch that has existed there for years, where very prominent scientific workers work and work, primarily from the field of AP Vojvodina, such as the academic Kovacevic, who is the president of this department, or academicist Cedomir Popov, the prominent historian and president of the Mother of Serbia, who, for a reason and announced last week, was in the means of information, in a written medium, where he warned our entire public about the policy of the current leadership of Vojvodina and where he is heading and how actively he is working to separate the AP Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia. Here, in about two months, it has already been shown that all of us who have been in the process of discussing and adopting these laws have pointed out the dangers that can follow after the adoption of the Law on the Delegation and Confirmation of the Statute were absolutely right and that the people who are leading the policy in Vojvodina, as well as the Vojvodina Academy itself, are actively working to demonstrate separatism, but also in some way sharing scientific space and everything else that has happened in some years that have followed us and have been brought back to some normal state, and is once again going to those processes that have been. As a confirmation, it is one of the major projects that the Vojvodina Academy is doing to create the Duke's Encyclopedia. The preface of the encyclopedia states that it will be introduced to the prominent figures of the science and culture of Vojvodina. He goes on to say, "We will bring complete portraits of individuals who have contributed to what makes up a spiritual and material building today called the modern European region of Vojvodina, which has long and patiently been built." That's what it says in the preface of the Duke's Encyclopedia. If you look at who makes editors and expert editors, I must say that there are also a number of prominent scientific students and academics, but there are also tough and proven autonomists, whose work in such a project is certainly not absolutely well-intentioned. I can only mention some names here: Professor of the Faculty of Philosophy Milenko Perović, Professor Ranko Končar, Professor of the Faculty of Agriculture Veselin Lazić, Duško Radosavljevic (who doctored in 2000), Professor Ljiljana Subotić, Professor Marijana Pajvančić and Dimitria Boarov, journalist and publicist, etc. So these are just some of the personalities that are the editor of this encyclopedia. So, gentlemen, you who are in power, well imagine who you have as a partner, where you are looking for certain political initiatives, some time and seemingly harmless. And this is being treated by a harmless act, just because it's being explained that it's united -- here, we've submitted a few amendments and we'll talk about it, and the background and essence is much more malignant and much more dangerous. I think that it should all concern us and that it is time to say precisely to a team with such intentions, which is, above all, a malignant autonomous policy that will lead to a new division of the Republic of Serbia, that it must stop at the root and cut off all activities that are going towards that end, and one of the amendments submitted under this law is this amendment to Article 18. For me, it's completely expected and normal that the government didn't accept it. Only I ask you all again – how will you vote this bill if these five MPs do not vote for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37387	Mrs. Olena Papuga has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37388	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, I don't know why Mr. Mašić's speech brought to the story of the Vojvodjan Academy of Science when today's theme is the story of amendments relating to SANA. I don't know, too, no right to talk autonomous malignant politics. I don't think it's appropriate for one professor and a doctor to use such terms at all. We know well that the Vojvodina Academy of Science was neither established by the Statute nor came from somewhere when the Statute of the Vojvodina appeared, but that the Vojvodina Academy of Science was accepted by the MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly when, by their act and vote. Of course they also thought about it that the entire assembly of the AP Vojvodina did not just vote for the return of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences. I don't think it's right that Professor Masic was talking about teachers who are respected professors of the University of Novosad. They didn't deserve to be talked about like that. Mostly, academics and professors who are at the Vojvodjan Academy of Sciences are respected professors not only in Vojvodina, but also wider, in Europe, so I would like to pray that today we talk about SAN, not WAN.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37389	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. Mr. Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37390	I'd like a replica of Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37391	There's no basis for replication. You can use the MP's time group. There was nothing offensive. Mrs. Papuga has expressed her view on the issue on the agenda and pointed out how she has experienced your little trip to the Vojvodjan Academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37392	All right, Madam Chairman, I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. I was an authorised representative, so I think I have more time. (President: You have plenty of time.) No problem, then I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. I mentioned WANA because they were just explaining to delete this member that the Vojvodina Academy was founded and that there was no need to exist there by some two Academy of Sciences. Their intention is clear and the background of why they are looking for it, because there is now a Vojvodjan Academy, which was again established in 2004 by the decision of the District of Vojvodina Assembly, when the president of the assembly was Mr Nenad Canak. But certainly he did not vote it himself, but the decision of the majority then established that academy. I certainly have the right to have my own opinion on this academy and the people who are elected there and I have a very great respect for a number of people who have been elected to that academy, to mention just some names - Professor Rudolph Casttoria, Professor Pope, Leovac, etc., but also, as a university professor, I have absolutely the right to have some others I don't think they deserve to have an academic call. Also, if you are contesting the need to act as academics Kovacevic or academia Popov, and certainly I have an exceptional opinion, not to mention the sublime opinion of those people who are members of SANU, who work and work not only in Novi Sad and the Vojvodina area, but also here in Belgrade, and are elected to SANU, I ask you only – why did you do parallelism and why do you now want something that is, in my opinion, more quality (I have the right to think so) you want to shut down, shut down, and to develop something that is not, again, in my opinion, the interest of the Serb people and other peoples who live and work in the field of Vojvodina and all of Serbia? Therefore, I have the right to express my opinion. I may have used too many words, I don't know, maybe malignancy, but I belong to the medical brand and something that undermines, something that eats inside me was so familiar, so I qualify. If I have hurt you and everyone else who has found themselves hurt, I apologize, but the bottom line is that such a request for the closure of this department is not good, it is not the interest of Serbian science, culture and tradition, and it cannot be replaced by SANU for a long time, or be close to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37393	Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS fully respects the arguments made by Mr Masic, but I must draw attention to Mr Masic that what he is saying now - about the Statute of Vojvodina, about the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, about the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts - is not in line with the official policy of the party to which Mr Masic belongs. Namely, in the daily newspaper "Blic" since 24 December 2009, the president of the party said in talks with representatives of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and that this daily paper also conveyed that SVM has no need to fear coming to the power of the SNS because Tomislav Nikolic has no intention of changing the Statute of Vojvodina, which has received confirmation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps, Mr. Masic, your intimate opinion is such that you really do, and I welcome it if so, that in Vojvodina there is malignancy, that the Statute of Vojvodina is harmful, that the existence of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts is harmful, but the official position of the party you belong to is that it will all remain if your party comes to power. And when everything is summed up and taken away, there is no difference compared to Vojvodina, compared to the Statute of Vojvodina, according to so-called "Vojvodina". VANU between DS, LSV and SNS. Politics is identical. They differ verbally, but in essence, political relations are identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37395	Mr. Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37396	I would like to respond to Mr. Masic's discussion on the objection why fellow Social Democrats of the Vojvodina League have made such an amendment. I can tell you my position as MEP G17 plus – we are not in favour of abolishing the New Sad branch, but we were neither against the establishment of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. This protective performance of the SNS towards our Serbian nation and the constant fear that the Serbian Corps will be ruined by the formation of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, which is an expression of the internal need in one historical and cultural autonomy, and on the other hand, and the relationship that we create in such discussions is not good because I have the impression that the discussion is focused on why the MPs who submitted it have submitted this amendment. I know that they can defend themselves much better, and there's no need for anyone to defend them, and it kind of smells like something from ten years ago, when we were asking and looking in every corner if someone was against Serbian national interests. So I would ask my fellow MPs to focus on a debate about the law, and I expect people to fight for their amendments without such safeguards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37397	Thank you. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37398	This amendment refers to something that would be the SANU's internal organisation. What I have already pointed out, and I will have to read in order to be absolutely clear, the current legislative proposal has designed the existence of an in-house body, that is President SANU, and there are collegiate bodies, which are the Presidency and the Executive Board. However, what is the essence of this amendment, which is based on these current problems which, apparently, the Academy has? One of the members of the proposed law states that the SANU Presidency is an authority implementing what the SANU Assembly adopts, and on the other hand, the next article says that the Executive Board is the Executive Body of the Presidency and the Assembly. The other problem in this legal solution is that the same people are members of both the Presidency and the Executive Board. To read the explanation of why the amendment to Article 29 was rejected: ''Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is contrary to a solution that has existed for decades. The Academy, among other things, is a traditional institution with a long institutional memory and therefore should not, without a very strong reason, and with the consent of the Academy itself, change what is accepted at the Academy... 'I've already pointed out, these arguments are problematic. There's a positive and negative tradition. What was the intensity of this amendment is that through a different position of the Executive Board of the Academy the circle of people who influence decision-making in the Academy, because I express a very well-intentioned concern, which is the objective problem of the Academy – its hermetization and one dose of autism. We have an obvious problem, which is escalating every time academics are elected. I'm afraid we have a few, a dozen authorities who decide everything at the Academy. My wish was, as an MP, to upgrade the law like this, to open capacity for more academics to participate in the creation of what is the work of the Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37399	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. The word doesn't want anyone. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. No one wants a word. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I find he's become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I find he's become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Goran, would you like a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37400	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that the government has accepted this amendment, and the amendment itself concerns the financing of SANU. Given the other laws, I have to say that there is an interesting situation here, the promoter was very brief. As far as funding is concerned, he's only given two members. Article 44 refers to sources of funding and one of the sources of funding is, of course, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and other sources are alloys, gifts, etc., while Article 45 refers to spending, i.e. the distribution of these funds. In Article 45, the promoter gave one position that says: "The Academy's funds are determined and deployed by the Academy's financial plan, in accordance with the law". This is where I suggested adding another point of view. That would be attitude 2, which would read: "Academia, in accordance with the law, has its own resources." It is normal for one such respected institution and institution as the Academy of Science to have autonomy on all the more important issues of its work, and also on the spending of financial resources, and if we want to in some way control of spending, then some of the sublegal acts that would further prescribe control mechanisms and spending of these funds should be added here. So this attitude is accepted and I think it should be a practice for the opposition to be accepted in the future, because we all have the same interests when it comes to SANU.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37401	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami to article 49. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37402	Before I move on to this amendment, let me just say that the government has the final goal of accepting the amendment to Article 15. I suppose the present minister can't do that at this time, but I ask you to consider and consult by tomorrow, when a debate under the fourth law will continue. I think the arguments are more than reasonable, and if you continue to maintain the position you have now, then there is nothing left for me than to address the majority in this House to follow the example of their colleagues sitting in the Committee on Science and Technological Development and to support this, I think, with a very good intentional amendment. In Article 49, this has to do with this amendment, but, in the extreme line, even if that amendment is not accepted, our proposal is far too high and I don't know why the government didn't accept it. In fact, you have, as already provided for by the transitional provisions, predicted that these fees should be applied to academics as of 1 January 2011. The amendment asked that the words "beginning on 1 January 2011" be changed in words: "from the adoption of the first budget rebalancing, i.e. from the adoption of a new budget". The moment when legal conditions are created that funds can be provided, no matter how much they amount (it will be less if the DSS amendment is rejected, and it will be more if the amendment is adopted, but nevertheless it is realistically small), that those funds must be provided in case, for example, we have a budget rebalance in which month, which is (it seems to me, I apologize) more than certain, and in the end, from the moment the new budget is adopted, because unfortunately, in the current budget, the money was not for it. It was for everything and everything, but it's not for that. Please consider, in addition to the amendment to Article 15, the amendment to Article 49 and the statement that you will accept these amendments tomorrow. In the end, allow a few more sentences in general. I will repeat what I said in the debate in principle. It's a good thing we're passing a law on the Academy of Science. It is good that in the good part of the provisions there is a space left for the Academy of Sciences to determine and solve the various details of how it will function on its own. I think that, generally speaking, is good. Of course, by accepting the amendments that you've already accepted and those that you could still accept, I think we could, at the very least, get an understandable and decent SANA law. I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37403	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37404	I would call my address this time a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and in fact, President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, I would ask you to call the masters and provide them with a ladder to repair this clock standing here, and in accordance with Article 27. Because even though time is a relative category so sometimes we go slow, when we wait for something, and sometimes, when we're happy, we go fast, it's still a measurable category. Since this watch here is incomparable with the watches that are updated on our computers and the handwatches we wear, I say that this clock is not working properly tonight, and because of the desire to move to the next item of the agenda, I would ask you to keep that clock in line with the usual time in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-18-0.u37405	With the agreement with you that time is a relative category, I must conclude that, in accordance with Article 85, we have extended the work until the end of the point and are just finishing today's work. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours per item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on geographical indications. Thank you for your cooperation. I thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you to the co-workers of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I have information that at 10.00 p.m., 85 MPs were present. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I've given the signal again, please insert the cards again. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Mladen Grujic and Dr Nikola Krpic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development Dr. Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I have called for the sittings to attend: Prof. Dr. Milos Nedeljković and Prof. Dr. Snezana Pajović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, Nevenka Novaković, Radmila Skokić, Katarina Petrovic and Nada Mijatović, advisers at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Mirela Boskovic, Assistant Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Tags of the GEOGRAPHIC ORIGIN (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Dusan Marić, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Vitomir Plužarević, Radiša Ilic, Dragan Stevanović, Milorad Krstin, Milan Avramović, Srboljub Živanovic, Slađan Mijaljevic, Milan Škrbić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Vladan Jeremic, Dusanka Plecevic, Nemanja Šarović, Nikola Savić, Zoran Šami, and the amendment of the Committee for Science and Technological Development. You have received reports from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
