ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43798	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, today the National Assembly should appoint one deputy secretary general of the Serbian Parliament. We were expecting another candidate, but we saw that the secretary general withdrew his decision to appoint another candidate. The Assembly today will use one of its functions, which is its electoral function, to select a state official. Looking at the proposal for appointment, we see in the explanation that the former deputy secretary general resigned on 26 March and, normally, under the Law on the National Assembly, Article 34, and by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today we should choose a new or new deputy general secretary of the Assembly. But one thing I don't understand is, for four months, this assembly was meant to elect a man to assist Mr. Veljak Odalovic in the work of the Assembly. I think this is a precedent, that it should have, and we at the DSS expected you to react without delay, that the moment Mr. Pudard resigned, you would deliver the names of the candidate, one or two, and that the Assembly would choose the deputy secretary general and thus show the seriousness of the ruling coalition. You have not done so, and that is why you have been able to cause many legal repercussions. You could've slowed down the work of the Assembly. In fact, since you haven't had a deputy secretary-general in four months, you have, as I said, been able to challenge certain legal repercussions and thus disprove the very function of the deputy secretary-general. Let's explain to Serbian citizens how the secretary general is elected. At the first, constitutive session, when our mandates are verified, when the president of the Assembly is elected, when the vice-presidents of the Assembly are elected, the Secretary-General, whose obligation is certainly to assist in the work of the President of the Assembly, to assist in the work of the vice-presidents of the Assembly, to prepare the sessions, to take care of the conclusions and decisions of the National Assembly. Normally, the secretary general also has his deputies, which allows him the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, and he of these two deputies can appoint one who will change him in absentia. I want to explain to you why we think you could have caused legal repercussion since you didn't choose within the time limit, i.e. On time, Deputy Secretary General. During that period, all the work was done by Mr. Veljko Odalovic. Mr. Veljko Odalovic could have gotten sick, resigned, emigrated from the country. I'm sorry, Mr. Odalovich, I don't want to cause a replica, but all of this could have happened. And who could do the job? No one, because Mr. Veljko Odalovic has not authorized anyone to do this on his behalf. So we had a four-month gap. We did not have a deputy secretary-general, and in this way we were able to slow down the work of the Assembly and slow down the road to the EU, which certainly does not suit you. I'd like to talk to you about the candidates. Since we see that one candidate's candidacy has been withdrawn, we have another candidate. It's about Mr. Mladen Mladenovic, who was born in 1979. The law school ended in 2008, at the age of 28, and it's not much of an expert, but it's certainly some party staff. In fact, he's 31 now, and after three years he's supposed to be in one high position, and that's the deputy secretary general, and we're afraid this is a political deal, that DS has put pressure on coalition partners to host some of his staff here. Believe me, Mr. Odalovich, it's not an accident that they're setting up these people. It's to monitor your work, see how you do, how you spend your budget. Because, believe me, great attention has also caused this renovation of the exterior and interior of the National Assembly and the Democratic Party, as the party who, he said, took responsibility, tends to control all possible resors. What's unclear, Mr. Odalovic, is that we don't see here in the draft decision on what his salary will be and whether it's projected by the budget, and we know that we've adopted the budget. Whether his personal income was projected and, if so, we'd like to know. Or, at the moment you file a report to the Committee, which you have to do every three months under the new Law on the National Assembly, we will have insight into exactly what I was talking about. I also wanted to ask you for something on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. You sent a letter to all the parliamentary clubs, including us, to draft the budget for next year and we have a seven-day deadline, from 21st to 28th. We would ask you to extend that deadline, because in this period we really won't have time, not just for us, but for the other parliamentary groups, since there is a big break. I don't think it's too bad to postpone that deadline, so the parliamentary groups can adequately prepare their budget. What is characteristic of us, too, is that this assembly and this ruling majority passed a law on reducing the administration at the republican and local level, and we are now receiving a new civil servant. You, in fact, are breaking those laws you've passed. And you remember how Mladjan Dinkic here defended those laws, and in the meantime many jobs, especially in some regional agencies, opened up. What we're trying to say is that you shouldn't violate those laws that you've already passed. I assume the ruling majority has agreed their views on the candidate (there were two, now one) to Mr. Mladenovic and that you will vote him today. In fact, miracles were happening in this congregation. We've had candidates for some agency functions, some boards, some boards, and we've seen here that you have no political agreement and that you haven't voted for certain officials. I'm afraid that's not the way it is. I hope you have agreed, because Mr. Veljak Odalovic and how he needs a man who will replace him in absentia, to whom he will transfer his powers, who will assist the president and vice presidents of the Assembly. So, to conclude this word of mine, my discussion. Simply, we must say that the ruling majority should have acted without delay as soon as Mr. Pudar, mentioned here several times, resigned and selected a new deputy secretary and man to be authorised by Veljko Odalovic to replace him in absentia. This is about you doing everything you're doing, doing a verse, not a plan. We wish the future candidate a lot of success in the work, and we hope that he will adequately replace Mr. Odalovic and help you, President, and vice presidents in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43799	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about one usual proposal to hire two workers, now, as far as I hear it, there's only one job left, and what we can say about candidates, because it's hard for anyone, unless they know them, to say any word, only, unlike some cases, in this case his age somehow justify being employed. Because I remember last year (and it was, I think, one of the examples of the abuse of power) in the Serbian Parliament employed a certain Mr. Vicentijevic, called Vica, at 63 years of age. He may be older now, but he was 63 when he applied to the competition. I guess if it was a contest, nothing would be done here without a competition. It is particularly interesting that he applied for a place where he should have had a certain exam to be passed. That exam was supposed to be passed a few months ago, a month or two or three. I even asked if he laid down what he was, whether he was being followed by that development, etc. Unfortunately, to this day I have not received an answer, so we do not know if Mr. Vicentijevic has passed the exam so that he could work at the place where he is employed and I would pray that I get that answer, because I assume that this candidate who is to be employed will be all in accordance with the law. This is one of the very interesting areas and a rather problematic topic when it comes to our country and our society. Unfortunately, we have about a million unemployed in our country and that is one of the biggest problems that is expected to be solved by some serious government. It is obvious that in the past ten years no one has taken this problem seriously, except when it comes to party staff, or party members. Some parties are subject to the rule – how many workbooks, how many membership cards. This unrelenting heat continues day and day. In order to get a job, especially when it comes to state administration, the first condition is that you have a good relationship, someone in power, and the other one you can access to a party that's in power and only then can you count on employment. What's very important to us right now, is to remember those two laws we've passed, one related to rationalization at the republican level and one related to the rationalization of employees in local self-government. It would be interesting to get information about how this law was implemented and what we can expect. I think for the past ten years you have succeeded something that I never believed could happen – not only to confirm Orwell, but to overcome it. Everything you say practically has the opposite meaning. It simply lies in your being, that's your character. You're on your way, let's say, when it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government, to perform rationalization and now I'm interested in how far that rationalization has taken place. There's an interesting piece of information. If you look at it, local self-government was largely in the hands of some of the parties belonging to DOS by 2000 or in a significant number of cities in Serbia. I'll only tell you the biggest cities: Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac. It reflects your character, in which way you abuse power. In these three cities, the surplus staff was 1,240 – in Belgrade 585, in Nis 518 and in Kragujevac 240. Should a better example show your character and character of your authority? So as soon as you got to power, you looked to use it by abusing it and hiring the maximum number of grandmothers, aunts, uncles, aunts. I remember when you came to power in 2001, it just couldn't be from relatives, women and other family members to live. Only in the government, I remember, Zoran Zivkovic, the minister, and his wife, the secretary of the government. Well, the Bajec brothers, so I can't remember now, I've forgotten exactly how many there are, but that list is even published in the paper. Then the question arises how can you convince anyone of anything and that in any way the citizens of Serbia can expect anything from you. Remember what Boris Tadic promised in the presidential elections, to employ more than 500,000 workers. And then, next, he'll hire 200,000 workers. Now we have 700,000 registered at the Employment Bureau. We have over 900,000 Serbian citizens living below the existential minimum. We are a country where people's cuisines are opening up to their misery, because we don't have a chance or we're not ready for it either, and I remember many of the institutions that have been dealing with trying to solve some of these problems. One of those institutions was the Office of the President of the Republic, I don't know if she had 40 or how many employees, and I don't even know if there were any results. You simply do not inform us of these grand results, and it would be good for the citizens of Serbia to know what the situation is on this issue now. Here's to remind ourselves, in 2000, a little less than 9,000 people were employed in the state administration. In December 2003, there were 28,000 people. When a law on the rationalisation of the republican administration was passed in 2009, there was something in the state self-government about 31,500 (up and down, it is not important at all) and you decided to carry out rationalization by bringing the number of employees in the republican administration down to 28,000. So that number since 2003, because you're sure that you've hired almost all of your staff, by giving 10% of that number to be employed by the labour contract or otherwise. When you recalculate 10% from 31,000 to 28,000, that's about, I guess, that number that the government hired from 2004 to 2009. You're going to exorcise them, and you're going to receive yours through various visions, from work contracts to copyright fees, etc. I'm asking the same question now, to get an answer, as far as the rationalization of the republican self-government is concerned. Because I just don't think you've done anything. You used both of these laws to either fire unthinkers or deal with insubordinate personnel within your own parties, those who have been kidnapped. Some of you even arrested, such as Mr. Knezevic, although he was then named the city's best president in Serbia, the road to Europe was open to us, but eventually it turned out that hundreds of thousands of euros crossed his hands. He claims it just crossed his hands, maybe something stuck, I'm not gonna say anything, but most of it went to DS. What's interesting about the witness statements we had the opportunity to hear, all those donations were during the presidential campaign. The process, however, is under way. It's obvious that you'll be able to reach some kind of agreement, which will probably mean covering all things, that he's silent, that he's not saying anything, that he's either experiencing obsolescence or getting rid of himself in any other way, because in the last 10 years, there's nothing to deal with corruption and crime. You absolutely don't care. What is much worse and that, in some ways, will have much more serious consequences, is what you are doing with the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to invite you to take it and read the police file. You will see there, from a report by officials or informants of the State Security Service, which was then fought by the opposition, which was fought by the SRS, DSS, DSS, the SPO and what our main objectives were. (Srdjan Milivojevic: Is there a "Resistance"? They still had you tied up at the time. One of the main things was the possibility for Parliament to give more space to the opposition. The Rules of Procedure, which was adopted in 1994, was compared to this Rules of Procedure of Democracy, and we were struggling to amend the Rules of Procedure. We fought for public television broadcasts. What about public television? They're public at three or four o'clock at night. It is interesting, whenever they appear, or to the greatest extent when the MPs of the SRS speak, the transfer is interrupted and it will be postponed. I'm surprised that wasn't the day before yesterday, when we discussed the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. How come that day's transmission can last all day and sometimes it can't last even a few hours? You have today reduced the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to some preschool facility. Depending on the character or nature of those who chair the Assembly, you have reduced the MP to being without any rights. The chairman estimates absolutely everything, whether it's a theme or not. Not all of them, there's more tolerable, but there's also those who lack a coat. They've got mustaches and everything, they're just missing a coat. For by the way they lead the congregation, it is God’s preserver. And you expect to achieve some reconciliation, which is what you stand for, and to run some processes in this society. You should remember some things. There were parties who expelled MPs from the Assembly. It was, as you like to say, the time of dictatorship, until 2000. So one minute, even though it was unimaginable that something could happen in 2000, it happened. You know, there comes a time when bills have to be paid. Our people say – what is not paid on the bridge is paid on the pot. But that's when it's paid collectively, for everything that's been done, and I'm sure because of all this you've done in the past 10 years, one day in front of Serbian citizens, you'll be held accountable, because they will decide with their votes that you haven't fulfilled their promises. Not only did you not keep their promises, but you deceived them hard. One of the most important areas for this country that you have failed to do anything about is the fight against corruption and crime. The best example is the Republika Srpska Assembly. There's an institution here that you've reduced to a minimum, asking questions that the state authorities, as a rule, would have to answer. You are aware of how many questions are raised in this congregation, and there is no answer to this day, and there is a huge crime at stake. It's just amazing. Why don't I get an answer to the question of whether a partial balance has been made in the NIP? What's the problem? What kind of force should order me to get that answer? Why don't I get it? You know why? Because it's a robbery. It's a hell of a robbery. "News", the "Borba" sales network, the "Borba" press, the "Borba" list. What's particularly interesting, whose money is in that privatisation? I keep asking how some criminals are privileged and some are not. They're being trampled by basic human rights then. If you take away one criminal's property, why not take away another? What is the difference between Stanko Subotic Canet and the Saric brothers? They were just dealing with various criminal activities, as far as I know. One of them was smuggling tobacco, and the other one was smuggling narcotics. What difference does that make? Both are crime. This is what you take property and this is nothing. For what? Because Stanko Subotic Canet's money is involved with tycoons and involved with politicians. Exzemplar, criminals, tycoons and politicians, who made it possible to rob state property, and you keep your mouth shut. Except when they fight each other over the share of prey, we don't have any other information. Until Miskovic and Milka Forcan hooked up, did anyone refrain from mentioning anything? No one. You can't say anything because they have you in their hands. Just like Stanko Saturday Cane has you. He said he gave you 10m euros in 2010. Driving the Prime Minister, it was for nothing, it was an honor, but said he gave 10m euros. He told the other party he gave 500,000 euros. I don't think he's lying, because according to the information he went out with... He's not lying at all, because it turned out on the "News" case that so much money is not given for nothing and not given without proof. So I'm not sure Stanko Saturday Cane is lying, I'm sure that's why you can't open the affair. What is particularly interesting, when the affair on the Saric brothers began, then the State Secretary of Justice said – this may also make the government fall. (President: Time. Thank you. I'm done. I wonder why. Either Slobodan Homen should resign because he has deceived Serbian citizens or... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43801	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43802	Dear President, I am now using the time of the chief of Parliament's club, although I would like to point to the really harshest violation of the Rules of Procedure that has been allowed here, at this time. So not only is it allowed to talk about something that has nothing to do with the subject, but it's allowed to be insulted in the most cruel way by people who have nothing to do with this subject, nor have anything to do with what they're being accused of here. I really ask that, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, we allow even such a pointless debate on the deputy secretary to run in tone and with words that do not violate the Rules of Procedure. Here, of course, is the opportunity for people to be accused of things with which they have nothing to do with abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I just want to say that Zoran Djindjic has his willingness to deal with organised crime paid for his life, and I think that whoever has at least a little courtesy in them would never say something like that right now. Maybe it's trying to hide something else. Perhaps he is trying to cover up the question of how it is possible that Serbia was a minefield in 2000 when it comes to organised crime, primarily because the state structures and various parts of the state government were not only involved in crime, but were bearers of the same crime. I think it's actually a desperate attempt by those who don't have a political theme, who have no argument of imposing an issue that is in this society by fighting more successfully with organised crime than they've ever fought before, and by recognising valid international institutions. Maybe that's what some, who are political opponents of this government, are quiet and painful, because if this country gets recognition for what it's doing, then it's obvious to those who would make this country the worst in the world not to contribute, because that's how they get away with what's the only argument in their barren political story. And who's going to beat who, they're showing all the re-elections. So, all the re-election shows that this ruling majority has the support of Serbian citizens, and that those who claim to be convincing in their argument do not cross the censorship. That might be the best response for the citizens. Just because some of the things that were brought out here are completely unargumented, which the secretary can't defend because he doesn't have the right to speak, I want to say a few things. So, the Assembly has an obligation to choose the deputy secretary. Any rationalisation does not mean the removal of the deputy secretary's post, since it is necessary that the Assembly has deputies in view of the scope of the work and responsibilities that the Secretary-General has, not only in organising sessions and conducting congregation activities, but also in organising and managing the services. I just need to say that, so it doesn't turn out that someone here, not taking care of the need to streamline costs, is proposing something that isn't necessary. This is necessary. Speaking of rationalization, I just want to remind you that we've rationalized, among other things, by breaking the contracts that were made with individual party friends that we found here. I'm only going to say one expense. One of those contract advisers spent 10,000 euros on a mobile phone within a month. At the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, before we entered this assembly and took control and responsibility, a single associate spent more on official travel than all congregation delegations combined. So we broke it off. We had full control of all costs, we rationalized all costs, we abolished all unnecessary costs, among other things, and the teams that were enormous and uncontrollable, etc. Rationalisation cannot be done at the expense of this institution and anyone who tries to turn it into something that is unnecessary, is actually trying to reduce the importance of this institution. There was also a notorous untruth, i.e. the deliberately clouded facts, providing alleged information about the employment of 9,000 people in the administration in Serbia in 2000 (I repeat, I do not want to deal with whether the figures are correct) and that there are now 28,000. But what someone deliberately overlooks is that Serbia didn't have an army, and now it has, that Serbia didn't have outside jobs, and now it has, that Serbia didn't have Customs, and now it has, that it didn't have the IRS, and now it has. So that Serbia was then part of the federal state and that many competences, and therefore many of the organs it did not have at the time, today it has. The truth is that we have found your relatives and political friends in this congregation, but we have not fired a single professional. Everyone who's been doing a professional job, and today they're in this same congregation. And if you find any relative of us in this congregation, feel free to tell us. I claim to you, not a single relative, nothing in this congregation, nor shall we, while we are responsible for the congregation, be there. As for the issue of fighting organised crime, I want to say that I, like you, have been looking for answers to questions related to the privatisation of "Luke Belgrade" and "Evening News". I assume you've received the answer, as I have received the answer, that there's a pre-criminal procedure going on. So I really expect all the facts to come out, and I am absolutely sure that everyone will be responsible for everything that has the elements of responsibility and what the competent authorities will determine. If someone here resents that we've made it impossible for the opposition to work, that somehow it's always on radicals to break the transmission, so ask yourself, maybe it's because of the total amount of time that's been told here for more than two-thirds of you talking, so sometimes it has to stop on you because, objectively, you're talking the most. If it's an interruption, then it breaks up on you because sometimes you're the only one talking, no one else is talking. So there's no intention of that. The fact is, not only have we not narrowed down any opposition rights, but we have, on the contrary, made the opposition in this House have all possible space for political action. Whenever the opposition shows a constructive approach and a willingness to improve solutions ahead of us together, we have shown this, not only through debates and debates, but also through the adoption of many amendments and support for many amendments whenever they have contributed to better legal solutions. I just want to ask you something. If you don't have a political theme, if you don't know what to tell the citizens, it's not right to tell the truth. That's the first thing. Secondly, it's not right to accuse people who can't defend themselves. This is where you called a man who's neither guilty nor debtor is in the whole story. It's not right to make enmity with people who have nothing to do with anything but seem to be able to serve you well to allegedly create some kind of political platform. No serious political idea, no serious political debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43803	Thank you. (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. There is no basis for replication. (Dragan Todorovic: Then I want to get a word in the time of the parliamentary group. ( ) Within the time of the parliamentary group you can. Here you go. Although you're not registered, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43804	Don't use those formalities like that. I think I'm the head of the parliamentary group yet, unless you've replaced me. Okay, maybe it's them, but they didn't let me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43805	No, no, we're not. We're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43806	Okay. Mrs. Kolundjia, I must tell you that you lack logic. As far as the stables are concerned, I wasn't thinking about you. So you had absolutely no reason to recognize yourself here. (Hope of Kolundji: Remind him.) What's the problem? I don't understand. What's a coat? Shinnel's a piece of clothing, for Christ's sake. But okay, let me get back to the subject. You say, when it comes to crime and criminals and organized crime, it's obvious that some, and I suppose you've been fond of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43807	Mr. Todorovic, you can talk about the subject within the time frame.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43808	I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43809	Don't talk about the subject, you can't use it, you didn't get the right to a replica. You don't have a word. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43810	Why are you taking my word now?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43811	Because you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43812	I'm talking about what Hope Kolundji was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43813	You can't, you didn't get a line. As head of the parliamentary group, you can talk about the subject, about the deputy secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43814	Okay, here, when it comes to the deputy secretary general and when it comes to the person who was employed before that at 63 years of age, maybe that's not true, I may have made an incorrect statement, but I'm still waiting for an answer from the secretary general, and we're going to solve that dilemma, no problem at all. I didn't mean the answer if you were busy. Give it to Nadia Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43815	Mr. Todorovic, for the second time, you're talking about not getting an answer to the question you're talking about right now. That's the answer you got on May 25, 2010, and it's from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43816	It is, that he's employed, but I didn't get an answer whether he passed the state's exam or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43817	Please stick to the subject. You've got the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43818	Please, if I get an answer that he didn't pass the state's exam, then the question is, how could he be employed in a place where he was supposed to have a state exam? And it's my fault for asking questions? That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43819	Mr. Todorovic, on May 25th, you received the following answer: ''In relation to the question you are, on the basis of Article 235. The Rules of Procedure, which were appointed at the First Session of the First Regular Session on 4 March 2010, complemented the notice that was delivered to you on 17 December 2009, concerning the appointment of Milivoj Vicentijevic as assistant secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the head of the sector in the Sector for Organisational and Administrative Affairs at the Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As we have already informed you, Vicentijevic worked in the SFRJ Assembly and the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly from 1 March 1980 to 8 June 2006. (Dragan Todorovic: Does it say that he took severance? ) ''At the start of a working relationship he had passed a trainee's exam for the affairs of an electronic computer centre in the Social Accounting Service. During his work, he passed a professional exam in front of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. Those credentials were in accordance with the applicable rules for the federal authorities. For this reason, the Service of the National Assembly of the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government of the Republic of Serbia has requested an opinion on whether those beliefs can be considered as proof that Vicentijevic has passed a state expert examination. We received a notice from the Ministry stating that the Law on State Administration prescribed that the obligation to pass an expert examination was released from persons with a judicial examination, as well as persons with a professional exam for work in other bodies if the programme of that examination corresponds to the professional examination programme for the staff of the authorities. In light of the assurance submitted on the examination passed by the Social Accounting Service, the Ministry considers that Vicentijevic is exempt from the obligation to pass a state expert examination. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, despite the above, Vicentijevic passed a state expert exam on 9 March 2010. So in writing you got all the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43820	That's not true. Do you have any idea that it was admitted to the SRS parliamentary group? )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43821	This is true, I delivered this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43822	That's not true. I didn't get that answer, like I didn't even get the answer that had given Hope Kolundji, I just got it later. And I would like to ask you, when delivered to the SRS parliamentary group, as a huge amount of material arrives, to respond specifically, and the secretary of the parliamentary group will always sign that the document has been received. I didn't get that answer. Why would I ask a question? Today, I would argue that Vicentijevic took the state exam, that that gave him days off. But still some things I can't understand, my people. I understand Mr. Vicentievich's wish... I don't even know this man, I might meet him in the Serbian Parliament, but I don't know who he's talking about, but why would he lie? You know, you have a C category, and then you go and lay down A category for the engine or B category. Why? What kind of logic is that? Or for professional training? Well, don't. Don't play like that. Please, give me back the time, this time that you've been reading. I hope you don't want the SRS back, I suppose. Or to give you that, it's no problem at all. When it comes to organized crime, I would remind you, Madam President, of some things you haven't forgotten.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43823	No, today you can't talk about the subject that you intend to talk about, but about the topic that's on the agenda. (Dragan Todorovic: It is about the Assembly. You don't have a word. Don't put me in a position to impose sanctions. Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43824	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected today at the session, Mrs Kolundžija, to be your colleague, in fact our colleague Mr. Konstantinovic, and already at the beginning, you have diminished the role of Deputy Secretary General of the Assembly, a relatively young man, who, in 1979, was Mr. Mladenovic, who is proposed here, because absolutely no one said a single word about him. With Nenad Konstantinovic gone, I was expecting you earlier, since you said we should go back to the agenda, that at least you, Mrs Kolundzija, would say something about the person who has, however, all the references to be elected to this function. First of all, I would like to say that as vice president of the Assembly, I was caught by Mr. Bojan Pudara's sudden resignation, which is his personal act, and I would like to thank him on behalf of and on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group for his co-operation, which was extremely correct. I don't really know what his reasons are for resigning, and I expect that with the new deputy secretary general, we will also, in accordance with the business and provisions of the new Law on the National Assembly, have the opportunity to co-operate as well as with the secretary of the National Assembly. In order for the public to know what the position and role of the deputy secretary is, it is called the face of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this, dear fellow MPs, is a great opportunity, although we are so few here, I guess because this is the last working day, after the vote that you will hold so-called. a summer break, to discuss whether we, as MPs, were able to arrange our work in this, your home, where we represent the citizens of Serbia in the best possible way, and for this we cannot bear the responsibility of the secretary, the president of the National Assembly and other individuals, but rather such persons as Mrs Kolundzija, who is the president of the largest parliamentary group, as well as the other heads of Parliament groups, and above all the chairman of the Administrative Committee. I must express a sharp protest on behalf of our parliamentary group (here is my colleague Dejan Mirovic, who is one of the members of the Administrative Board, and our members are also Mr Aleksandar Martinović and Mr Milovanovic) first because of the fact that you took from us, when you stole the mandates from Serbian radicals, and as president of the Administrative Board. Because if the Serbian Radical were the president of the Administrative Board, both Mr. Odalovic and Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, it would be much easier to work and edit the work of the National Assembly. We can appeal to the experiences of many parliaments. We within that so-called. Parliamentary diplomacy, to call it that, and the delegations formed here, we travel to some countries, which are countries that are closer to us, some that are Serbian friends, some that aren't because they take away KIM from us, but in any case we talk about their parliamentary experiences there and how the work of the Assembly is arranged. The work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is indeed arranged at a very low level. For what? Because we do not have our budgets yet, because you have allowed it, because you have allowed the most legislative body, which according to the Constitution of this country to play a supervisory role in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be reduced, or brought down to the lowest possible branches, and then to be collateralized by your reckless actions and inability to defend the integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have called you to national unity and in that sense. Excuse me, please, this is the most representative body of all Serbian citizens. Citizens have transferred part of their sovereignty here to us. Most of the opposition has us Serbian radicals, we are the most responsible in the work of the National Assembly and we use... There's no Mrs. Kolundji, there's only a bag left here and a card until she gets back, and she's breaking the Rules of Procedure because she has to take her card out of the National Assembly Hall, and she's holding sermons here so someone doesn't stick to the subject. So, we as representatives of the people chosen from the order of the SRS, of course, will use our time. Because the Rules of Procedure are so restrictive. First you stole our mandates, so you stole the time to discuss it, so you changed the Rules of Procedure so that the amendment could only be spoken of for two minutes, so you give us a session by emergency procedure in return and then you bring people within professional services and employees of the National Assembly into an incredible situation, that usually on Friday nights, around midnight, very often on Saturdays and Sundays... I'm not talking about us, we're officials, we're elected, the people change us in elections, and we're willing to bear both political and any other responsibility, but why are you harassing these people who work in the service of the National Assembly? You have, and I don't know if you all know it, fellow MPs, because I don't know how much you've been notified within your parliamentary groups, it's a job that should be arranged by the secretary and deputy secretary both with the president of the Assembly and with the College of the Assembly, and above all by the chairman of the Administrative Committee, by people who work for a certain period of administrative work both at the DSS and I don't know right now in the DS. As part of the SRS parliamentary group, you have five persons, one high-school gentleman and four mid-level ladies, who have been working for a certain time for years, have been extended to these contracts, or working within a parliamentary group because they are related to the group, so, like, as long as the mandate of the parliamentary group... Please, these are extremely professional and qualified persons, people who are perfecting themselves and who are making an immeasurable contribution within our parliamentary group. They help us, our parliamentary group, and all MPs who need it, to prepare for the meetings of the working bodies of the Assembly. For what? Because no new systematization has been done, because the Law on the National Assembly has been brought by a year and several days of delay, almost two years, and because we have found ourselves in a situation where, after the collapse, after the secessionist act of Milo Djukanovic and his criminal clicks and what is now called Serbia, what is left in these constipated borders, because you know, we are not just Serbian radicals, these are historical facts, that Serbia is not only what the Republic of Serbia is now, but a unique Serbian state with its cultural, national and ethnic space, which as such existed here, but unfortunately... Not to go back to those days in 1918 and to the wish of Karadjordjevic to be a great king, and not to listen to Nikola Pasic, who told him right here that we should be distracted and that we know what ours is and how far our western borders are... But now, since the historical environment and communism are after it and the restoration of multilaterals in the 1990s, as Mr Todorovic said, is really trying, even though we were opposition to Milosevic's authority to promote parliamentaryism, in the last ten years... Now, I've done a little depression, when you look back, a hundred years of parliamentaryism in Serbia, maybe these are the worst days. It has never been like this, that MPs are brought into a position like this, that they have, in relation to the MPs of the ruling coalition, really the relation of the MPs of the second order. You know, if Mr. Konstantinovic, who came from the Resistance, from this organization that the CIA formed to tear down the regime then, and after the organisation that tried to go to elections as such, then accepted by the DS, now in charge, and if he is even above Mr. Odalovic, he's setting up everything completely here in the Assembly, then what are we here? Here last week was the meeting of the Administrative Committee, some new rules were introduced that violate even the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, if you have to go somewhere, anywhere on the official trip, you have to write to Konstantinović and where you're going and what you put on that day, what you had for breakfast, who you're going to go with, who you're going to meet, and who you're going to write it in your own letters, and sign it. Who is he to do this and thus humiliate the National Assembly? That we have six months here to apply for the SRS MPs to be replaced, which we have the right to do, not to talk about the fact that we brought you and the resignations, which this one did not steal, but the ones we owned (this is another story, which the epilogue will have both in court and in front of the voters) and that the Administrative Board has treated us this way and we have not been able to protect the will of the voters. Secondly, Mr. Odalovic, I speak to you most well-intentionedly, given that I am one of the vice presidents, that's what I've been asked of, we have to resolve at the most recent time, the first status of these people who work this many years for a certain time, and the second to speed up this systematization to facilitate the work of these people, officials and professional associates, in the context of the very important jobs that they expect. So, given that we now have the Serbian Parliament, that we have assumed all competences and obligations both in front of international authorities and that we have permanent delegations within the Assembly, I think ten permanent delegations, we, first of all, do not have a translation service in the Serbian Parliament. The young ladies who are translators who follow both the president and all of us when we travel, of course each of us must have more or less of the basic knowledge of one of those languages spoken there, but those two or three people, as many as there are, work as officers of the Protocol of the Assembly. Is that normal? No, of course not. Once the Assembly, and in times of communists, at the time of the SFRY, when parliamentaryism was played here and when some representatives from six republics and autonomous provinces were elected, had a translation service, and we don't have it. Why don't you look up to the Russian State Duma, which you don't look at and organize... ? We have a group of friendships with the Russian Federation, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic is its president. Mr. Konuzin, the ambassador of the Russian Federation to Serbia, is a great work for us to develop this parliamentary co-operation. We're doing it outside of this institution. Both Mr. Mirović and Mr. Todorovic and Mr. Vukovic, formerly and Mrs. Pop Lazic, and my smallness, we visited the Russian government's debt several times, to see what their experiences were. We have passed more countries and parliaments and, believe me, a more decorated place for Members to work and for a more effective appearance in front of voters there is no Russian State Duma. There are MPs and all the employees of the obligation to, at any moment, and when it is a regular session and when it is not, when there is an important topic on the agenda, or when there is a problem in the state or when an initiative of a faction is launched, as they call it in the framework of the Duma, it is immediately given to the sitting and to consider the issue. The last case, when it comes to Mr. Zhuganov's and Miron's initiatives within the Russian state spirit, to demand the immediate release of our President, Vojislav Seselj, and the abolition of the Hague case. At the same time they met, made a decision, sent it to the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Lavrov naturally reacted. He also reacted to Vitaly Churkin, after a few days at the UN Security Council, that was June 18th, and said it was indeed a terrible violation of human rights, the fundamental rights of a man who has been sitting there innocent for eight years. Has it occurred to you to do so, regardless of what he is president of our political party? Well, he defends the interests of the entire state and the people and future generations there. It takes off our anthema that we are some genocide people, that Serbs are like this or like that. You saw that The Hague broke into a parade and 80 witnesses, in fact, witnessed his defense. And this is your colleague, many of you, who left the congregation benches. I can't look at this right side, not to look at the face of these traitors who forgot what list and how they came to sit in these congregation benches. But Dr. Vojislav Seselj will return. Mrs Djukić Dejanović, Mr Odalovic, you know, with the really very correct cooperation that I have with you personally, above all with President Djukić Dejanovic, I want to tell you that you must listen more to the voice of the opposition and, above all, to those of us who have long-standing parliamentary experience and who have the best intentions. You know, we'll first be told by people, employees of the Assembly, those who have problems, and by writing overtime, who are treated at the end of the month in some free-day fund that they can't take advantage of. You must pay attention that there are single mothers among the employees. You must pay attention to the fact that they are not drivers, who are management drivers, who are obliged to make us in the Assembly titrated and available to us here for 24 hours. If they had to be, and their salary is 18,000 or 20,000 dinars, it doesn't make sense. You must know, fellow MPs, that everything you have for breakfast, lunch, and sometimes dinner, when the Assembly is working late nights, people are also being prepared and served by those who have 15,000 or 20,000 dinars, is that right, who work here and serve the interests of the state at the end of the day, because we're supposed to be representatives of the state and representatives of the people. So if we ourselves don't have a relationship with what our house is here, because we spend a lot more time here, regardless of our political differences, but with members of our families, from whatever ends we come from, or those are people from Belgrade, there's nothing from that job. In view of that, I can only greet and respect such a relationship. After all, the secretary is a political function. If you follow that continuity and it's someone from the family who once did a good job here, I can really just say hello and wish him success in his work, but at the choice of deputy secretary general, we can't fully arrange our work. We must fight much more and let you know, first of all, you, I speak to you, too, President, and to you, Mr. Odalovic, finally and Mrs. Komic, you are part of the government, and to all of you who perform certain functions in this country, to make it known to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that you cannot have such a relationship with the National Assembly. We are the most legislative body here, we must protect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and introduce ourselves through it in the best possible way to all citizens, regardless of who it is for whom it has voted. As for us Serbian radicals, from the first day the first radical entered the Assembly in 1991 after 50 years of communism, it is our President Vojislav Seselj, we have been taught what parliamentary democracy is, how to defend the interests of the people, how to protect parliamentaryism, and we will perform in this spirit and so do we. Of course, until soon return, both to this congregation building and to Serbia, the one who is still impressed by this home and who will, as such, return the extra energy needed by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the vote will be held immediately after the debate on this agenda. According to my assessment, it'll be something after 13.00 hours. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have just been asked here by representatives of the congregation's majority to conduct a meaningful debate. Here I will be handling what you as a congregation service, representatives of the majority, sent to the MPs, on which we could conduct a meaningful debate. You first put this in, which in some way speaks of how important this was to you, as the last item of the agenda in the extraordinary session, but at the same time you waited from March 26th, when Mr. Puddar resigned, to implement the procedure to which you are bound by the Rules of Procedure that you have brought. How important it was for you to have deputy secretaries, says the time period for which we waited for you to send all of this to the congregation procedure. But when you're looking for meaning, here, we're asking you for one meaningful answer. Why, when you put yourself on the table and compare these two biographies, or you-you like to say that, Mrs. Vanka is no longer a candidate, and Mr. Mladen Mladenov is? Compare these two biographies. Here you are calling for the need to restrict the work of the Assembly, and when you look at these two biographies, they are objectively incomparable. Without question at all this Mr. Mladenovic, his quality or any reference to do the job, but based on what you sent from the authorities to us, we are looking for a meaningful answer – why is the lady no longer a candidate and the gentleman remains a candidate? We believe the secretary in organising the work of the Assembly would benefit much more from this lady. Her impressive biography, her age and work experience give us that right, and now you give us one meaningful answer for that. This, in fact, speaks about how important and significant all of this is to you and how much this Parliament's work depends essentially on people who will help Mr. Odalovic. Because everything that happens in this House, everything that qualify and characterises the work of this house, depends solely on the political will of you who make up the assembly majority, your intra-coalization trade, agreements, negotiations, settlements and trade. While we are already accused of having a pointless debate today, I must say - do you know what a pointless debate for the Serbian Radical Party is? When you send a law to the assembly procedure with or without deputy secretary-generals, you discuss ten days which in particular, which in the principle of this law, so you open a war within the ruling majority itself, you all argue about this law, and you open war in public, and you open war in parliament around that law, and you write in the last article of the law – it will be applied in 2013. Now, that's a pointless debate. The senseless debate is when you send a law into the assembly procedure, so you adopt it with less or more problems, so don't apply a single word of that law for six months, and then, because of political disputes, you change it and open it both national and political and every other hatred, war and misunderstanding in Serbia. You are now accusing us of pointless debate, and what are the consequences and consequences of pointless political and dirty uncompromising debates in the Assembly for all of us living in Serbia, it does not matter, it does not interest anyone. A senseless debate on the law and planning and construction, which was initially doomed. But it did not depend on whether or not we have a deputy secretary-general, but on the capacity to implement it, or on the concept of that law, which it essentially represents, or whether all of that bureaucracy in Serbia will be ready to apply it. It's a meaningful or pointless debate, and all you can do is talk about it for the public. Or lie to ourselves. Here, I won't even say that you're lying to yourself, all of us here together to lie to ourselves. These are pointless and unfair debates, when the law finds no application in practice and the state feels no single effect of any law that I don't even know how much debate is being discussed. But I repeat for the third time, it is absolutely not up to those who sit there, or who will eventually sit, nor these two imposing or less imposing biographies, or si-wi, that depends solely on your political will. And if there's no point and if it's being promoted, it's being promoted by you who represent power. You can't accuse the opposition of wanting to present this country to the worst country in the world. Unfortunately, we don't have a chance to represent her in the world. You represent her. And you represent it by sending a drunk to a serious state in Europe for an ambassador, or by inviting a quasi-lidre to a serious foreign minister after a serious topic – go on behalf of the state, help the state. It's a mockery of the state, it's a mockery of its own state, it's a manifestation of our own weaknesses, not a fact of whether or not we have a deputy secretary general, one or two, and how, in what form, we're going to conduct a discussion of the choice of deputy secretary general. First you swear to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say you're giving two deputy secretary generals, you're proposing them, and the day we have to discuss it, you pull one. And you have a business obligation to have two deputy secretary generals. And then we're having a pointless discussion, and you're perfect, meaningful, positive and very constructive compared to the state. What else did you say, constructive opposition? You're constructive because you adopt amendments. But that's why on Sunday afternoon you'll inform us that on Monday, calling us to unity, we're discussing a matter that is essential to the state, and then in that debate, you change both the essence and the form of it. You're inviting us, I was saying that yesterday, to unity, and you expect us to be a constructive opposition because you're adopting amendments. You don't have to adopt any, but that doesn't mean we're not ready to be constructive. But the relationship and the relationship, and that category of constructiveity, you have to initiate and show those who are governmental. It's not a constructive thing to give in to everything you're looking for and be what you want us to be. It's one-brained. But I'm afraid there's no way you can recognize that. And that's why we're going as we go, which is why what's going on is happening to us, and that's why we come to the Assembly, so we expect the opposition to be constructive, and the government to be in front of the opposition between themselves is fighting, and that's what everyone in the state feels on their own. You were still talking here about ten thousand-euro phone bills. Mrs. Kolundji, from all your discussions, I ask one question – is DS guilty of something in this country? It's the Socialists' fault, but you don't mind in the government. They boast that you would not adopt two-thirds of the law without them. Now you're trying to bring the burden and all the crashes of the 1990s down on the SRS. That's probably how coalition relations make it easier for you. And for the period from 2000 to today, it's all your fault, Kostunica. It's Kostunica's fault, too, I agree, but you've been keeping him company. And in 2007, you ignored it yesterday, you haven't been in power since 2008, you've been making those phone accounts together. But at that moment, you were forced, for compromise, to remain silent. When you couldn't do it anymore, then you broke up the government. It doesn't matter who broke it, but the government broke. Say you're guilty of something, too, that you've caused some trouble in this country. Is it possible that because of us, the opposition or the SRS, the public is experiencing Parliament's experience? Well, you can't go to the doctor. A colleague went to a doctor (not to call him now) and complained of high pressure. Do you know what the doctor told him? Less to eat at a congregation restaurant. That's how they recognize us, Mrs. Kolundjia, and that doesn't say who the MP is – it's easy for you, 200,000 or 300,000 salaries. You didn't have the guts to tell the public. The law, the wages and everything about the Assembly has been written to us by the media, and you keep quiet, you won't tell. Yesterday I asked you what the salaries were at the Deposit Insurance Agency. Over 200,000 today. In the Civil Aviation Control Directorate, not to mention the directors, we're talking about workers... But all Satanization is on the subject of the National Assembly, and the authorities will wash themselves because of their incompetence and inability to resist pressures from neither do I know which centres nor accuse the opposition. Here's the kind of congregation you're making. You're devising a debate, you want to introduce the country to the worst in the world, etc. That won't get us anywhere. One banal debate you are not prepared to imitate as the Rules of Procedure obliges you to proceed in the procedure in which you are required. The day before vacation, we're talking about the deputy secretary general. You commit to something in front of the IMF, you don't respect those laws, or you wait for September and autumn to discuss them. In particular, the fiscal responsibility law, which would regulate the use of telephone bills and spending, among other things. I will be free, although I belong to the opposition, to say that again the Assembly, how-so, when rationalising and reducing spending, has certainly moved on compared to all institutions. But you have the capacity to control, which you have given to yourself by the Law on the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure and all other documents, you are unable to respect. You have no political power, you have no political will, and we are all victims of the political compromises that you, for the sake of the survival of the government, are forced to do. I've said it five times before, and I'll always mention it. Find a measure when accusing and showing once preparedness to accept essential responsibility for something. No protocol – it's my fault. Resign. He doesn't think about it. Accept one responsibility, at least through the extent that you will face opposition, when such, and formal, and essential, and procedural and whatever mistakes and nonsense you bring before us MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43827	12 minutes and 12 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has the People's MP Dobrislav Prelic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43828	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in principle, turned out to be right about everything the SRS has been saying, when it comes to any law being passed, so is today. We first received a motion for a decision to appoint a deputy secretary general of the National Assembly, and then withdraw the decision, so you will probably now adopt a deputy secretary general, because you should. Mrs. Nada Kolundžija said Mr. Todorovic had severely violated the Rules of Procedure, even insisted and a little nervously asked the President of the Assembly to punish him, to apply the Rules of Procedure, etc. We think there's another problem. I was also in the last session, when the Law on Trade was here, when I tried in my own way, in the way Serbian radicals do, in the way people from the middle of which I came from, and not only from that municipality, but from the entire Western district, and in general, to bring up the problems relating to the Law on Trade, which are closely related to agricultural production, to the trade of agricultural products, was from Mrs. Comic disabled from talking. I really don't know why, but I think it's a fundamental reason to be prevented from bringing out the truth and the real problems of our citizens, everything that's happening on the ground and how the citizens of Serbia live today. What have you done with the rationalization of jobs, where have you been ordered by the EU Commission to do so, especially when it comes to state administration, and then local self-government? The only thing you respected was to cut the transfer funds to local self-government and, of course, turn your backs on them. We don't know you fired anyone from the state administration. Today we received information that each ministry receives two, three, five new workers, so new jobs are being opened. In particular, the Municipality of Odzaca came from the Ministry of Local Self-Government to have 46 extra workers. No one's been fired. Moreover, after these elections on January 24th, I have no reliable data, but I think about 20 people were admitted, which in local self-government, which in public enterprises. And the transfer funds are down. Believe that people are already slowly, being gentle, joking and saying they're sitting on each other's heads. And why is that? Because you promised everything and everything in the election campaign. Only DS signed over two billion protocols. The SPS and Mr. Bajatovic, I think it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43829	National MP, I remind you of the obligation of Article 103 to speak on the subject of the agenda, and the topic of the agenda is the selection of the Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43830	Honestly, Mrs. Comic, I expected this, and I deliberately said that last time it was the Trade Act, you remember that you interrupted me...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43831	National MP, I now warn you that the violation of Article 103 withdraws for the chairman to impose measures on you from a member which implies respect for the Rules of Procedure and when it comes to self-discipline and when it comes to the chairman, which are bound by members of the Rules of Procedure up to 107, so please - Article 103 and the selection of Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43832	And today, in this debate, it is seen that, when we warn you that such proposals as this are for the deputy secretary general of the National Assembly and any law that comes to us MPs are not good, that in six or nine months, they will come back into the assembly procedure to demand changes or additions, and you did not believe us, in practice it really is. I'll give you an example. It happened with both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, where we had changes and additions...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43833	People's MP, I give you a second warning, most seriously. If you insist that I fulfill my obligations, I am at your disposal. Either you will respect Article 103 and speak of the agenda or, unfortunately, I have no other way, except to violate the Rules of Procedure, but to give you criminality. Therefore, Article 103 and the election of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43834	That's exactly what I'm talking about, the way we're choosing the deputy secretary today, that the proposal came in the way we couldn't even prepare, we had a retreat now... You talk about theory and find excuses in the Rules of Procedure, and reality is completely different. I absolutely understand that you do not allow us to state our position and position of the party within the time of the parliamentary group, to present the problems of all citizens. Here, let me just say one thing. For example, the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Proposals was established two months ago, two years after the constitution of the National Assembly. It speaks enough about seriousness and how much the ruling majority thinks about the problems of our citizens. We have received assurances that all these letters and requests from all citizens will be considered. However, the third session was not scheduled, two were. He's even in the new Rules of Procedure, I think, that board is terminated, if I'm not mistaken. And that speaks enough of your good intentions. And the fact that the laws are not respected, above all, by the ruling majority, we have had the opportunity to see even when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The SRS thinks they simply cannot come up with a solution and obey the law. In fact, we in the Odjaks have made a request to the Anti-Corruption Agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43835	People's MP, I give you my first warning and I ask you to return to the agenda and respect Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if you do not wish to insist that you feel that you have the right to violate Article 103 and Article 104, to endanger the dignity of the National Assembly by making false and believing that you can violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly without punishment. So please continue in accordance with Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43836	I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, I didn't understand. Did you say I'm false?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43837	Please continue in accordance with Article 103 – agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43838	All right, Mrs. Comic, I'll end up in one sentence. Believe me, this isn't even a "d" of democracy, you're only missing a naked island.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43839	I give you a second warning because of the insult of the institution of the National Assembly and I remind you of the obligation of polite treatment with other MPs and with the chairman, in the obligation that whatever we say here, bearing responsibility for the public word, we preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. The time that MP Dobrislav Prelic used for eight minutes, given that the minute and 30 seconds were used for warnings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am not so fortunate to speak when Mrs Djukic Dejanovic is chaired, so I will try to channel my speech in the best possible way, so I will not earn a warning for no reason. What's the point of today's agenda is...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43841	I ask you not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the decisions of the chairman and not to play with responsibility for the public word. The warning given to your predecessor and member of the Parliament group Dobrislav Prelic was given with an explanation, which you can see through the insight into the stenogram if you did not listen carefully, how much the will of MP Dobrislav Prelic feels that he may not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I now warn you that your public appearance and your public word are summed up with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43842	Can I go on? Thank you. Therefore, in the light of this proposal, it reads: 'Article 34. The Law on the National Assembly provides that the Secretary General of the National Assembly shall have a deputy who shall assist him in his work and replace him in the event of absence or prevention. The deputy shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Secretary-General, with the agreement of the President of the Assembly. The number of Deputy Secretary-General shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.' The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say, 'The Secretary of the National Assembly has two deputies who help him in his work. The secretary of the National Assembly determines which of the deputy secretaries replaces him in the event of his absence. The Deputy Secretary shall appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from the Administrative Board.' So this is what we used to say when you passed the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly, that you brought in one act that cuts with the other. In his Rules of Procedure, he says he is going on a proposal from the Administrative Board, and the motion for a decision and law says - with the agreement of the National Assembly president. Since the President of the National Assembly is not the Administrative Board, a logical question is raised – if the Secretary-General can select two candidates in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, and the Administrative Committee makes a proposal, what are we going to do if the Administrative Committee does not give the National Assembly a proposal from those two candidates wanted by the Secretary-General or the Administrative Board to do as a proposal to the Assembly something that is agreed or disagreed with by the President of the Assembly? What are we going to do in this situation if, say, Mr. Veljko Odalovic cannot co-operate with candidate Mladen Mladenovic? They can't, they're simply not from the same political party, they don't have coordination, they're not even in the same practice. What problem do you solve by authorising the Administrative Committee to make decisions already decided by law? Since the Governing Board here is a god and a beating, since the Administrative Board is tasked with controlling, managing and punishing MPs and controlling the work and course of the session, then we must conclude that it depends on the Administrative Board and who will be the Deputy Secretary-General. Now, since the Management Board is holding DS here, it's concrete that the DS wants to have complete control, because the secretary general is from another political party, from the SPS. Since the secretary-general cannot choose his associates to work with, then it will be imposed by the Democratic Party as he thinks it is best for her and give one of his staff who are educated in the Serbian state budget and who are in the Serbian Parliament. I have absolutely nothing personal against candidate Mladen Mladenovic. I'm glad that younger people have a chance to show themselves and prove themselves. What adventures this candidate is that he knows Excel, Word, Power Point and the Internet. You could also name Facebook, My Space, a horoscope, whether he speaks English, whether he is married, whether he will be and how much he plans to have children. This résumé you listed for this candidate does not give up the candidate himself. If you have stated that he is in the area of the legislative process in the Republic of Serbia someone who participates in the drafting of the bill, round tables, especially as it relates to European integration and EU rights and procedures, it is the best proof that he is competent for your parties. Here you should have written – where our party is; if it is not, it will be; and we plan that the party should be in office on that and on that and so on. Do not even demean the Secretary General of the Assembly that you do not give him the opportunity to choose a candidate. You know, it's been four months since the secretary general has no deputies, with an explanation of the current deputy secretary general that he resigned for private reasons because it's easier for him to be an advisor to the secretary general than his deputy. Then we now have two deputies elected by the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure have voted you. Mrs. Kolundjia, if you're saying that it's unrealistic to attack a man or a man who can't speak because his Rules of Procedure make it impossible for him, why didn't you put that provision in the Rules of Procedure? Did you choose what the Rules of Procedure would look like? Why didn't you create a parliamentary opportunity to address the Secretary General or anyone... ? You know, we pick judges, so the judge can't talk. We also pick some members of the broadcasting agencies, so they can't turn around. And don't forget that on the agenda that we have in front of us you signed and that you put this on the agenda. The signatures are from ZES, G17 plus and SPS-PUPS-JS. So, you defend it then if you put it on the agenda. Don't attack us that it's unrealistic, that we can't get an answer because you won't defend something that you put on the agenda. It doesn't make any sense. That's one thing. The second thing, since the Administrative Board is making a decision on the humidity of the air in this room and since you're saying that belting is something that is run by the DS and the work of the Assembly, and then we've got a lot of media information about how much it's saved during 2009, how much will be saved during 2010, why didn't you predict one secretary, if we already have an adviser to Pudad? Why didn't you make a savings here? It's easy to attack the opposition that he's a budget spender of the Assembly, and you're not thinking about what your party's doing. You mentioned a few examples here. Here's a few examples I'm going to mention to you. A National MP from the Assembly, when going to a delegation somewhere in Europe, takes the official vehicle of a ministry where DS is in power, and then comes to the Assembly's office to collect travel expenses, mileage and diaries, because there is no evidence in the ministry where there was an official vehicle because it was a minister from the same party. How do we trace how much money was drawn in that way? So, with what right do you honor us that we are consumers (not as an MP group but as a general opposition)? So there's a series of machinations that you're using. You've made a media stunt about you abolishing the eight dinar team for a glass of coke. And that's the biggest savings. It's also on those that have 15,000 dinars, and they work in the kitchen all day long. The savings are on waiters and drivers, working abnormal hours. And where is the savings on you, who travel and travel the world at the expense of the state, at the expense of the congregation? There's no savings, there's no bill. There can't be a pre-election campaign if you don't see one minister with five vehicles. You don't know which one of those five cars and who's driving it. In all five vehicles, one minister. In every election campaign in every local self-government, we have one minister each day. Where's the savings? Where's the rational consumption and belt tightness? So, if you're going to choose who's going to be a co-worker of the secretary general, and not him, that means you don't trust the secretary general. Mr. Odalovic, with all due respect to you, but I, as someone who runs an institution, ask that I choose my own advisors, not to be decided by the Administrative Board. You are here saying the law states that it is elected by the National Assembly, with the agreement of the President of the Assembly on the proposal of the Secretary General, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say it can be proposed by the Administrative Board. Well, who now gives consent – the Administrative Committee or the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly? That's one thing. The second thing, the argument that Mr. Pudard resigned for private reasons, that it's easier for him to be a counselor than a deputy, is that time period of four months for this not to be on the congregation agenda. I will remind you that you wrote in an explanation – this proposal is proposed to be made by emergency procedure in order to ensure the conditions for the smooth work of the National Assembly as soon as possible. It takes you four months to realize that you should have a smooth assembly work. And now for the rest of the day. It is said – the secretary general chooses which deputy will replace him in absentia. Now, during our vacation, we're all in absentia. Then what is the role of this law? And how important is this to you, how many of you are in the O.R.? And then you're going to say that this is an unrealistic debate and that we're talking without arguments and facts Mrs. Kolundjia, the unrealistic debate is when you adopt amendments that arrived at the motion for a resolution three days before the resolution arrived. It's called an unrealistic debate, because they knew in advance what would happen and what would be adopted. It's called an unrealistic and pointless debate, when you have the concept of going ahead. This same concept is solved by no one but the Administrative Committee. I will visit you that President Nenad Konstantinovic of the Democratic Party is on the Administrative Board, so there is no dilemma about who creates the climate and the situation in the Assembly and who frames the Assembly in the best way possible. We made here a solution to the parking space problem, a solution to the problem of the team, how many glasses of water a day, how much we're gonna drink coke that costs eight dinars per glass, and that's how much we saved 15% for 2009. And what about travel expenses, what about you guys who don't know how to get into city traffic, what about those who have drivers for other purposes? What about the president's secretary, what about the responsibility for running down a man? There's no responsibility, there's no rationalization, there's no savings. There's only savings when it comes to the opposition, and it saves time, time-saving, time-stealing, saving on disrupting speakers, saving on the worst deconcentration of anyone who's ever wanted to say anything. When the word "democracy" is mentioned, you get a warning. Mrs. Comic, why are you ashamed of the words "democracy"? Your client is the Democratic Party. Mr. Prelic mentioned democracy, and you gave him a warning. Based on what? You want to give me a warning because I said what I thought? Or is that forbidden in this congregation? (President: I remind you of article 103 and your obligation to speak on the agenda. Now, this is the best proof that I'm right. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that there's not one deputy secretary for four months, and you're saying this is an emergency, means four months didn't matter if there was a deputy. It's important now, when we go on vacation. Now, I'm asking you -- are you going to take this second candidate, for pulling him out, after your vacation to propose or are we going to wait another four months for this first game? Or will Mr. Odalovic choose which deputy will replace him, and there is only one? What situation did you put the secretary general in, friendly or hostile? And then you're going to say that you're taking care of him and you're taking care of the Assembly. I think this is a groundless debate because, first of all, we don't have an answer, because you didn't allow anyone to answer that question, and because you remain silent about those basic problems that characterize the work of the Assembly, all of this is a purely formal thing, and essential to work will not help anything. That's why this argument is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43843	Twelve minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43844	Mrs. Comic, how much time do I have? (President: Ten minutes and 30 seconds has your parliamentary group. All right, that's enough. Well, he's in a hurry for people to get together in time. Mladen Mladenovic came in an incredibly good position. Almost the same day, it is decided on by Governor Dejan Soskic, about judges who are elected for a three-year term, on the deputy public prosecutor, on the President of the National Bank of Serbia's Council of Governors. Perhaps that young man could not dream of the significance of the day of his election. But let's get back to this topic. You see, when a official is elected at the National Assembly, and this is not about the MP, then it is considered not a political issue. Unfortunately, it's a political issue, and I think I have very little right to talk about it, and I have a lot more to do, because I've been sitting in this same bench since February 3, 1993. Since then, I have been fighting for parliamentaryism, and it basically means that all possible alternatives are heard, so let the citizens choose alternatives. Of course, both within the topic and within what is a political moment and what interests the citizens. Since the number of employees is inescapably open, I really need to draw attention to the fact that in 2000 the Republic Assembly had below 100 employees, and today, according to some data, it is 360. It's probably one number and it's taken over when there's been a coup of the state community. I must also draw attention to the fact that at one time the service of both the National Assembly and the Federal Assembly was not only so organized, but also had the authority to point out to both Governments and ministers and MPs and MPs something that could not pass in these documents and acts adopted in the National Assembly. Today, the services became silent observers. You have developed, to an incredible extent, a co-operation service with the EU, which my predecessors have also talked about, without us knowing at all what the purpose of these jobs is. All who were in the delegation and traveled abroad saw what elemental problems they were facing to get to that location where an international meeting was held. But not to talk about it, it's well known to you. I do not want to talk about whether the National Assembly, on the promise of President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, owes me two and a half years to answer the question whether Mladjan Dinkic was right when he made a record of the renovation of this building and the abuse of funds. I've been waiting two and a half years for the answer to that question, and I know the answer. Just to remind you that we have reason to doubt what we're doing, and here's the evidence. I have here a list of extra workers in local self-government. You remember last year you swore to meet the terms of the IMF. We still don't have the information what's been done. We still have no information on how many irrational points are shut down, closed down. And we know why there is no answer, as we know and why we moved into this building. Simply, some high-ranking state officials do not answer that from two metres away, and there is so much distance in that building between the pay phone and the first row, they listen to the MPs, but when they happen to appear in the National Assembly, they want it to be a decent distance. You said "we" and "you" and you made a fundamental mistake. There should be no division in the assembly of MPs on "we" and "you", we in power, you in opposition, but it does not surprise me when DS cheers and dresses in the country. I remind you of the time that Angelka was secretary of the National Assembly in that building over there. The public must know, if a photocopy of this most ordinary paper was needed, the secretary was authorized to paralyze so that it could be copied. A congregation car to go to the party to get some document that's important to you for discussion, that was an impossible variant. From the point of view of parliamentaryism, I have to say that a better period came when he was president of the National Assembly of Predrag Markovic. There was some respect after all. The assembly was quite effective, but everyone had the opportunity to say. There were no warnings, there were no hijackings, there were no MPs being expelled, there was no stealing of the mandate, there was no violent achievement of some apparent majority in parliament. The Democratic Party as its great enemy has parliamentaryism and that is why you have proved yourself these few years that you have practically annulled some of the assets of parliamentaryism. Last time I told you a little joke, but in a big way, I told you, a 1991 businessman was the best Rules of Procedure. You have all later de-located him and led him to this situation, that the Rules of Procedure become more of a rule of disciplinary responsibility than something that has a modest number of provisions that regulate the elemental order, to allow everyone to speak. Unfortunately, the president of the assembly is not the first among the equals, but has become something much more, much above that. Unfortunately, it used to be impossible, and today there's talk here about Mr. Bagzie, Mr. Legion, Mr. Chumett, Mr. Stanko Subotic Canet. Oh, my God. Let me remind you, in 2001, Vojislav Seselj wrote the book "Cana Frog, King of the Duvan Mafia". He was also sued by Stanko Subotić and Jovica Stanisic. Zoran Djindjic asked the public prosecutor to initiate proceedings against Vojislav Seselj for spreading false news. And, let me remind you, it's still on the force of the warrants you've issued against Stanko Sutotic Canet. Then what were you throwing Vojislav Seselj out of the National Assembly in 2001? What did he do wrong? He was able to tell the truth before you or maybe he was much better than you knew who you were and what you were? You know, there's a lot of questions here that the public expects to answer. Todorovic probably spent a year waving papers on inappropriately high salaries in the state lottery, the airport and sorting, sorting, sorting... It was only the moment you decided you could take advantage of yourself, that you opened up the data, so it's probably in a sense calm that Mr. Todorovic tried. Mr. Todorovic also tried some things on the Security Committee. You immediately replaced him, so that after only three days, you would officially ask the Committee to consider what made Todorovic relieved. That's what democracy is all about. I say it in a joke sometimes, without the intention of insulting anyone, but it seems that Micunović first came into existence, then amoebe, then Democrats, and then Charles Darwin came to the conclusion that evolution exists. You can't treat democracy like that. If I were to ask you a question now, I know you'd jump, but I can't be St. Sava inside the DS, to keep you calm. If "Pres" holds under his control Mr. Gilas (all of them spoke in the National Assembly and all received warnings; Markicevic, a poor man, even received a threat), if the newspaper says that Boris Tadic's family was in Briony about the cost of the Croatian government, the 'Jadranka' villa, whom should we trust from DS – Boris Tadic or Gilas? If we ask that as a question, we're rude, we're primitive, we're not in the subject, we're causing something. Well, make a deal, people, within your party. We have our own ideology, and that's why we're quite infallible, because we're handling ideology. Please, it is announced yesterday – Jelasic is headed for the governor of the National Bank of Hungary. The day before yesterday, the governor of the central bank of Kosovo was arrested. Please, you're allowing a false state to demonstrate the signs of statehood and respect for law. I thought he was going to take this savings bank, or a exchange shop from Hungary, which spread across the Vojvodina. You don't run the system. You are guided by the principle – the worse, the better. Who's better? Tell me who's better. Now, that's our problem. Of course, I do not want to question Mr. Mladen Mladenov's integrity, but something is not well arranged. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. Bring the end. You will not solve any new rules of procedure, and this is the relation of the Administrative Committee – President... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43845	The law of Article 93 did not exercise Mrs. Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43846	I just want to say that the choice of deputy secretaries is very important, among other things, in order to fully control the spending of Serbian citizens' funds in this assembly. We, ever since we took responsibility in this assembly, have largely completed this job, so that someone, such as MP Nemanja Sarovic, has raised 27,000 euros for travel expenses as if he had traveled from Leskovec every day, and we all know that he is a citizen of the Old Town municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43847	Proposer representative Mr Veljko Odalović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43848	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I am pleased that this topic has been debated. It just wouldn't be good if no one mentioned what the role is, what the function is, and what the mandate of this young man, who, along with all of us here, is to be someone who will do everything in his mandate, and what needs me, as the most responsible person, to do together to help all of us to do what is best and better. I'm sorry that the young is as prominent as a handicap. It's a very valuable, professional, responsible man, who, rest assured, will be much more useful to all of you than to me. What I want to point out, and it was going through the discussions, is that someone here has taken over my mandate, my function, my right. First, there's enough of you here to know me well enough, so I won't let that happen. With all due respect to Mr. Konstantinovic, he was not involved in this. This is my proposal, which I stand very responsible for, and the Administrative Committee has no mandate in this part. I want to assure you once again that he cares about the employees you pointed out and my concern. I'm sorry I can't help but raise their salaries. You can do it. Here passed the Law on civil servants, here passed the Law on Salaries in State Authorities, and that was a place and opportunity for these people, who have salaries of 15,000, 17,000, 18,000 dinars, to be further motivated and stimulated in a certain way. I am sorry that these people are not employed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but are employed by the Department of Joint Affairs, but be sure that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I as secretary of all of them take care of them. So all that can be done to make their job easier, to help them, all the stimulation allowed by law is something they get. Thank you again. I believe that Mladen will be someone you will cooperate well with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43849	I thank Mr. Veljak Odalovic. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. In accordance with Article 85(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set out on July 28th, after the end of the vote I have already scheduled, as the Day in which we will vote on this item of the agenda. Now I'm setting a five-minute break and I'm asking the MPs to enter the O.R. to vote. We'll start voting at 1:15. (After the vote on the items of the Fourth Extraordinary Session – 15.10) Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the points of the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – the motion for a ruling on the election of the judge to a three-year term in the courts of general and special jurisdiction Since the National Assembly carried out the search, and before the transition to the ruling, I remind you that the Committee for Justice and Administration, held on 26 July 2010, considered this proposal and, at the same time, concluded that Tatjana Stevanovic, prosecutor at the Vranj General Public Prosecutor's Office, who was also proposed by the State Council of Prosecutors at the same time as the Deputy Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. Given that candidate Tatjana Stevanovic has so far been performing the affairs of the prosecutor's assistant, the Justice and Administration Committee has proposed to the National Assembly to accept the State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal to elect the deputy public prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, without accepting the proposal to elect Tatjana Stevanovic as judge in the Vranja Basic Court, because of the inability to perform both functions at the same time. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 13) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, chooses judges by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect judges on a three-year term in the courts of general and special jurisdiction, No 119-1979/10 of 22 July 2010, except for the proposal to elect Tatjana Stevanovic, the prosecutor's assistant general public prosecutor in Vranj, as the judge of the Vranj Basic Court. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs a motion to elect judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, number 119-1979/10 of July 22nd 2010, except for the proposal to elect Tatjana Stevanovic, prosecutor's assistant of the Vranj General Public Prosecutor's Office, as judge of the Basic Court in Vranj. Since we have come to terms with the motion for a decision, allow me to, on your behalf and on my behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish them success in their work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal for a choice, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in agreement with Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, is elected by the President of the National Bank of Serbia by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal to elect Professor Dr. Bosko R. Zivkovic as President of the NBS Board. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly chose Professor Dr Bosko R. Zivkovic as President of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate Professor Bosko R. Zivkovic on your behalf and on my behalf, and wish him success in his work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I would like to put forward a motion for a decision to appoint the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without proposing that the Deputy Secretary-General be appointed Vanka Dubovac Pavlovic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that we have appointed Mladen Mladenovic as deputy secretary. Allow me to congratulate Mladen Mladenov on his appointment as Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on your behalf and on my behalf. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Public Prosecutor Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a medal, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 13) of the RS Constitution, elects the deputies of the public prosecutors to most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, number 119-1983/10 since 23 July 2010. Please press the corresponding key. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, number 119-1983/10 since 23 July 2010. Since we have come to terms with the motion for a decision, allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish for success in the work. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Allow me to, at all pretentious and quite subjective, express my satisfaction with the way we worked during this period, to wish you that in August we rested and that the ornis in September continued even more intense and quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43850	THE FOURTH EXCELLENT SESSION OF THE 28th of July 2010 (Eight of Work Day) (The session began at 13.20 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-28-0.u43851	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 129 MPs attend the sitting, and in order to determine precisely the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the MPs' units. I find, based on the electronic voting system, that at this point in the room, 131 is a national MP, so there are conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jankovic and Milica Radovic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY After the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft Rules of Procedure, I remind you that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the rules of procedure on its work. Before we move to a decision on the draft rules of procedure, we need to decide first on the amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure. I remind you that amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković and Dragan Colić, together Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Natasa Mić, Nebojša Randević, Vesna Pestoić, Zoran Hajdarević, Nena Hajdarević, Nenadmir Prokić and Slobodan Maraš, together Samoslav Samoslavov and Edjana Šiljano Šilić, Nata Šilić, Radjanić, Natić, Neštić, Neštić. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andric, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras, in writing, withdrew the amendment they submitted to Article 64. You have received reports from the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee on the examination of the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected an amendment submitted to Article 167 by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. I find that an integral part of the bill's proposal became the following amendments to the MPs, after being accepted by a representative of the proposings and the Administrative Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible: Nade Kolundžije to Article 23; Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andric, Judite Popović, Natasa Micic, Nebojsje Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokić and Slobodan Maras to member 23, with correction; groups of 21 MPs of the MP group, forward Serbia to members 28, 39, 213, 285 and 292; Dejana Nikolic to members 46 and 54; Natasa Vučković to members 46, 48, 64, with correction; and to Article 83; Konstavan Samofalov and Edipifalov to Article 49, with correction, with Articles 66; and Articles 211, 211, 219, 219, 219, 219, and 149, and 149, and 199inović to the members of the members, We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" and Sreto Peric. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras together. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 45th amendment. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras together. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment, with a correction of July 27th 2010, was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 143 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. No vote recorded. We'll have to do it again. Member of the 63rd amendment, with a correction of July 27th 2010, was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Of the 143 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 67a be added after article 67a. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 75th Amendment was filed by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 75th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 80th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the title above article 83. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 84th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 87th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 90th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 142 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 94th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 95th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 143 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. The 96th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 96th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 98th. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 99th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 103rd Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verica Radet. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 104th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verica Radet. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras together. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 105th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 113rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 114th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 115th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new chapter VII be added after article 118. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 127th amendment. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 151st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 158th Amendment was submitted by an MP, Verica Radet. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 158th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 163 by Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 169 of the amendment. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 180th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 181st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment to Article 198. Of 143 MPs, 12 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 198th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Ivanji. Of the 143 MPs, 33 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 200th amendment. Of the 143 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 201st Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokic and Slobodan Maras. Of the 143 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments, with corrections of 28 July 2010, were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nenad Prokić and Slobodan Maras. Of the 143 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 207th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 233rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 238th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 241st amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic since 26 July 2010. Of the 143 MPs, 127 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. The 259th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 260th amendment. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 271st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 143 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 297th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, since an integral part of the Rules of Procedure have become amendments to Articles 23 and 141, I have been informed by the National Assembly that the situation in Articles 146 and 5 and Articles 150 has taken place. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the need for the National Assembly to halt the adoption of the Rules of Procedure in general to bring the committees in charge to agree the amendments adopted with the text of the Rules of Procedure proposal and to submit amendments to which disagreements are removed. Accordingly, I am setting a 10-minute break in order for the committees in charge to hold a session and to submit the necessary reports and amendments, and the Administrative Committee immediately and five minutes thereafter. [[After break – 14.05]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, according to Article 86(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. Since we're at this point at 126, there are conditions for continuing work. You have received amendments based on Articles 146, 4 and 5 and 150. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 45, 71 and 150. The draft Rules of Procedure shall be submitted by the Administrative Board as well as by the Legislative Committee on the examination of these amendments. Given that the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, accepted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the Rules of Procedure's proposal. We continue our work by voting on the draft rules of procedure in general. I am voting on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in general. Of the 143 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF TRADE After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on trade to the vote, in principle. Of the 131 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly accepted the proposal. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as incomplete amendments to Article 2 together by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric, members of 18 who jointly submitted the MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric and to Article 68 with an amendment submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on, and I would also remind you that a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group has withdrawn the amendment to Article 41 by written means. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the title above Article 10th and Article 10th of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 30th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 34th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 119 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 40th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 41st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 42nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 46th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 46th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic put together the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 48 and 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 49th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 49th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 51 was submitted by Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, joint MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković and Nikola Lazic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andrić and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 64th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 73rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 74th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 74th Amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 75th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 77th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, joint MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojić Markovic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 79th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 81st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill of trade, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted for the law in general. The National Assembly passed a proposal for a law on trade. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the security of road traffic since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted for the bill in principle. I find that we have accepted the bill. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Milosevic and Dragan Markovic Palma. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand we've accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 1. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Of the 129 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the Committee's amendment. The assembly accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Petar Petrovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted an amendment adding new members 1a and 1b after Article 1. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment after the article. 1. add new members 1a, 1b and 1v. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group submitted an amendment to Article 2, which is added after Article 2a. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment adding a new Article 2a after Article 2. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 116 for. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group submitted an amendment adding a new member of the 3a after article 3. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 5. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group submitted an amendment adding a new member of 5a after article 5. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Ostojic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 6a after article 6. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment adding a new Article 7a after article 7. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 14. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Laws on Fight Against Corruption Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency's Anti-Corruption Act, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic withdrew the amendments they submitted together to the members of the 11th and 29th and Dragan Shormaz, who submitted the amendment to Article 29. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 9th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic of 129 MPs, no one for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 13th amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 26a be added after article 26. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. I put Mr Batic's amendments to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 120 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. We move on to a statement on the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 122 voted for the bill. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and details, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. Of the 127 MPs, one voted for. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Slobodan Maras has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd Amendment has been submitted by Ambassador Oedipus of the Sheriffs. During a review of the bill's proposal in particular, a proposing official, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, or agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I also remind you that the amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly will vote in general on these bill proposals. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State Credit to the Republic of Serbia I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly adopted this proposal. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CONCERNING THE BOOK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL PROTOCOL CONCERNED 15. December 2009 For years between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, I am putting this proposal to the vote between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Natixis, which takes place in the name and for the account of the Government of the Republic of France. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted this proposal. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (the Modernization School Programme) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted this proposal. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property I place on the vote. Of the 129 MPs, for 128. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property I place on the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAM REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN ON THE avoidance OF TWO DECESCRIPTIONS IN CONCERNING THE INVESTIGATION I am putting on the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to suspend the function of the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 14), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia elects and resolves the governor of the National Bank, by the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the role of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the role of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – the proposal for the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the Proposal for Choice, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 14) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses and resolves the governor of the National Bank most of the votes of all the MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Dejan Soskic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly selected Dr Dejan Soskovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia as the majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate Dr. Dejan Shoskovic on your behalf and on my own behalf and wish me success in my work. We move to the 14th point of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP OF THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE After the National Assembly has carried out the search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that the joint session of the Dean of Law in the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly for a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of the Faculty of Law elects Prof. Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic, Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all MPs to elect a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a joint session of the Faculty of Law Deans in the Republic of Serbia to elect Prof. Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic, Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis, as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly elected Professor Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic, dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis, as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. Let me, on your behalf and mine, congratulate the election of a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and wish him much success in his work. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Articles 100, 6 and 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will be declared without delay in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, at a session on 19 July 2010, at 1805, pointed to a violation of article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010.
