ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39510	I appeal to Article 27, Madam President, I want to ask what the problem is with the "Friend Group" with the Iranian Parliament. I guess we all know how important cooperation with Iran is to us. A group of friendships has been formed, but unfortunately, months have passed, and, as far as I hear, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee hasn't put it on the agenda yet? I understand Mr. Micunovic, I guess he's still chasing pension conditions, here, spending five million in the past travel period, but I really don't understand... (President: I would like to ask you.) Five or less than five, I don't know how many, it's not even... . (President: Mr Todorovic, don't ruin Parliament's reputation, the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has very important tasks, so I really ask you to take care of it. I know, I know, here's two words you've convinced me. I'll take it. I ask the question – what are the reasons that this group of friendships finally doesn't start working? You know how important Iran is when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, what the influence of Iran is, when it comes to recognising Kosovo's independence and Metohija by Islamic states. I don't know what reasons the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee has to do with the "group" being finally unconstituted. What are those reasons? On the one hand, you are talking about our priority is to reduce the possibility of recognising Kosovo and Metohija from some countries, and one extremely friendly state, on this basis, we ignore and send a rather clear message that we do not care about co-operation. I ask you, as President of the Assembly, to influence this business to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39511	It's been two minutes. You've abused the Bureau's breach institute. In fact, you've asked a parliamentary question, and that can only seem on Tuesdays and Thursdays, even if I'm personally interested, of course, in establishing all the groups of friendships, but this is decided by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please use the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the essence of... (National MP Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I did not say that the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the 27th member here clearly speaks of your responsibilities, that you are obliged to take care of... Please, you don't have a word. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Goran Mihajlović, Nikola Savić, Radiša Ilic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Knezmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borislav Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuketa Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Momir Marković, Milan M. Nikolic, Srbol Živanovic, Dusan Marić, Zlata Djerić, Momcilo Duvnjak, as well as amendments to the Committee on Science and Technological Development. You have received reports from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment submitted by MP Dusan Maric to article 11. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. Will you? I looked, you checked in, so you turned it off. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ, and you've shut down the application again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is fundamentally preparing for all the draft laws, of course, and for this law on metrology, regardless of the fact that the government, and you from the Assembly, were also absolutely unfair when it comes to this law and when it comes to this whole scientific discipline, so you put this whole metrology law where it doesn't belong, you put it in a unique principled search with the law on regional development, the law on free action and the law on privatisation. Therefore, in the principle debate on this law, there was not a single word, there was nothing to be heard about this law, and unfortunately, and now through the debate in particular, there is not much to be said, because the time of the parliamentary groups was spent on very important laws. The SRS will use their time and say something about these laws. In fact, this law on metrology is a very important law, because it is in some way a matter of every citizen. In the morning, as soon as we wake up, we look at a timer, a timer, or, after that, when we go to the store, we meet again with one measuring device, or a mass measurement device, a scale, or, let's say, when we go to a gas station, one flow measurement device, etc. So this law is also very important because it concerns every citizen of ours. As it can be concluded from the very title of the law, it refers to different types of measurement, because metricology itself is a scientific discipline that deals with measurements. Each measurement implies a measurement error, however, you do not call this error a real name, a measurement error, but you call it – an associated measure, uncertainty, although the old term is a'measure error', much more appropriate and understandable to all. On the other hand, the law does not pay enough attention to the accuracy of measurement, and thus does not define the best way of measuring errors, and we have seen for ourselves that these measurement errors and how they can affect many things. It doesn't need to be reminded much, but I'm going to give an example that we're all well-known for, in the last Olympics, you all know very well that our swimmer Milorad Cavic, perhaps unjustly, was taken away from the gold Olympic medal, for the simple reason that the measuring devices were inaccurate. What's even more important to say about this law is the fact that it applies to both health protection and general safety. However, here the law does not treat health protection and general safety in an adequate way, and we know that this is a very important area, because, for example, in medicine or biology there are no theoretical values, which makes measurements in these areas quite complicated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39513	You've spent your time with your MPs. Thank you. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, before we continue the work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly will be followed by a group of students from Sainta, and that: Victoria Guljaš, Time Abata, Milan Studen, Vanja Volgić, Vandel Detkin, Emesa Sestok, Ramona Somođi, Ana Marija Katon, Žužana Perpauer, Agnes Mesaroš Ketelli, Anita Prekpaljej, Blanca Alesoska, Anti Horvat Katai, Vlastimir Vidojković, Kiti Berček, Dragan Baj, Dejan Obadov, Anita Rac, Anita Todorov, Monika Todor, Boris Ivjan, Cilia Urban Urban Urban, Noemi Molnar Gabor, Olga Vajler, Aleksandra Vjetić, Marko Zvić, Mla Zvić, Mlažjan Erić, St. Let's welcome our dear and esteemed guests. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. [[Applause]] Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) Mr. Savic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39514	Since I don't have much time, I'm going to continue this exposure from the previous amendment. I'll be more specific when it comes to the law. This law has many shortcomings, and one of the basic ones is that it has not counted seven basic units of the international SI system in any place. So there aren't many, seven units could count, and all the other units were derived from these other seven. I'd like to point out another lack of this law. It does not cover it, and I believe that some specific types of measurement should also be included, such as, say, a public opinion survey or an examination of the ratings of certain televisions. We are all witnessing that today there are a very large number of public opinion agencies in Serbia that have misrepresented or misrepresented data and how they influence and shape public opinion in Serbia. Of course, it is most reflected when it comes to the rating of political parties. Because noting the wrong public opinion can raise or reduce the rating of a particular political party. Of course, that applies to other areas. Therefore, one provision should be introduced into this law under which each public opinion agency is obliged to publish information on the reliability of that examination in the publication of that public opinion. In fact, it's said that the reliability of the study is 90, 95 or 80%, it doesn't matter, but since it's a variable category, and we're dealing with politics, so when it comes to elections, for those who miss a lot, and we've had situations that were much earlier...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39515	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) Mr. Ilich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on metrology. The amendment refers to paragraph 1(6) and is proposed: "Sertified reference material is a reference material accompanied by a certificate providing one or more of the required properties with an error whose probability of appearing within the predetermined range and with proof of unambiguousness". The frequency of measurement errors is subject to the laws of probability by which it is always possible to prescribe some extent of probability, their occurrence in the course of measurement, which is a much more appropriate term than the term "accompanied measurement uncertainty", which was cited by the legislator in this article. Given that the word "continuity" is not in the spirit of Serbian language, it is necessary to replace it with the word "single meaning", which paints most precisely what the lawmaker wanted to point out in this article. This isn't the first time we've introduced such words into our legislation that we're going to need a dictionary to know what the proposer is, not to say the writer, wanted to say. The fast - translated laws sometimes confuse us with the use of certain words to ask the question of how the next day these words will be interpreted in, say, some court procedure. The opposing parties will be forced to engage artists to interpret the meaning of certain words. With this amendment, we're trying to sort it out, even when it comes to this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39517	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39518	I thought, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until today, that is, until the moment I was given an explanation of why the amendment is not acceptable to me, that we are working in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that the state of Serbia has a Serbian language as an official language, alongside the language of the people and the nationalities that live in Serbia. I felt that we were passing laws for the state of Serbia and that they would apply in the state of Serbia, which is why I felt they had to be in Serbian and that the terms used in the law were Serbian terms. I suggested that we use the experience of Bulgaria, and all those laws that we have to adopt in order to eventually enter the European Union, and then all in English, one 300 pieces, we finish in a day, we get rid of those 300 pieces, and we finish the job. I wonder if Germany, France or Spain, therefore, countries that hold to their sovereignty, to territorial integrity, to their language and letters, are adapting their terms in their laws, possibly, England or some countries, primarily in America, which are used in English. I don't want to remind you of the words of Stefan Negance that he said to his son: "The language, son, is the state, is the language, son, the basis. When you lose, you can get it back, and when you lose, you can't get it back. ''It seems that, if you continue like this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Europe, crawling or, worse, given some of the laws that we have passed in the previous period, we will reverse, so to whom it breaks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39519	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39520	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted to the Law of Metricology Amendments on Article 5 paragraph 1 point 8 and it reads: "The evaluation is a set of procedures which, under certain conditions, establish a relationship between quantitative values of physical sizes and their performances (indication), with relevant errors that cause both the standard and the results of measurement, and whose probability of appearing within the pre-determined range. "The explanation is as follows: ''The evaluation of measuring instruments in technical terms represents the determination of the characteristic relationship between the number of values of the measured physical size (which appears to be an instrument) and the specific position of the indicator of the instrument itself. The frequency of the occurrence of measurement errors is covered by the laws of probability, under which it is always possible to prescribe some likely extent of their occurrence during measurement, which is a much more appropriate term than the term associated with measurement uncertainty, which in this article has been cited by the legislator. '" (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, please let us hear the messenger speaking. I pray for silence, gentlemen of the Parliament. ) The government did not accept this amendment for the reason that the term 'ethlonisation' was downloaded from the international dictionary of basic and general terms in the metrology, which was used as an international document in the drafting of the bill. It's one proof that we're just taking foreign names and not using what we have in our language. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39521	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39522	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of point 16 which reads: "Confirmation of the criterion is a procedure which includes review and labelling (marking) of the criteria, i.e. issuing a certificate of verification of the criteria, which is established and confirms that the criterion is in line with the prescribed macroeconomic requirements. "With this amendment, I wanted to draw attention to the word "confirmation" being replaced by "testing." The explanation is as follows: ''The legal procedure for establishing the measurement characteristics of any specific criterion in technical circles is known as AESTIRANJE and consists of the publication of written and certified AESTA document. ''This amendment was spoken of on the parent board of science and technological development, and I tried to explain to the representatives of the Government the meaning of authentication and the meaning of atheists. By using professional technical literature, you have to believe me, I have found nowhere a word of confirmation, although I have accepted on the board a stamping process regarding measuring instruments. We know well that a measured regulation technique plays a very important role in the metrology, and that's the one that's being published, that's actually the title that marks the degree of regularity, or the time option of that instrument. I think you should accept my amendment, because for technical reasons it is accepted. You have to believe me, as a technical person, as a man who's dealt with these affairs, until now, the "confirmation" of instruments, I haven't found such an expression in our language application, except for an atheist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39523	The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39524	I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 for positions 2 and 3 which are changed and read as follows: "The professional and related executive tasks in the field of metricology are carried out by the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, the Authority of the Administration responsible for the affairs of metricology (hereinafter referred to as the Directorate) and the Metrological Council as an expert advisory body. The activities of atesting criteria shall be carried out by economic operators and other legal entities authorised under this law to carry out those tasks (hereinafter referred to as: authorised bodies). ''The explanation is this: ''In addition to the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, it is also the responsibility of the Metrology Department, whose powers are set out in Article 12 of this bill. ''The legal procedure for the determination of the measurement characteristics of any specific criterion in technical circles is known as 'testing', and consists of the publication of a written and certified 'testing' document, the user of which demonstrates its compliance with the applicable legal regulations relating to this type of criterion. The government has not accepted the amendment for the reason why the bill provides for the establishment of a Metrological Council by the Government, whose role is exclusively advisory, while Article 9. The Ministry Act prescribed that the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals shall carry out the professional affairs and tasks of the State Administration in that area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39525	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39526	Now these government officials, ladies and gentlemen, have confused me, because, in an explanation of why I was not accepted by the amendment, they say, "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments to Article 6.". The amendment to Article 6 regulates other matters entirely, and I have not submitted any amendment to Article 6, but to Article 5, and I assume that they, since it was a telephone session, probably confused or not heard what was supposed to say that it was 5, not 6. Let's get back to the amendment. I asked again to apply the term "single" instead of the term "sequence", because "single" means that two things have absolutely the same meaning, if "sequence", then one thing follows the other. So the meaning itself is different and they don't have to be within. In an explanation for Article 5, not for Article 6, Mr. Minister, correct and where they are telling you, they say: ''Also, the notion of 'equity', whose introduction is proposed by this amendment, has essentially no meaning of the internationally recognised concept of 'traceability', whose meaning is assumed by this point of the bill. 'Well, why don't you say, people, it's "traissibile"?- I'm sorry. It's a pure Serbian word, the original Serbian word from the heart of Shumadia, so let's now use that word in a simple conversation, in a jargon when we meet. Oh, Tracybilly! Just like yesterday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39527	The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39528	I have submitted an amendment to the Metrology Act on Article 7 in order to delete it on point 1. The reason is that the term "time distribution" as one of the jobs that is in the jurisdiction of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals does not make sense, because time is not a category that can be distributed or given to someone in any way. The government explains the non-acceptance of amendments in the following way – The Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals maintains the UTC time scale, as well as the reference time and frequency of the Republic of Serbia and its traceability to the international level. The weather signal distribution system via the television network has been destroyed in NATO bombing, so there is no time scale distribution now. Gentlemen, this afternoon we are opening a Tower on Avala, which has been brought down by our friends (under question) from NATO and the EU. Will they be at the opening today to open up the possibility to send, or distribute time to Western Europe, or to the EU? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39529	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39530	Ladies and gentlemen, if a company or institution dealing with the certification of a work permit expires, under this bill, it has a legal obligation to apply for an extension of the authorisation of a new authorisation three months before the expiry of the valid authorisation. If the ministry does not respond to that request, if there is silence of the administration, the existing permit shall be valid for the next three years. I believe this may be the subject of great abuse. It may occur that someone provides a certain connection in the ministry, someone who does not meet the conditions to continue to deal with this job, that someone in the ministry is automatically pushing a permit into the drawer, this institution, or this firm, is given the opportunity to deal with this business for the next three years. In order to avoid the possibility of abuse, I have submitted an amendment suggesting that the old existing authorisation should be valid for a maximum period of three months after the expiry of the previous authorisation. The ministry rejected this amendment, explaining that it is not clear enough, that it is not complete, so I will now take advantage of the opportunity for Serbian citizens to read the amendment, so let them conclude whether there is something here that is unclear. "If the ministry fails to decide on the date of expiry of the period on which the solution has been issued, the authorised body may continue to carry out the certification tasks, based on the existing solution, and for the longest three months from the day the solution expires. "It's clearer that it can't be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39531	The subtitle above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have filed before the New Serbia Parliamentary Group an amendment to Article 12, where we are asking for a subtitle above Articles 12 and Article 12 to be deleted. The explanation of the amendments reads: "We find it unnecessary to set up a macroeconomic advice from as many as seven members, because it is an increase in public spending, unnecessary burden on budget users, and these tasks should be carried out by the Directorate. As presented by the law, "The Council has no clear work tasks and no efficiency can be seen from the idea of forming this body" and therefore it is not necessary. In any case, this will be another political body that will be a budgetary user, and given that the law on metrology is a law that treats an area that is clearly regulated on the world level, defined and does not suffer any kind of improvisation, we believe that the introduction of seven other party paid people is really unnecessary and specifically determined by such a bill. We believe that this amendment should have been accepted and that once again the need to create this number of councils, the need to create so many administrative jobs that serve nothing but pay, and you know well that in this particular part, which you are always looking forward to, the EU has requested that public spending be reduced. If we look at over 1,500 different paid party officials asking to be allowed to exempt from the law that treats the return of at least one function, then we understand exactly what this member of the law is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39533	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39534	This Article 13 paragraph 2 is not fully applicable, because this law clearly determines the units of measurement, we will not be able to change anything on our own and introduce some of our measuring systems, and their uses are prescribed. There is also an international system of units used in accordance with this law. What I was reacting for is that this attitude contains a completely illiterate syntagma, which says, "The government is getting closer." This law does not govern the government any closer, but one word significantly changes the meaning of an entire member of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39535	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39536	And this amendment is "traissibilites" compared to the previous two amendments, it has the same meaning, because it treats the same word and the same term used in this law. I used this old Serbian word, which means I'm adapting, and I'm going to be using European standards at the assembly session with you, or just before you in Europe, which means the SRS will be with me before you in Europe. However, the issue remains when we are introduced together with Kosovo, then we will go to Europe. Without Kosovo, Serbia has nothing to look for in Europe. Let's go back now, since there's a reason here for not accepting the amendment to Article 6. It says: 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason that Article 5 paragraph 1 of point 7 of the bill means the concept of 'coherence' taken over from the International Dictionary of Fundamental and General Terms in the methodology... '' etc., ''which, among other things, is used as an international document in the drafting of the bill, to create conditions for meeting the requirements for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and in the European Union (EU). ''Well, was this the only brake we haven't entered the EU by now?- I'm sorry. Is it, perhaps, that corruption found by the Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as the State Audit Institute in some ministries? Is it corruption that every party, apart from the SRS, has its own boss and mentor, so, the one who pays it? Is it something else? Now, here, right now, traceability, if it's not traceability, then we don't enter the EU, if it's unequivocal, God forbid, it's inscribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39537	Thank you. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic, who wants to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39538	I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 paragraph 3 which is changing and should read: "The decision of Article 1 of this Article shall be made provided that the reference is to specify a measurement unit of some physical size with an error whose probability is to appear within the predetermined range, so that it serves as a reference and that its metrological characteristics are uniformly defined, in order to compete with international ethlons or with national ethlons of other countries. "The explanation is as follows: ''The materialized measure cannot even be treated as an etalon if it is not even calibrated at the same time, because the evaluation of measuring instruments in a technical sense represents the determination of the characteristic relationship between the number of values of the measured physical size (which acts on the instrument) and the corresponding position of the indicator of the instrument itself. ''The frequency of errors in measurement is covered by the laws of probability, according to which it is always possible to prescribe some likely extent of its occurrence during measurement, which is a much more appropriate term than the term associated with measurement uncertainty, which is listed in this article by the legislator. Given that the word "continuity" is not in the spirit of Serbian language, it is necessary to replace it with the word "single meaning", which paints most precisely what the lawmaker wanted to point out in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39539	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39540	Thank you. In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14(4) to change and to say "3) to ensure the uniformity of macroeconomic characteristics for the purpose of compatibility with international ethlons or with national ethlons of other countries". The explanation – given that the word traceability is not in the spirit of the Serbian language, needs to be replaced by the word unambiguousness, which best reflects what the legislator wanted to point out in this article. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Milan Nikolic explained quite well by saying what this word traceability means. On the Committee on Science and Technological Development, we tried to convince government representatives that this word is not in the spirit of the Serbian language, or that it does not indicate what is meant to be said about this measuring unit and the measuring instrument. But wanting to use international expressions about measuring units, expressions from other peoples, well, they probably used expressions from their professional magazines, and so they took this word "continuity". I must honestly tell you that in the Russian literature, which I most use, especially about measuring units, this word does not exist, but, in fact, there is "singleness". Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39541	Eighty-eighth session of the Legislative Committee will take place today, 21 April 2010, at 11.30 p.m., in Hall I in Parter. We're going back to work. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Savic is not here to explain the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 17. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Braddick, please. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39542	I accept this amendment, because it's about the fact that there's obviously no word missing from the crash, which is "time intervals". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39543	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Zhivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39544	In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 to amend Article 2 and to read as follows: ''The results of the measurements obtained by applying the criteria set out in Article 1 of this Article must possess unequivocally defined metrological characteristics, in order to compete with international ethlons or with national ethlons of other countries covered by the Agreement on mutual recognition of national ethlons and assurances of etalonisation and measurement issued by national macroeconomic institutes (CIPM MRAs). ''The explanation is the same as it was for Article 14, given that the word 'continuity' is not in the spirit of Serbian, I believe that, instead of this word, 'equity' is more appropriate and more adequate for our use. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39545	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39546	I'm just going to briefly comment on this member of the law. What we asked for with the amendment in Article 25(2) is that after the word "Minister" the point is deleted and the words "based on the Marks Act" are added. Because this is how a perceived attitude tells us that it is the minister who can determine something in this law. It's all clearly defined here. I've already said that, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. It's the minister who's only technically conducting, so I think he should have been called into this article and the law that obliges him to do it technically.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39547	Thank you. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 38th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39548	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few words about a few amendments submitted by the SNS. The goal was to transfer this supervision left to the Ministry's jurisdiction under the law. It seems inappropriate for an institution to control itself in some way and to control the entire area completely. We have very bad experience with some agencies that have also controlled themselves, and I don't think we should pass on this bad experience to any of the following legal projects. In particular, this face that needs to be controlled is a fact-finding inspector. It controls the criteria, the method of use and a series of procedures regarding these criteria. That person, therefore, is a fact-finding inspector, and it would be logical for the ministry, issued by that official administration, who is registered by that person who has the right to exercise control, to be also competent, to be a controller and to run that inspection service. The amendments that remain are in this context and follow that intensities – that the inspection supervision still be under the control of the ministry. We will no longer report to these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39549	The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 40th Amendment has submitted to Serbia's Progressive Group has submitted to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 45th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 47. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39550	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39551	Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population: Nikola Krpić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Simo Vuković, Paja Momčev, Miroslava Miladović, Mirjanović, Dušanović, Dušanović, Dušanović, Dušanović, Žalić. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At the session of the Health and Family Committee, MP Dušanka Plecevic withdrew the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. National MP Nikola Krpić, written on 19 April 2010, withdrew the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I cross over specifically to explain the amendment to Article 1 that I submitted on behalf of the SRS, I must make two general remarks. We don't mind that here when a debate is being held about the Bill on the Protection of Population against exposure to tobacco smoke and the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and the Minister responsible for Culture and Information, but above all it would be necessary for the Minister of Health to be here, because there is a need. In addition to being able to adopt a certain amendment after the amendment has been discussed, it can also give specific clarifications and visions to the Government on this issue, and this would certainly have a more significant impact on those people to whom these laws apply. The second remark, I don't like to talk about it, always turns out if some amendment isn't accepted that it wasn't accepted because it was submitted by an opposition parliamentary group, but I will show when I explain the amendment to Article 1. A bill to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, that's exactly the way it is. Article 1 The bill reads: "This law regulates the restrictions on the use of tobacco products to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, control of smoking bans and control of the implementation of this law. That is, therefore, in the bill of law. We have suggested that Article 1 reads: "This law regulates the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, control of smoking bans and supervision of the implementation of this law. ''The difference between the bill and what we have proposed in the amendment is the most about this: 'This law regulates restrictive measures', it is in the bill of law, and we suggest that it says, 'This law regulates the protection of the population.' I am absolutely sure that it is a much more adequate term, term or these few words that say "the protection of the population from exposure to tobacco smoke is being arranged". Control of smoking bans and supervision of the application of this law is something that is later foreseen by further provisions of this law and nothing changes there. This is a law that has no political character in itself, in its nature, but it seems to me that there was politics and that there were a lot of compromises in its proposal. All MP groups were to agree on this law. We had to first have one agreement on how we see a solution to these problems, and these are really big problems, because exposure to tobacco smoke leads, above all, to cardiovascular and malignant diseases. We need to protect society, we need to act preventively, first of all, towards young people who have not yet started to consume tobacco smoke, but we need to take care of those who have already been deeply trampled, who are simply users of tobacco smoke, we need to see how this could be solved. Obviously, the Minister of Health, because the Ministry, in itself, is a state institution that could not be actively involved in this, did not seem to have, I think, the best intention to solve this problem, so from further provisions of this law, it is clear that the bill, i.e. this law in general, is a compromise between the Ministry of Health, or the Minister of Health, and a large number of catering facilities. I think that there was a significant impact on cigarette manufacturers or a group of people who earn huge funds based on this. Also, I think that the provisions of the tobacco law should have been followed more consistently and that this law could achieve a much greater goal than will now be achieved by such a bill. It may be good that some actions and campaigns, led by each individual, and the desire to stop using tobacco smoke, reduce the number of adults and youth alike, and it is especially important to reduce the number of young people who are in a position to watch daily use, or consume tobacco smoke in their families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39553	Thank you. Gentlemen, I would just like to inform you that the Minister of Health, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, is ill and that this is one of the reasons why he is not present, is in the hospital, so that is one of the reasons why he is not, as a representative of the promoter, present. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Here you go, Mr. Shami. (National Ambassador Paja Momchilov, from the post: I wanted to speak as an authorised representative. You wanted to follow the previous amendment? (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic, from the place: The time left? ) Please know what time it is and never when we move on to a discussion in detail do we read the time. You may, however, have heard from Mr. Shami, so I'll give you my word right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39554	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the debate in principle, I have made the DSS's views that it is a law that should be very carefully written, carefully in terms of the defence of three types of human rights: non-smoking rights to be in a non-smoking area, the right of smokers to have some space where the smoking and rights of interested persons are allowed, therefore, the host, the organizers of cultural, sports and other events that have their own interest as their guests and smokers and non-smokers. On that occasion, I cited some principled reasons why I think the law is not good and the DSS in this regard submitted 25 amendments to the text of the law. I must admit that this is probably the first law where I wrote 25 amendments, and where the government, or the competent ministry, has not accepted any. In that sense, I am very sorry that Mr. Minister is not here, by the way, I wish him a quick recovery, I have nothing against Mr. Bradic's present minister, the last time we met here was when we adopted that famous information law, so now Mr. Bradic, neither guilty nor obliged to attend the adoption of another same famous law. I will try, although the minister is not here, I don't think there will be any effect, to explain why I think the DSS amendments should be accepted. When it comes to a concrete amendment to Article 2, we have proposed to make changes to point 5, I have to read point 5, because this is really one of many examples, let me say, some meaningless provisions in this law, saying, "A closed space is made of any material that has a roof or ceiling," it goes on, "which is immoveable or mobile", which we suggested to delete, for a simple reason, which, if the ceiling is open, then that moment is not a closed space. You have many, for example, catering facilities that keep the ceiling open during the summer of three months, so it's quite clear that it's open space. Therefore, it cannot be treated as a closed space. That's the first thing we asked to change. Then, in the following text, it says: "doors, windows and passages that have been completely closed either permanently or temporarily". It's the same story again. Again you have objects, you have such examples in Belgrade hundreds, which have some summer gardens, which are winter-closed space, and it flies open space. Then, when space is open, there's no reason to treat it like a closed space again. It is further in this attitude, he says, "or a space where less than half of the surface of the outer walls of that space consists of holes in which windows and doors are not counted. "This is completely pointless. Which opens it in some closed space exists, except for windows and doors? So we asked, of course, to erase that too. This doesn't get into the essence of the law, it gets into some of the most elemental logic and what's written here is simply illogical, so we asked it to change. I would pray, for further discussion, for one explanation, whether present Mr. Minister and Madam, whom I assume is from the Ministry of Health, have the authority to accept some of our amendments or are we just talking about this for the record? And that's something, though, one day someone's going to read it, and they're going to laugh at the nonsense that stands in the proposed text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39555	Mr. Shami, since you sat in this place, you know well that the government's presence is never formal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39556	Three minutes at the expense of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39557	Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39558	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable President of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will now be wasting my time as the mandated representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group. In the principle debate, we have made it clear that we cannot vote on both laws, which are extremely important. I think it's been stressed enough, which is why both laws are important. In principle, we in the SRS consider the debate to be interesting, comprehensive and that it has shown that Parliament, from time to time, can also serve its purpose, which is that in the exchange of views of the opposers, comes to the best, or to try to reach the best legal solutions. However, at the very beginning of our session today, we are very skeptical that this will happen. We see here that the government has delegated Mr. Culture Minister, who should be with us to conduct a discussion in detail. I have no doubt of Mr. Culture Minister's honorable intentions, which sits in this place and allows himself to be competent and authorized by the government to discuss with us very professional issues that are covered, I would say with both laws and far more with the drug law. I also understand that it is possible that Mr. Minister of Health, Tomica Milosavljevic, is sick and is prevented, it is a higher power and there is nothing that can be done, but it is irresponsible for the government to send us here to discuss the system law, as Mr. Health Minister baptizes him, Minister of Culture. Just to remind you, those of you who are for Euro-Atlantic integration, who are for world standards, have been passed laws and reforms of health care in America. Obama, the president of the state, actively took part in the debate in front of the public of the United States, in a debate she sought for several hours. For four and more hours, he exchanged views with members of Congress. What do I mean? I want to say very clearly -- if this government and its prime minister values this parliament and the importance of Serbia's citizens' health, then in the inability of the prime minister's arrival, it is at least a minimum gesture, which would demonstrate the will to give importance and health to Serbian citizens. In this way, Mr. Bradic, who took place from the theatre, puts himself in a very awkward situation so that he now participates in the performance of "theatra absurda", that he should be with us to conduct a professional debate at the highest level. If he doesn't mind, there's nothing we can do about it, but personally, I think his position, too, is that he's playing icaban here, and he's not responding to it. But to get back to the more important things to point out here. You see, why are these two laws unusually important to Serbian citizens? And we're talking to Mr. Bradic, so he doesn't think this criticism is personally directed to him. The drug law is a system law, a fundamental law on which health care rests, and the smoking law is, again, important because smoking is estimated in the world to be the single most important risk factor affecting the health of Serbian citizens. In the debate in principle, Mr. Minister has told us a few facts that we can hardly agree on and which I think we should clarify before we move on to the discussion of the individual members of this law that is before us. Mr. Minister has finished his presentation in words – thank you for the constructive and congratulating citizens for having a Assembly that is able to discuss tobacco smoke as if it were a hundred years of tradition of a normal parliamentary debate, not just ten years. A normal parliamentary debate has been in Serbia since the early 19th century, not just the last ten years. Many will not agree, I have nothing against it, but as a participant of parliament, some others have been in some other parliaments, sitting down, we should say that a normal parliamentary debate has been conducted not only in the last ten years, but also before. It's now a side-by-side dyspression. Who's in the way? Who doesn't mind, it doesn't matter. The basic problem of Serbian society and health care is that it must be seen that the biological integrity of Serbian citizens is at stake. Every year, 35,000 of us are less for two reasons, the white plague, therefore, a little bit of talent, which we will neglect, which should be solved by common forces, united. The whole society must contribute to that. The second reason is high general mortality. General mortality at the planetary level is a thousand citizens – 10 and 14 in Serbia. What affects that mortality? Chronic non-infectious diseases that are preventable. We don't have high mortality because we're old society, we are old and old, but it's too much mortality from chronic non-infectious diseases. Mr. Minister told us, about, this – today from heart attack and acute coronary disease dies 13.6 less than ten years ago. Today, death in the coronary units has been halved. And he said one more thing - today he is less sick than tuberculosis, and Serbia on the map of Europe, from the Atlantic to the Caucasus, has at least the money per capita except Albania. To be clear, neither is true nor is true. I read and did not get an answer, when the debate was held in principle, the 2008 Batuta Report, which speaks of an increase in general mortality in Serbia over the last five years and which says that the increase in cardiovascular disease is 1.6 in this period. These numbers, said the minister, where can we find them? Nowhere. The constant flossula, which keeps repeating, that from the Atlantic to the Urals per capita, we single out, except Albania, at least, is absolutely incorrect. I hold in my hand the 2009 World Health Organization European Department Report. Fifty countries are covered by the monitoring of different data. An interesting thing, when you look at page 159 of this report, where a table is shown how much GDP per capita is shown, all countries have given except for Serbia-Montenegro, what it amounts to. However, if you go to the World Health Organization database, you will see that this data amounts to over $10,000 in 2008. I can tell you, 22 countries in the European region and this table have less income per capita. I won't read them. That's the elemental truth. If a man would like to see not national income per capita, but to watch health leave, in the same Report, on page 162, you will see that when it comes to Serbia, we have information that it is $395 per capita per year, but I must warn you, 11 European countries in this table have fewer isolations. It's no longer a flossule that we single out the least and that's incorrect. As no one will accept that the biological threat of Serbia's population is something that is intolerable and must be the primary task of the Serbian government to overcome such an unfavourable situation. It's something I was obliged to say at first. You see, when we talked about the Smoking Act, it is clear that this is the most harmful individual risk factor for cardiovascular and malignant citizen diseases. We are fully aware that Serbian citizens are smoking an annual health budget of about a billion and a half euros. That's quite clear. We also understand that the financial effects of tobacco growing, production and spending in our country only lead to negative financial effects per country. If we look at 2008, 133 million dollars was traffic of tobacco and tobacco products in exchange with abroad, and of which: exports were lost at 45 million and imports of 88 million. Double as we import and extract tobacco and tobacco products. It is also true that when we discussed the principle that we agreed, we can agree on two things. Nobody here said tobacco was harmful. The Minister of Health said the time had come to take great steps. He also defined it as a disease of addiction, along with alcoholism and drug use. That's right. The World Health Organization places this problem in addiction. However, after the debate, if we add up what could be heard in this home, it is that we have constricted positions of smokers who insist on being allowed to continue smoking in particularly separate rooms, working and public, and secondly, it seems to me to be a small part of the MPs, who have advocated the absolute persecution of smoking from public premises and work space. We have this interesting situation, the unresolved, the pata-pata, and I was free to say that this law is not supported by Serbian radicals because it brings absolutely nothing new and, because the old law is shorter, simpler and clearer, and could have been collated, with little repairs, to be complemented and to reconcile in this situation all the opposing views and views in our Serbian society. Therefore, that is the main reason Serbian radicals will absolutely not vote for these laws. You see, when we talk about the drug law, there was absolutely no need for a broader debate when we discussed it in principle. The drugs are publicly good, just to remind you. The social importance of the drugs is high, and ultimately it brings about a healthy and productive life for Serbian citizens. I know health isn't everything, but I also know that without health it's almost nothing. It is important to point out, from an economic age, that we spend 500m euros on drugs and, interestingly, far more paying for medicines from our pocket than we pay for prescription drugs. The World Health Organization warns of counterfeit drugs that slaughter the world market. It is estimated that 15% of the drug market is filled with counterfeit drugs. What does that mean? I'm not gonna say that right now. Maybe I'll look back on that later. In Africa, in South America, 30% of the market is thought to be flooded with false drugs. And Europe itself, according to World Health Organization experts, who said in Belgrade, only last year paid the citizens $148 billion for compensation. He's dying from his meds. The World Health Organization estimates that 6% of the Earth's deaths were caused by drugs. Therefore, there is a serious problem, and the solutions that have been made are completely out of Europe, are completely out of world and civilization. In particular, we will be able to convince you. I will be very sorry that because of Mr. Minister's objective incompetence, which I normally respect, we will not be able to conduct a debate that is appropriate to someone who pleads to be European, citizen of the world, European. Whatever you want. Thank you. I used my 15 minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39559	Mr. Minister Nebojsa Bradic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39560	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we recently talked about the second set of laws in the field of culture, where I was pleased to commend the constructive discussion that was led by this occasion. That's important. Culture is also important in this sense in the message that comes from this place, especially when it comes to conventions that have to do with the preservation of heritage, presentation of heritage and similar initiatives from Serbia, it finds its own address where it should be. But what I have to say today is that I hear from several sources, but at the beginning of this discussion, something that I couldn't say, in any case, that's the principle of disqualification as a postament of every discussion. You give me one word, and I will drive you to the gallows. Here we can discuss different laws, but in a way that respects those present and that gives rise to this place. In his discussion, Mr. MP mentioned 'theatar of absurda'. I must admit that in this discussion I had the opportunity to hear there are elements of 'theatra absurda', but I must at the same time underline one thing that I know about 'theatra absurda' still a little better than Mr. MPs. I wouldn't say that if I didn't think that all the people in the cultural domain knew in their area, I'm sure, more than I do, whether it was the directors of institutions in the field of protection, directors of museums, institutes for the protection of cultural heritage, archives, libraries, theatres, people in the field of film and so on, but having good directors in those places makes it easier for every minister to be. So here we are talking about our laws that are the laws of the government. Of course, these laws have been prepared by professional services that this job is qualified to do, and I have the pleasure of sitting next to me two ladies who will give good comments during the discussion. What matters to us in the coming period is that we all try to get to the position that these laws will respect as our laws, not as laws proposed by one minister or one ministry, but as those laws of this government. I have great respect for everyone who sits in this place and I don't ask for that respect for myself, but simply because of everyone who listens to this, I expect that we will lead the discussion in another way in the next period. Mr. Minister Tomica Milosavljevic couldn't sit in my seat right now, or at my place, because he's lying in the hospital right now. That's a fact. I'm not happy that I have to answer questions that may not be within the scope of what I know in this area, but I assure you, and it's known that I've had a doctor in my family for more than 20 years, so I can interpret part of that environment myself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39561	Thank you. Indeed, I thank you for the content that we had the opportunity to hear, not only formally thank you. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39562	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is a replica, right, to what you said. I have a right to that, and I hope you do. You said my exposure puts you in a position to really believe it was "theatra absurda". Look what I've been doing. I convinced the course of the debate that was conducted at one of our sessions here, when we were in principle discussing these two laws. Then I read the World Health Organization's data and data from the Institute of Public Health, Batut. How absurd, I don't know. It may be for you. I believe that for you the fact that the biologically endangered citizen of Serbia today, perhaps the most endangered in Europe, is something that you didn't know and something that was absurd and you can't deal with, and I can understand that much of what you said. But you've gone a little too far with those gallows. Where did you get that? You don't need melodramatic moments to get into your discussion. Here, again, a professional can't get out of your shoe. We know that Mr. Minister was prevented from coming, and we all regret it, and we'd like him to recover as soon as possible. Who even commented in a bad way here? Don't make those melodramatic... I remain in my view, with all due respect to you and your work-off and what's left behind, that you are incompetent to discuss the drug law with us. It is a very specific, narrow matter, with many new integrated European Union directives, and I really don't think you can answer us there. What's the other problem? We've got two or three other problems going on. Those answers we received from professional services absolutely did not satisfy us. We will, of course, try now, in front of the public, to show whose attitudes are more absurd and whose attitudes are closer to real life and real facts. Don't be in any doubt. That's all I said. It's really weird for us to have you sitting here. We had one session and it's very interesting what's happening to us. When we passed five laws, a set of very important medical laws, we also didn't have a Mr. Minister present. It wasn't the hospital. There was no explanation. It's not necessary. And he sat for you, Mr. Chiplic, and he felt invited to say to himself that he was competent. In the towers, though. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39563	Thank you. People's MP, I would ask you not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by using the right to replication, and since you show a clear ignorance of the procedure of the session of the National Assembly, I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe who proposes the laws of the National Assembly. If you want the debate to run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then please remember carefully the members of the Rules of Procedure who define it for all participants of the session. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The government and the Family Committee have adopted this amendment. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39564	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have submitted an amendment, or Mr Dimitrijevic, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, to amend the words "no matter whether the vehicle of public transport is used with or without compensation", in the words "if the vehicle of public transport is used with compensation". In fact, it's about what the law once again says, in that 8th point, one pointless provision, which says "no matter whether the vehicle of public transport is used with a fee or without compensation is prohibited", we simply thought, first of all, if the vehicle, and watch out, I can own the vehicle and take ten of my friends to a football game or a wedding or somewhere, if we agree to smoke, why don't we smoke, if we all want to. So it's okay to be banned where passengers are accidentally collected, where they have to use that vehicle, etc., it's okay, and this if used for some personal purposes, why would it be forbidden. That's one thing. Another thing, in many places in the law are some provisions that can even be undeniable, but are inadmissible. Who's going to control that if I use the vehicle for personal purposes, whether someone smokes or doesn't smoke? This is already an example of the Traffic Safety Act, which is like that provision to prohibit pedestrians from making phone calls as they cross the street. It's okay that they don't need to make phone calls, except no one can control it alive. Practically, this provision is inadmissible. Look on the street mass, cross the street and phone, and no one can do anything to them, nor is anyone in charge of such a thing. Therefore, simply for the sake of the purity of the law, we have proposed this provision. This goes to the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39565	Anyone else want a word? National MP Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39566	I would just like to comment on this amendment by Mr. Dimitrievich, and now it has been included. Shami. I believe that this amendment cannot be accepted because you have, first of all, in the city of Belgrade public transport for which a particular population, primarily for social reasons, does not pay compensation. You have pensioners, so people over 65 who don't pay compensation, therefore, only for that reason did they have to split up with compensation and no compensation. So it's more technical, that's what it's all about. You mentioned the category of your own transport. We need to make a clear distinction between public transport and our own transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39567	Right on line, MP Zoran Shami, 50 seconds MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39568	A colleague, of course, can be found in public transport in a category of people who for some reason are exempt from payments, pensioners, disabled people, etc., but most people in that transport pay compensation. Therefore, they fall into the compensation category, not without compensation. Your argument, personally, is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39569	Anyone else want a word? If not to Article 3 of the amendment has been submitted by MP Zoran Shami? Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39570	Madam Chairman in Article 3(2), I will then say something about points 1 and 4, "Smoking is also prohibited in a space which, in the sense of this law, is not considered a closed public space, and which is a functional part of the space in which the work of health care, education and education is performed, social care for children, social protection, including the yard space, as well as open space for maintaining theatre, cinema and other types of performances. '"You know what, first of all, if it's a word, I agree that in schools you shouldn't smoke, you shouldn't smoke in hospitals either, but I'm sorry, who's going to control the area of the clinic center, the yard of the clinic center and forbid people to smoke. Who's the one who can provide that? I mean no one. Who's the one who can secure the school yard, can ban students, but the school yard gets us everyone, we even have problems with criminals, thugs, drug dealers, etc., and not, now, whether someone from the street is going to go into the school yard and smoke. And what can anyone do to him? Who's gonna be responsible for me walking into the school yard and smoking? I mean, I just don't see any reason to write something like that in this law. Secondly, if it's theater, cinema and other kinds of performances, first of all, if it's in the open space, why don't people smoke. That's the basic question. And, on the other hand, who's gonna control it? Who's going to control two thousand people or twenty thousand people who are at a concert at a Red Star stadium whether they smoke or not. I don't think we write things that are pointless. This is, I'm sorry, ma'am, I'm speaking to you, you probably have a share in these wisdoms. It is a completely pointless provision, which continues to point to what I pointed out in the debate in principle. Stop hating smokers! It's not your job to hate smokers. Smoking is not a criminal act. You can hate drug dealers. And I hate them, too, but don't waste smoking in places where nobody's bothered with it alive. What if someone in the football stadium smokes a cigarette, can someone stop it? It can't be prevented from bringing in a torch, let alone lighting a cigarette. So, of course, we suggested that it be deleted. Also, Article 4 states that a responsible person is required to secure this area without tobacco smoke. And, now, watch out, "as well as to ensure that no tobacco products and ashtrays are fired in that room. '"Let's say, I walk down the street by some school and throw my ass in the school yard – what now, the director is responsible for me throwing the cigarette? I'm rude, of course, but it's not done, but the real director can't be held responsible if he finds a cigarette in the school yard. Nonsense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39571	Minister Nebojsa Bradic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39572	One small replica relative to the theatre and music plays in the open air. As you know, the audience's concentration in such places and their concentration towards the event is that someone who participates in that act, whether it's about the audience and the theatre, if he sits next to you as a smoker can endanger you and cause a certain reaction in the theatre itself, that I don't say that there have been such cases. So other species are free events in the open, like concerts, where audiences can walk and normally choose for themselves their own space that will be used to observe and participate in the event, but if the event doesn't mean that the audience is scattered, it is, on the contrary, focused and just one smoker sitting next to you can jeopardize your right to watch the show, if you have a bought ticket. I'm a retired smoker so I can't share your confidence – that in that sense smoking is something that doesn't endanger the very act of cultural events.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39573	He has the right to the replica of MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39574	Thank you. I'll read you carefully what it says here -- "as well as open space to maintain theatre, cinema and other kinds of performances. '"So, the crowd was walking, not walking, she couldn't smoke. I don't see why, if it's open space? That's one thing. Secondly, sir, it is fortunate that you are the Minister of Culture and that you are a theatre man – is it in your interest that in the theater, which I suppose lives for the viewers, the largest number or half of the audience does not come to the show? I won't go first, because I'm not going to the theater like I'm going to an arrest. I want to spend my time at the theater, I want to watch the show, and I want to take a break to have a place where I can smoke, especially if it's in the open space. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39575	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Bradic. Please, just press the key once.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39576	It's not just about participants who are audiences. This is about the performers. Very precise standards are defined in which certain performers should have certain conditions in which they perform artistic content, such as opera singers. An opera singer in a smoking environment won't sing to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39577	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39578	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to use the time that the party has and use this part of the discussion to ask Mr. Secretary a question. I believe the vice president, given that she had an inspired discussion in the principle debate, which, if I have to say, I support 100 percent, will have little tolerance as a smoker for what I want to ask Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, you're a retired smoker, and I, unfortunately, am not. I would accept, for punishment, that I go from school to school to talk to every young man about the harmfulness of tobacco smoke and all that, however, we still come to some examples here where there is little hypocrisy in the state. Of course, I don't want to talk about it – that tobacco is not forbidden, that the state takes money from tobacco, from excises and everything else. Here, in a way, since there was a discussion here, and whether you are competent or not, I don't think you should talk about it at all, but as a people -- you've already talked about the idea that it bothers opera singers, as I understand it, some. I respect that. Are you going to change the scripts and all the plays that only smoke in the show, where actors sit and smoke, say, because it's such a drama, such a scene? Is that what you've been thinking about? I don't want to talk about movies. Now all films should be banned where actors smoke, war film, and people smoke, someone says better citizens and smoke than Bensedin. Okay, I'm not going that far. This is what I'm really interested in, and I'm really asking on purpose, for example, when in the performance of actors and actresses right now in some scene they're smoking, are they also banned, and what kind of consequences can they have on artistic life? One play, i.e. you need me to tell you how much it's made, now you need to change everything and the script, because now it's going to be contrary to this law, as it's written. I'd really like an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39579	Since the time of the authorised representative, two minutes and ten seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) There is a word from the People's Messenger Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39580	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use a little time from the MP's group because I would like to repeat some of the findings that we have made in the principle debate, as an MP's club, without being in defense of the subsequent amendment, because of the public following this transmission, so as not to get the wrong impression. As Parliament Club Forward Serbia, we absolutely believe, I repeat, that this law is necessary, but the same thing we said in the principle debate, we are for a law that needs to be balanced, to respect all non-smoking rights, not to be exposed to tobacco smoke. That's absolutely not controversial. Every discussion we have wants to, in defense of the amendments we're going to make, respect that fact. We just wanted balance, giving amendments, to separate the smokers from the place and in an appropriate way the space where they can smoke. It is absolutely in the interest of both sides, and non-smokers who have healthy air without the danger of exposure to tobacco smoke, and on the other hand, that smokers have their own space where they will use their habit to celebrate. So it's absolutely useful both ways. In that sense, we also spoke in principle of the debate, as well as here for the amendments, to find a solution to make this law balanced and applicable. If it's too rigid, it'll certainly be over time, and then I said, there's a growing population that's going to lead to a violation of the law. We are the same for the law to be passed and respected, when it has already been brought in, but I repeat, that our discussions should not be understood as a non-smoking attack. And even if we're smokers, we don't want to jeopardize non-smoking health. Don't let us look at ourselves as smokers and non-smokers, but if we respect your rights, respect ours. And, in that sense, we have submitted amendments. Here, when an analysis of all the amendments was made, although it was a principle debate, practically, in that principle debate and later in the discussion there was absolutely no goodwill and despite some of our arguments, which we thought was good, of the 62 amendments submitted 59 was rejected, three were adopted. It's about these playrooms. In these 59 amendments in different variants, different MPs, different parliamentary groups, there have been proposals and attempts to resolve this problem in this law, but apparently, the government has set out strictly to ensure that absolutely no amendments are accepted. Of course, there are reasons that I am not reading, calling and listing countries where there are absolutely no smoking, such as Britain, Ireland, and then 18 countries where there are partially and depending on the amendments, all these facts are listed, so in 2012, it seems to me that a law on a complete ban on smoking will have to be passed. We also said that the question of how it all works in those Western countries. And there are a lot of violations of those laws about smoking, but let's just put that aside, and I'll come forward later on with the other amendments. This amendment relating to Article 3 where we propose that paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 be deleted, I will not explain it because my colleague Shami explained it, in terms of open courtyard space, and therefore, not to say again, we have given a similar explanation, and then in this article we have asked for one transformation in the sense that the owner, i.e. the user of the space referred to in Article 1, can determine the room in which the smoking is allowed, under the conditions prescribed by this law. In other words, we have suggested that in this list institutions in which smoking should absolutely be banned, where there will be an obvious and certain problem for many smokers working in those places, to provide a space that would be separate and where they could smoke. We wanted to enable and create space. In response, to quote two or three sentences of reasons why this amendment was rejected, and of course the intensity is clear that the ban in all the areas listed to be smoking, says – it must ensure the highest degree of health protection, i.e. the absence of the influence of tobacco smoke on their health. Well, what we say is the same. If you provide room for smokers anywhere, you have protected all non-smokers, are isolated and practically this line of reasoning has no purpose, because our proposal is also to protect non-smokers, and in some ways also to respect our rights. Also, a sentence in reason – every law aims to raise awareness of the harmfulness of tobacco use. Every law we've passed has a preventive effect. That's absolutely clear to us. Here, however, no good will has been shown to find a solution and this amendment to Article 3 has been rejected. I think hearing should have been found, especially as some MPs and the ruling coalition spoke alike, which was clear to all of us that there was no political colour here, but it was about resolving the specific situation between people, which should be regulated legally, with respect for all rights and smokers and non-smokers, and third parties. We believe this amendment should be adopted. Among other things, and now I've noticed, there may be a technical error, in this position 6, which we said was deleted, you say that a special room should meet the conditions given in Article 6 paragraphs 3 to 9. In Article 6, we don't have nine views, we have seven views, so maybe it's a technical error. I'd like to point out that, and I can see that none of us are, and I'm, like, now, looking into it, to make it right, at least, that mistake. You can check it out. So, members of six to seven positions. Is there? All right, then. Here, my colleague tells me, but I wanted to point that out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39581	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39582	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have submitted another amendment to Article 3. It was signed by Mr Dimitrijevic. It is the 5th position where, among other things, it is stated by the indents in which closed workplaces by type of activity are not allowed to smoke. We have suggested that paragraphs 1, 6 and 10 be deleted and that the words "media" be deleted in indent 11. Now I'm going to explain it. Paragraph 1 says "State administration and local self-government". First of all, I don't see why there's a difference between employees in a company, a company, institutions and government employees. Personally, I think that all workers have the same rights and I don't see any reason why in the authorities of the state administration and local self-government they wouldn't be able to predict the areas in which smoking is allowed, under the conditions prescribed by this law. That's the first thing. Secondly, if it was a culture, we were just talking about why theatre visitors wouldn't be able to have some space in the break where smokers can get together and smoke and, of course, that in no way threaten non-smoking rights, which will have some other space where smoking is forbidden. I'm starting from the assumption that people are going to the theater to, I say, have a good time, have fun, not go to the theater like they're in an arrest. Social nutrition. If space satisfies social nutrition, it satisfies certain conditions, why should it not be allowed under conditions that apply to other catering facilities that exist in that area where to smoke? So, I don't see a reason. I also don't see the reason in indent 11, he says:'media and the space where the recording and public broadcasting is being done', well, in the space where the recording and public broadcasting was never even smoked, that's fine. But why in an office where a journalist edits a desk wouldn't be allowed to smoke, if it's about smokers, or why, again, wouldn't there be some separate smoking space? I don't see any reason that in this way some people who are employed in this kind of facility wouldn't be able to smoke in a smoking area. Of course, I don't mind that in health care institutions, education and so on, it's forbidden to smoke, it's quite clear for understandable reasons, but, when it comes to these jobs, about this kind of institution, I don't see why it would be banned. I remind you that it is worth passing a law that will respect all human rights. Gentlemen, you don't respect the human rights of smokers, you don't respect them, you want to take their money, the state takes their big money on excises, taxes and everything, but, excuse me, smoking, reminding you, it's not a criminal store and stop treating smokers like criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39583	Three minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. National MP Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39584	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I must remind you that last year in this house we passed the Public Health Act, practically, one of the key system laws in the field of health. Why is this law important? Because it is after a long period of relying on the overall responsibility for public health of the population at the Ministry of Health, we have thus defined that this responsibility, apart from the Ministry of Health, is borne by other factors in the state and society, and above all by local self-government, state institutions, both at the local and republican level. In this regard, I understood that restrictions in terms of smoking bans in institutions, such as state administration, local self-government, then, institutions that have a particularly important public health significance in terms of the message, such as cultural institutions, absolutely law must be restrictive there. It seems to me that through the adoption of the Law on Public Health, and this law, among other things, by the responsibility passed, comes from this law, we must finally understand that all public-health problems, which we have today, must be shared responsibility, both for MPs sitting in this house and for people who are employed in the state administration, for local self-government, for cultural institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39585	Since the time of the authorised representative, a minute and 30 seconds have been used. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39586	Dear Chairman, I believe this amendment should be rejected for the following reasons. By passing this law, we need to work on one raise of consciousness, which is obviously still on a very low level, about what smoking is and what harmfulness smokes. We had a principle debate where we made all the arguments, both for and against. I think it's clear to everyone, as far as smoking is concerned, there's no dilemma. I think there's one thesis that needs to be clearly defined, so we don't make one replacement. As for smoking itself and the harmfulness it causes, smoking has been defined, and here we agreed with colleague Pai Momchilov that it was a disease of addiction. Here we are chasing the concepts of restricting rights and freedom and what this society needs to do to fight disease addiction. We need to work on the issue of education and education and raising awareness that smoking is harmful and that it is another category. We mustn't confuse it with the notion of limiting the rights and freedom of a man. We MPs, as the first representatives of the government and the people to choose them, may not understand the problem, to explain the weight of the problem of smoking, because it is socially acceptable, but it is not visible how harmful it is. It is our obligation to be carriers, promoters of each other's stories that will indicate just about all the harmfulness. For this very reason, it is unacceptable that institutions representing the state in some way are: state administration, local self-government, education, health care and everything else that is stated, and this amendment proposes to delete individuals, but MPs and just the bearers in a certain way state authorities and officials working in the country should be promoters of another healthy lifestyle. I just don't think that's why this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39587	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Zoran Shami, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39588	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, Mr. Martynski, I had Joseph Broz raise my mind for 40 years and change years before he died. There's really no need to say what you're saying. I expect you now to suggest that Serbian tobacco factories be expelled, tobacco factories shut down in Serbia, that everyone who smokes be put in jail. No, no, you're very intolerant. I'm advocating tolerance, and you're advocating intolerance and you're still telling me about the level of consciousness. Just don't tell me about the level of consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39589	Right on line, MP Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39590	Dear fellow Shami, with all due respect, it seems that for 40 years it wasn't enough to raise awareness and we'll have to continue for another 40 years, you'll have to quit smoking and experience those 40 years. That's exactly what we have to raise awareness of. This isn't about intolerance. This is about spreading information on the harmfulness of smoking. Don't replace "smoker damage" and "smoker freedom." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39591	MP Zoran Shami, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39592	I promise you, Mr. Martynski, that in 40 years, when I'm 102 years old, I certainly won't smoke. I'm not replacing anything with thesis. We agreed, I made it very clear, that there is no need to discuss whether smoking is harmful or not, but let me do some harmful things too. I can assure you that in your life, you've been doing some harmful things, too, it wouldn't be directed to say that, but I doubt there's a living man who's only been doing things that haven't been harmful since he was born. After all, I will remind you of the words, now the late academic dushan canazir, who said that living is not healthy, because a man is slowly dying since he was born, which, given your profession, you certainly know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39593	The People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkov, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39594	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The damage to smoking was the topic in the discussion in principle, now and in the discussion in detail. It's something no one's questioning. No one, Mr. Shami, prevents you from doing harmful things, only the problem is that the harmful things you do are not only endangering your health, but are endangering the health of those who may not want to harm their body in such a way. It's exactly the moment with these smokers' rights when they start to endanger the health of non-smokings and thus put their rights above the rights of non-smokers. And it's precisely the intention of this law to bring that kind of relationship to light. We had further here in the discussion, I think Dr. Knezevic was saying that because of the excessive restrictions of this law, the number of populations that would violate the law will grow. That might be true, you'll see. It all depends on how the law goes and what kind of restrictive policy it is and how sanctioning it is, whether it will be possible to break the law massively. However, there is also the possibility that because of the great restrictiveness of this law, the growth and population that may cease to smoke, as shown in countries that have such restrictive laws, that a large number of people, at a time when they can't smoke at work, can't smoke in a cafe, in a restaurant, simply ceases to smoke, because it is so simple, which is the intensity of this law, which speaks of the great harm of smoking. Mr. Shami, you may not go to the theater because you can't smoke there, but someone might go to the theater, so they won't smoke, so maybe when they get home, they'll stop smoking. I think the purpose of this law will be fulfilled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39595	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39596	Miss Jerkov, in no word has she ever done it, and I don't think any MP in this room has done it either as a smoker or as a smoker, I haven't advocated a smoker's right to smoke in a non-smoking area. All I do is advocate the right of a smoker to grant them some space where smokers will be gathered to smoke. No more than that. So what you're saying is simply a small card scam. It's about providing room to smoke. Where it bothers, say, I don't light a cigarette in this room either, because of course it's not right. But there must be some hole in this congregation where smokers can smoke and, not just in the Assembly, because the Assembly isn't that important, in any working institution, where a man has to spend some time, there's got to be some space where he won't bother anyone and where he's going to poison himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39597	Right on the line, the folk emissary of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39598	I would not agree that a petty card fraud is what I was saying, and exactly what you're saying is that we want to ban smokers out of the country, make them criminals, that's exactly what thesis is, I mean, the other MPs were talking about, but for the reasons they're saying. However, such a space exists in companies, in institutions, except in those listed by this Article's 5th position, so that the reasons already spoken of, there is no need and there is no point in introducing such a place for smokers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39599	National MP Milan Knezevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39600	I'd just, since I'm mentioned, I think we're part of an understanding, or we don't understand each other. We, absolutely, as smokers, want to protect you from tobacco smoke. Our discussions and our amendments are about what would suit you if we were separated, if we had our own space, and you wouldn't be threatened. We absolutely don't want to endanger you. When I mentioned a restrictive and rigid smoking law, we illustrate examples, where, whether the courtyard spaces or these other situations create conditions of heavy control and spontaneous violation, are not conscious. We point to some shortcomings that legally will not be regulated in terms of smoking control. And as for consciousness, we talked in principle, I absolutely think our children, too, don't say that we shouldn't continue to act in terms of education, know the harmfulness of tobacco smoke and complications. We talked about it and not talking anymore. So, the prevention of the law itself, but also the 40-year-old education that you mentioned, is not enough, though it is known. And according to the law itself, it is very interesting, if it is repeated that a smoking rate has fallen in these developed countries, such as America and England, where the fight against smokers has a rank of fighting against much more serious crime, to that degree: ''These data are more alarming in children. In many European countries, 80-90% of students from 13 to 15 years of age say they smoke in houses ahead of them. '"What does this information indicate? Do we need to think? This is where they say they have 20%. These kids don't lie. Whether or not in the West, I spent a year in America, statistically, they faked some data. What I'm saying is that they have a decades-long dedication to tobacco harmfulness, and they lead to devastating consequences in their children (here, from 80-90%, and that's what's given in the reasoning of the law. We shouldn't have entered the site. Let's not discuss it now, we just want to illustrate it. You are also aware that this is a complex problem, that it is a problem that is not easy to overcome, that it is a problem where we must have mutual tolerance, that you be protected, and that we are given the opportunity. I'm done. I'll continue later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39601	Three minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39602	On behalf of the SRS Group, my esteemed colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, submitted the amendment to Article 3. Article 3 refers to the ban on smoking in a closed, working and public space. The amendment reads, in Article 3(5), the indent of Article 15, which reads as "Zanatical actions (commerces, hairdressers, cobblers, cosmetics, etc.)" The reason he gave is that the amendment completes the Bill on the Protection of Population against exposure to tobacco smoke. A completely pointless explanation of the Government for the refusal of amendments, in which, among other things, it states: 'In the light of the character of crafts actions proposed by the amendment (commerces, hairdressers, cobblers, cosmetics, etc.) can be established' (I am potential to 'basely conclude') ''that such crafts actions will not be able to provide a special space intended exclusively for smoking, i.e. a space in which the employer's work must not be carried out, and for that reason, in these trades, smoking will be prohibited in accordance with Article 3(1). It's a bill of law. '"There is a problem here in part inconsistency, since it continues to allow smoking in public rooms. I would like to say that this is how they are discriminated against, even more endangered, artisan workers, who usually work in very unfavourable conditions, especially hairdressers, shoemakers, cosmetics, and who are daily exposed to various risk factors that threaten their health. These are various types of evaporation in the form of glues, acids, oils and other chemical agents they use in their work. These funds, in some ways, endanger life, so many people from these activities retire prematurely because they have various types of professional illnesses. So now I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Bradic, that, in agreement with the representatives of the Ministry of Health, the law is well considered, because in this way, in these rooms, it is certainly possible not to smoke. Which is why they are discriminated against by these other rooms where smoking is strictly prohibited. I don't think it's necessary to discriminate against people who are already in one way threatened, whose health conditions can be worsened and weakened. Therefore, I ask that you consider this and that, if there is a possibility, you adopt this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39603	Three minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nebojsa Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39604	This amendment is of a technical nature and it is accepted. So, in Article 3rd paragraph of the sixth sentence, Article 6th century 3.9 is replaced by the words - Article 6th century 3-7, for the sake of language-legal harmonisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39605	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Messenger of the People of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an amendment I have to comment on. Now, you see, we've been having a debate here about raising public awareness that it is necessary to be far more rigorous in applying legal standards when we banish tobacco smoke. What does this amendment offer? This amendment offers us to expand the space in which to smoke. Besides being allowed to gamble, toys should now be allowed to smoke. That's a little weird for me now. A moment ago when you challenge Mr. Shami, you say – no, the law must be restrictive, and now suddenly you are expanding the restrictions of the law. I'd be free to say a few words. This Article 3 is a key member, who, in my view, deserves absolute criticism in this law and that is why Serbian radicals will not vote for such a bill. You see, if you read the law, the first sentence, she says, "Smoking is forbidden in every closed working and public space, under the conditions prescribed by this law. ''Now Mr. Bradic will agree here, so he can't be in each closed place, without this "in each", if we're going to hit him with some exceptions and special situations and, what he's doing, immediately Article 3 devalues himself in one of the next positions, which he says, that, apart from the attitude of the first member, he can be allowed in the workplace, that he can also be allowed in public places. Well, here, these toys are public places. So, you say, just now, you need to be restrictive, you need to be aware, and now, all of a sudden, no, here we need to be broad-minded. Now a man would wonder, in the interest of whom is it? Does our fellow smokers and citizens who smoke or not, get to meet them? No, I don't. You don't go out to meet them. See what you have, if in this way, by this legal solution in Section 3 later you can list where absolutely no smoking is allowed, then by such relativization you have received virtually nothing compared to the old law. I'll read you the old law, which is so noble and so clearly written, that I can't resist without reading it. It says – smoking is prohibited in closed areas where educational and educational activities are performed, including chambers, and provides accommodation, stay, feeding of children, students and students. Second, it performs reception, accommodation, care and treatment of healthcare users, persons in a state of social need, performs production, control and transport of medicines, performs the production of accommodation and the transport of life supplies, maintain cultural, entertainment, sports and other events, events and competitions. So, no toys, no casinos. You're derogating now, and, uh, for me, clearly, clean and realistically written law for this time. Furthermore, it says this – it performs public recording and broadcasting, performs the work of social nutrition, holds sessions and other organised gatherings. In particular, public transport means of transport in road transport shall be prohibited, in means of transport in which public transport is carried out in rail and air transport and inland navigation, except in particular in certain compartments, a closed room in which a non-smoker, or two or more employees, is operated, of which at least one non-smoker is a non-smoker. Well, where better than what's been said here, and you're in this Article 3, with these gymnastics, at one point you get up and you're in favor of restrictiveity, and at another point you're derogating even what the previous law did great. Now you have to define yourself. This is not an amendment in the interest of Serbian citizens. He didn't write an amendment or my esteemed colleague Sima Vukovic. I'm free to say, in style, he doesn't talk like that, I hear him on the board. It's not his language. It's one of the administrators' bones, of course, the one who wrote the law. And it's quite clear, that the MP group, now I'm free to say that, will not be resented by anyone, G17 plus instrumentalized by the Ministry, that she here promotes their laws... (President: People's Messenger, I will blame you. That's inadmissible. You cannot belittle any MPs individually, nor can you say to the courts whether someone is independently doing the work of a MP or being instrumentalised. That's not what I said. (President: People's Parliament, I listen to you carefully, and I ask you to look at the stenogram of your own exposure. I remind you of the obligation to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige us to observe politely. And what would I ask you, if you'll excuse me, man? To ask my colleagues if they felt hurt, if I offended them, if they responded... (President: National MP, there is no need to ask anyone how it feels in cases where you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have an obligation to remind you that it is forbidden to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it is my sole duty and duty to fulfill. I thank you for these pedagogical, well-intentioned warnings, but I cannot understand by the capacity of my brain that I have offended my esteemed MPs with whom 20... (President: National MP, I now warn you that you cannot express your views in your speech, disqualifications about any MP, nor doubt the ability of any MP to do his job, nor can you have knowledge of that kind, nor can you say it. If you insist on further violating the Rules of Procedure, I am also available to you for provisions that I am more uncomfortable with applying than you are with them. You know what, you're putting me in doubt that you're truthfully saying what you said in your last sentence. It's possible it's that way. I'll give up. It's a pointless debate. If I may conclude this Article 3, what was I going to say about him, if you'll excuse me? I'm moving on. We had a great proposal. If the government or, say, the health ministry really wanted to take a bit of a stricter view of the tobacco, then there was a whole series of other measures, which are: excise duties to raise the price of cigarettes to raise. If you are reading our Strategy on the ban on tobacco smoke, brought by that government, you will find very nice provisions where it is said that they are mistaken that the state will lose some money if it raises the price of cigarettes. No, he'll get more money. The strategy says it's a delusion if tobacco producers don't give tobacco premiums that they fail. No, you move them to other cultures. After all, if I can finish, what's this about? With this Article 3 and these interventions, you relativize the first position of this article, and you bring that previous law into an awkward situation to expand some places and some situations. This law, this is my opinion, I guess I have the right to say it, is brought into the interest of the cigarette manufacturer. This law is passed in the interest of those who own toys, casinos. Which is the state's income, and in order to qualify it, I wouldn't want to talk about it right now, because then I'd probably get some kind of warning. Therefore, if the state wanted, the Ministry of Health, European standards, would sue the tobacco industry of Serbia and foreign factories located here, such as the US Health Ministry, English, sued manufacturers and received large damages due to health care costs caused by tobacco smoke. And that would be an honest and true measure that a responsible government can bring and then prove that it is truly fighting against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39607	From the time of the parliamentary group, eight minutes have been used, the rest of the time to give instructions. The Messenger of the people Simo Vukovic has a word, and the Messenger of the people is Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39608	Dear Mrs. Komic, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will have to respond to some of these arguments, part of the pseudoarguments of Honorable Dr. Momchilov, and I will try to understand that in the heat of defense or opposition to my amendment you had no intention of expressing yourself offensively to me, but, in fact, for the sake of truth, this amendment has been submitted to recognize something that exists. The law on gambling defines something called toys. I have to assure you that I'm not one of the consumers and I've never been to a gambling casino or a bookie or a toy, but it's a simple life and there's a part of a population that visits those premises. The promoter, when he gave us this bill, when he entered the assembly procedure, apparently that segment skipped. I can understand your desire to make a political connotation, so maybe you're getting some point by representing me here as a lobbyist for a strong tobacco industry or for casinos, but I think you'll miss the target. I absolutely don't belong to that circle of people, nor did such an intensity exist, and in this regard I invite you to get acquainted with the Law of Games, so you will see that there are objects of this type that the law, for the sake of legal security of business, must define. What I must add, also, by listening to the views of your parliamentary group, at one point I understand that you are in favour of a restrictive law, in another for a law that is for a little more compromise, so that sometimes, however, it seems to me to return you to the beginning of your presentation, that you are beginning to be the actor of a Jones drama from "theatra absurda", to correct me, Minister Bradic, I simply cannot send your political position, as far as this bill is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39609	Twenty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Pai Boys, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39610	Dear People's MPs, let's start with this last thing you said, that you're not clear on the position of the SRS Parliamentary Group. It is clear – we will not vote for this law. I repeat: this law is worse than the previous law. There's no room without a ceiling in the previous law if the room has a ceiling, it doesn't exist in the previous law, there is. If I didn't count, I could do more. There are other interesting things. What you're saying is that you don't know why we're talking like this, well, here, when the minister is talking here, to quote you, I have a stenogram, I'm watching what I'm saying and what I hear from others, he says, "It's our turn to make a big step. '"Tell me, where's the big step. I'm not saying that gambling doesn't bring happiness to anyone, and not to this unfortunate people. They are an instrument which deceives the people, and which disintegrates the awareness of the difficult economic situation we are in and about the difficult life of most citizens. I didn't think you were an advocate of those circles, I was just saying that the intensity of the amendment if it fits into Article 3 the way you propose, then it makes me think that it's meant not to be well-being and to be satisfied by smokers, but a profit lobby that doesn't need to be raised by any society, and it's reality and nobody slows it down. It was just part of what I wanted to say. I don't see a step. That's what I'm asking you. Where's that step? I see that some, especially young, of the DS Group advocate more comprehensive measures, but it's not realistic. If you're going to be right, in the European Charter of Human Rights, you have no right to health. If you're going to be realistic, you have no right to a clean environment in the European Charter of Human Rights. But you have a member of 2nd and 3rd right to health, because that's how you participate from other members, from the right to privacy, Article 8. In the end, the European Court of Justice ruled that the German government was not wrong when certain non-smokings complained about being threatened by smokers when it allowed non-smoking areas. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39611	People's MP Đura Muchenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39612	Thank you. For the sake of the public, to be clear and unequivocally put, as a member of the Committee's Health Committee, I am discussing, considering and voting for what I consider to be right, and not for what someone, in some way, suggests, so we have this freedom of opinion. As you can see, here in the public debate, we brought freedom of opinion, and you could hear different opinions from the position and from the ranks of the opposition. As for Articles 3 and your amendment, I now repeat once again the situation regarding the precise definition of non-smoking institutions. Once again, I think it's very good that everything that is in some way state, health care, education, where all other people, in some ways, see as an example how the state should function, that there should be a ban on smoking. It's obvious that you're wandering around right now in this matter whether this is too restrictive or less restrictive. A moment ago, in your presentation, you made a statement about the previous law that this law was great, and I'm asking if you voted in favour of the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39613	From the time of the parliamentary group, one minute and 20 seconds have been used. National MP Pai Boys, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39614	Let me answer the question first. Did I vote – of course, in 2005, the law was passed, I was not in parliament and I did not vote. Now let me give you a brief and clear answer. I said in comparison, please, when we compare these two laws, this law is, in my opinion, a great law with 20 dots that just doesn't apply. In the principle debate, I also said why. You made one slip. This is not my amendment. This is Mr. Sima Vukovic's amendment. I have the right to report for him. We're not discussing my amendment. And what you said at the beginning, that you brought your opinions autonomously, I have no doubt. The only problem is, see, Minister Bradic took the floor, so he said it was about the technical correction of the amendment that the Committee has brought. The board brought, again, technical corrections to the four amendments, thus showing its good will. Well, we weren't so mean, even though the opposition's MPs didn't vote, they were abstentions. So, you've had these technical interventions in this law and it's a lack of it. What was one of the interventions? It shall be invoked in one member to a position that does not exist in another member. And, that's one of the changes, she'll come to order. Well, that's what we accepted. There's no evil intentions, that's absolutely clear. Our attitude that can't understand it is, again, another problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39615	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39616	Thank you. I will use the time of the authorised representative and will also be talking about the amendment. Today's debate, as well as the debate in principle, clearly shows that there are people MPs who rightly discuss here on two basic tracks. I represent a group of those who advocate the preservation of at least as many smokers' rights as previously mentioned law and another group of debaters who would now like to be as the most severe combat poison and the greatest cause of all evils and the mortality of each type to be attributed to tobacco smoke, and that the smell of tobacco must not be felt in any room. It is, of course, supported by numerous comments on the amendments that we have submitted, where it is often called for different framework conventions, guidelines, to give them, well, even, how much this produces in the minds of citizens this discussion of these two laws, which I cannot say that can be pearl, the work of the Minister of Health. Perhaps he will be giddy about it, and that is the most important thing he has done in his term, and there have been many bigger problems to solve. The man's not here, and it's hard to argue about it right now. So, the law has begun to accelerate slowly, inciting different thoughts of non-smokers who so far in the presence of smokers in the open space, for example, have not practiced. It is heard, even, that it will be more harmful for non-smokers than for the smoker himself, it has more harmful effects if he breathes his smoke from a distance of several meters away, etc. Unclear statistical formulations can often be whatever you want, and you know for health care statistics that can lead to the expected outcome; Kaplan-Mayer's false survival, e.g. with 10 risk factors present at the same time, you can extract one you want according to work and expected results. Statistics are all-powerful science, but there's also a fundamental tendency, a fundamental principle that none of us who are smokers of this hour bothers others who aren't and that they do. No one's making them sit with us in the same room. We ask that space be provided for us, that only we, of others, are properly and in accordance with the law isolated, that in no way should we promote smoking and that we should act on youth, on young people to stop doing it, that, as some statistics say, we are going in that direction. For those of us who have already defined and determined that we are, well, even in the category of addicts, so these are the people to whom we should, in some ways, help. Each of the smokers is aware if, indeed, someone is seriously polling, so he offers some symbolic reward to whoever hits the right answer, who honestly declares that smoking is useful or harmful – who would write that and say that smoking is useful?- I'm sorry. It is not necessary for those who think differently about this law to uninterruptedly sew up the label on promotion of smoking, nor put so much on the pedestal fact that if someone smokes somewhere in the area and someone goes along with it, then I feel terrible and vicious about it. The controversial question for such events is, too, shy statistics on the fact that those who have just stopped smoking have just suffered from the fact that they have stopped smoking on the advice of a doctor. Not everything in medicine is two and two, multifactoriality, genetic predisposition and many things give the right to those who are, unfortunately, in a difficult opportunity to get rid of it easily, to step up, gradually, alone, embossed with the fact, sufficiently isolated, sufficiently stigmatized, provide some space for the rest of their smoking careers, and in an attempt to get rid of it, or to pay the fine, lose more chance of being able to smoke, they still do. So, the amendment we're talking about here is one intervention that seems very logical to me to forbid smoking in all means of transport, even mentioning the abortion in law. Imagine the rafting of Drina, an open raft and someone lit a cigar and who now, the driver of the raft, the owner who does it for money, to warn him or to write him an application on a specially prescribed form. Or, say, in ships. We're no longer a country that can have long boat lines, but we can have tourist ships driving to the Danube, Dnipar, Volga, so we can make a situation like that. I'm sure there's a restaurant where you can smoke or you can't smoke. In some trains where there are canine cars, even, to introduce some sleeping cars for smokers, if necessary, to find room for smokers. There is something that can be done for that category of people, who truly agrees to continue to be stigmatized and sacrificed in a certain way, and at the very least it is necessary by this law to make such ambiguities and such dubiosiss. Because we know that under the current law in health institutions smoking is forbidden, but you will find it difficult to find in Serbia a health care facility where there is no space, someone calls it a "lighthouse", someone calls it "aquarium", someone calls it "the corner", someone uses other metaphors to explain it, to get away from health smokers. Well, there are cardio surgeons, well, there are people who best see the consequences of smoking, of course, not just smoking, multifactorial reasons. I don't mean to encourage someone and not admit the replicas of that kind, that they can smoke and that other factors can't harm them. But, in general, this kind of prohibition of smokers is possible only if it decides to be a total ban on smoking, the closure of factories, the store of tobacco. How rational it is and how logical it is to think before such a decision is reached. If we are also ahead of this in 2012 to do a smoking ban everywhere, we will turn our apartments in the winter period to our children's general poison plants, yet again, what burdens everyone's conscience. Everyone looks at it in the conditions of heat, when you open the children, they'll freeze from it. Unsaturbed smoker, stress smoker at work, can't function normally. It takes a long time for people to get rid of it, terrible smokers, multi-year-old smokers, and they can't even get legally punished. Guys, that would look like if we wanted now to take the biological advantage of youth against the physiological aging process, make all the people who are Partisans fans become Star fans, let's just say it's not exactly something particularly useful, you go slowly for the Star. Some things are impossible to legally cut. The evolutionary flow and clear statistics show that there is maturity in the minds of the nation, that it is harmful and should not be so draconian measures to go, ignore that fact, allow a certain degree of evolutionaryness and acceptable and acceptable smogmatizing of smokers, who, behold, the unfortunate surroundings have this biological, social, cultural, health and injustice that they are smokers, so they should be allowed to pass without great sanctions. And not an army of inspectors, police, joint ministries, if the state were to work so efficiently, only poverty or other things are being replaced, where our end would be, how it works on the persecution of smokers and protecting against the fear of damage to those who might inhale and smell smoke, etc. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39617	Five minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39618	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I fall for those people who advocate that the laws are respected. I hope that here all 250 MPs, too, feel that the laws should be respected. And that's why I'm always, no matter what the law is, against the provisions that are inconclusive. Article 4, item 1, point 2) says that smoking is prohibited in all vehicles when used as official vehicles for the transport of passengers or goods. You want to explain to me what kind of driver he's gonna take to his principal who's driving by official vehicle to forbid smoking or who's gonna ban a minister from smoking in a car? I don't think any of them will. Who's gonna control that? It can't be controlled. Therefore, writing such a provision, which is laid down in the law, means agreeing in advance to break the law. That's one thing. Second, point 1) mentions the abortion, only writes – the raft, that the raft is prohibited from smoking. First, there are private rafts. Walk along the coast of Sava or Danube, especially Sava, and you will see hundreds and hundreds of private rafts. Why don't people smoke on the raft? Secondly, if it is an abortion used as a catering facility, it is subject to the provisions of the law for all other catering facilities, and if it is closed, it is known what is next, if it is open, I do not see again the reason why it should not be smoked. So, I'm sorry for the expression, it's a completely pointless provision. It is also reiterated in recital 4 that the person responsible is obliged to ensure that no tobacco product charges are found in the space. Something a responsible person can't really stop. It's just that that kind of thing doesn't have to and shouldn't be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39619	Since the time of the authorised representative, 20 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Dušanka Plecevic. The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 4, refers to the part that speaks of the ban on smoking in public transport, so that when one of the MPs from the ruling majority says that this law is not a law on smoking, then he did not read the whole law, but only his title. Therefore, the ban on smoking in public transport, Article 4, has been proposed by my amendment to add Article 5, which reads: "The public transport organisations are obliged to comply with this law within 180 days of the date of application of the law. "The government has not accepted the amendment, explaining that it is a member of 30. The bill requires that all legal entities and entrepreneurs whose facilities are prohibited from smoking, comply with the provisions of this law and that it has the character of a transitional provision, and therefore cannot be found in other provisions of the laws which have a material and legal character. In my opinion, the provisions of Article 30 refer to the technical and technological activities of the physical separation of smoking space, the purchase of ventilation devices and systems, the setting of signs of smoking bans and the like, especially in catering facilities, closed work space, public transport, etc. My amendment, however, refers to the precision of the dealings of smoke-free controllers, which is first introduced as an occupation in practice by this law. The inaccuracy of Article 14(2) on the taking of measures by controllers in cases where the person mentioned does not act on an oral order, a possible violation of the right of the said person, would be resolved by an internal act of the economic operator. Smoking ban controllers do not have to and cannot know all the laws and ways of handling such situations and precise instructions in this sense would be necessary. In addition, smoking ban controllers will most likely be persons whose extra job it is. The person who will change, especially in shift work, so the responsible person will not always be present to give him oral instructions and orders of conduct. I am convinced that this inaccuracy will bring confusion and confusion in the way of practical law enforcement among people who will have to meet with the breakers of these provisions on a daily basis. That is why I believe that my amendment makes sense and that business entities will certainly complete their general and internal acts, precisely because of these inaccuracies and inaccuracies, and whatever this law does not oblige them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39621	A minute and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to the title above Articles 5 and 5. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39622	Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, submitted an amendment to Article 5, which refers to catering facilities for food and drink. The amendment reads: "The title above article 5 is amended and reads as follows: 1. Restaurants that only serve drinks. Article 5 adds a new point of view: No smoking is allowed in all the facilities in which the food is served. So far, Article 1, 2, 3 and 4 becomes Article 2, 3, 4 and 5''' The government has not accepted this amendment, and the explanation is very vague. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill put in the same legal regime catering facilities where food is served, as well as catering facilities where only drinks are served, and for reasons that both represent facilities in which users reside. I would ask the minister – how does the right to put in the same legal system catering facilities where food and drink are served, when we all know that there are catering facilities where only food is served, and there are catering facilities where drinks are served? Also, there are catering facilities where both food and drink are served, but we don't know exactly what the number of each other and the number of others is. The Serbian Radical Party thinks the law is bad and does not bring anything new, so we will not vote for the law. Also, we believe that this law has been brought under the pressure of the caterers, mostly those whose catering facilities serve drinks, and various tobacco companies, which benefit from smoking products. If you really wanted to solve the problem of protecting the population from tobacco smoke, you would increase excise duties on these tobacco products or reduce the annual production of tobacco products, which each year creates a deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39623	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39624	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have one amendment, but our amendment concerns the full correction of Article 5 of this Law. We think our formulation is better. Practically, in this Article 5, when you look at it, there is, first of all, a lot of conditionality, with a square of more than 80 meters, although there, already, in another member we have a smaller square. Furthermore, it is mentioned here, and we think that the areas on which drinks are served should be grouped in a visual continent. After all, the function in the catering facilities, i.e. the visual effect, is important, but the functional connection is something that is much more significant. Furthermore, this is a very sensitive topic when you should prohibit smoking in a catering facility. It will only, when the law is much more restrictive, if it is passed, about the ban on smoking in all public places, surely lead to, perhaps, collations with promotional freedom of entrepreneurship, because direct restrictions, banning and restricting smoking in catering facilities occur in business. Now, let's not discuss it, but it's obvious that there will be problems in the realization of it. In our amendment, not to read, because I will lose a minute and a half of time, where it is clearly mentioned that there should be a limited space without tobacco smoke, that there is a special ventilation, it is also intended to be prohibited to smoke in facilities that serve only to consume food. So, for these reasons, we have suggested that this Article 5 be rephrased. We have been given an explanation for the refusal, just like for the amendment submitted to this article, where it is again called, what I said earlier, i.e. examples of countries where it is complete, partial, ban and what we have mentioned – that by 2012 solutions for general protection against influence should be envisaged. So, this argument to reject this amendment, in the particular situation relating to this law, we find it not appropriate and we suggest that this amendment be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39625	From the time of the parliamentary group, one minute was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39626	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Now we come to the next few members of 5, 6, which require one general reconstruction. Two things are important about the amendment to Article 7. Unfortunately, I have to say that I've always felt that doctors are learning less physics and chemistry than is necessary, so I'm going to try to speak very slowly. Namely, when you calculate the concentration of toxic matter in some space... I suppose the lovely ladies will listen to me instead of talking. They didn't recognize each other. I apologize. I assume you'll listen to me. So when you calculate the concentration of toxic matter in some space, then you calculate it relative to the volume of that space, not to the surface. The surface of the mild link has nothing to do with the concentration of any toxic matter, including tobacco smoke. Therefore, the restriction on the square is completely pointless. Actually, there's another reason. So for two reasons. I'm not talking about whether it should be 80 squares, 50, 150 or 550, it doesn't matter at all. It's important how many cubatures there are. I've set an example of a 20-square space, 10 meters high, and it's got 200 cc's of air. The 80 square-square-square-square-square-foot-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. Believe me, a while ago, I was at a wedding in a room that has 150 square feet, even though I'm a smoker, I wanted to drown in smoke because it was barely a foot tall. Therefore, your provision in law is pointless. Connect to the cubic space. She's pointless for one more reason. Namely, if you have two spaces of the same height of 20 squares and 80 squares, in that 80 squares, four times more people and by the logic of things, since the distribution is even, there are four times more smokers. The concentration of tobacco smoke in both areas of equal height will be the same. That's another reason why she's even dividing by squares is pointless. You can do something else, and that's to do the division by cubicity, so to say, it takes so much cubic air to make the fact of tobacco smoke bearable, so to speak. I don't understand why you rejected this proposal. This proposal has another item, and that is, I have to read what we have suggested, and we have proposed an amendment that says that this entire famous position 2, which is a god with us, changes and that there is – a responsible person in a catering facility, whose total volume is greater than 180 cubic metres, I do not insist at all at 180, can be 200, as much as you like, can allow smoking in the whole facility or part of the facility. So he can choose whether it's just for non-smokers, whether it's just for smokers, or whether it's for half-and-a-half, as he wants. One of my colleagues, I'm sorry, I forgot exactly who, gave one far too many proposals in the debate in principle, which is that the state can, not by this law, but by one other law that financial stimulants give to those who have catering facilities for example. Only for non-smokers, by reducing their taxes. Of course, it's not the subject of this law, but there are other mechanisms, not only for banning and restrictions, but there are other mechanisms that can be regulated. So, the DSS amendment is double. On the one hand, we're looking for a Cuba connection, which is the only logical thing. On the other hand, we ask that those who are beyond some level of Cuba can choose to be just for non-smoking people, just for smokers or half-lifes. Well, let them choose, and the state let some other regulations, possibly, stimulate them to hold a non-smoking restaurant if they want to. It's okay. I don't know why you refused, I don't want to read your arguments, I'd waste a lot of time reading these things, it's unnecessary, but I don't understand why you're so stubborn about staying in a solution that I repeat, it's completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39627	Three minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39628	Here's an example of how it didn't work out for the legislator's consciousness, so that once we modify the members, we leave everything there that's in Article 6 to write it shorter, clearer and more acceptable. We wanted Article 6, instead of what looks long to read, to be shorter and to say: ''The spaces in the workplace and public space in which smoking is allowed must be separated from the rest of the room and have an adequate independent ventilation that casts smoke out into the open space. ''These rooms can't be used for other purposes, nor can they be intended for staying or performing their activities. It's supposed to be at the entrance -- "Smoking Room." Is there any greater, clearer, cleaner, and what is not at all consistent, so I refer to the interpretation of the reply to Dusan Marić, etc., which the government has given? I don't understand. What was the reason here not to accept it, and what here wasn't enough and clear enough? So there is an obvious will, an intention to implement the principle drawn up, to simply put a ban and to place more than one third or maybe 40% of people in Serbia in a discriminatory position, fully aware of the fact that they have already been, but in this way, besides punishing smokers, you punish the owners of objects. What are they going to be able to do to a guest who, by such a mistake, has walked to the bathroom with a cigarette – to punish him?- I'm sorry. They're making an impression on their bar to punish, calling the inspectors. It's a set of unrealistics that can't be done. Secondly, in your proposal, as it stands integrally, it also says the face number, then the sliding door. Look, people have to buy a sliding door with electric motors. Well, it's automatically written upstairs -- you can't get in, you can't get in, you can't get in, you can't get in or there's no ventilation. That's what you write in European models. Well, you're all traveling. So, what's waiting for us at the airports? A disaster, a humiliating disaster, we can't see each other from smoke! Who's asking us about the ventilation?- I'm sorry. You can buy a drink at the restaurant, bring it to the coffee room with a cigarette, don't even let you bring a drink. They didn't put any ventilation on, nor ask you how many of you are inside. Those who give you such models, which give you hints, patterns, you don't really have to listen to everything. They didn't give a dime for the tower they took down, or for cancer patients and all that. It's quiet, they don't see it. Nuclear waste, we were irradiated, killed, so we didn't run into each other so we asked them to think that through some kind of apologising donation or something else was done. So, I mean, we've had a good amendment that could really fix this kind of obnoxious, dissociative member, full of illogicalness, like this, the owners of the catering facilities will have to do different repairs, and they have to live even after this law. What kind of sliding door, what kind of automatic printing? Who makes these automatic printouts, the malfunctioning device, the overbooked device? That's what it costs, people! Smoking room and end of story. It's a smoker's department and nothing else. Short, clear, logical, how it should be in law. I simply don't understand the need to treat any proposal that comes out of the opposition in a way that should be discriminated against, and only the arguments you've given, they're extremely impertinent. You send us back for three or four members to see what you have answered to the Messenger, and it says so to Martinovic, and to Shamijah, and to this, and to that. Now, while you see that explanation, you have to read half of this government response paper. It is not necessary, especially when the matter is clear, as is the case with Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39629	A minute and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the Sixth Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39630	Article 6 is God be with us. First, in paragraph 1, we suggested what we suggested in the previous position, which is that things relate to the cubic space, not to the square. I'm not going to explain it again, I'm counting on you to understand me the last time I explained it. However, there are some views in this article that are totally pointless. A moment ago, my esteemed colleague mentioned some of it. Let me read it to you, we suggested that those views be deleted. He says, "The smoking room must be equipped with a ventilation system which is an integral part of the smoking room that is physically separated from the second ventilation system, with the air with tobacco smoke from the smoking room not passing into other closed rooms located in that closed space. 'Scuse me, you have a smoking room. Besides, there's no smoking in the room. How do you think someone walks into that smoking room? He's got to open the door. As far as I know, teleportation hasn't been invented yet. He has to open the door to get in and open the door to get out. The moment he opens the door, they can be whatever the door you want, unless you want to prescribe special isolation chambers that people have to install, like in spaceships, the air will mix. Again, let me say, you're writing, to use a mild term, nonsense, although I'd very much like to use some more serious expression, but I'm afraid the strict chairman will punish me rightly. Don't write nonsense. Someone will read it one day, and they will ask, "Who wrote this?" As you imagine from this room, where you don't smoke, you enter the area where you currently smoke and don't open the door. They can be slippery, whatever you want. Don't write nonsense, etc., not to explain all this, there's no point. We've made one suggestion about what that member of the law should look like, in which I repeat, I'm going back to Cuba, not the square. Aman!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39631	Thirty seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Dusan Maric has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the shortcomings in this law that makes it impossible for the SRS to support its adoption, is that in our opinion, it is more disturbing to the owners of catering facilities that do not want to protect non-smoking persons than those who want to do so. What must the owner of one catering facility who decides to allow smoking in half of the facility? He doesn't have to do anything at all. It is enough to take 10 sheets of paper, if there are ten tables, write on five sheets – for smokers, write on five sheets – for non-smokers and finish work. It's all his obligation in both organisational and financial terms. On the other hand, in front of the owners of non-smoking catering facilities, to introduce this special smoking room, a series of conditions are set. First, he has to secure a special room, and if he doesn't have it, he has to build it. It thus not only exposes itself to financial costs, but reduces its business space, as food and drink are not allowed to be served in that area. Secondly, it has to put special markings above the door of that room – smoking rooms, even to indicate the number of persons who can enter that room. Next, next to the entrance to the smoking room, as well as in the smoking room itself, in case of a fault of the ventilation system, you must automatically appear (see this) the label of the prohibited smoking due to faults on the ventilation system. What if this information system breaks down?- I'm sorry. Next thing you know, this poor guy has to do, the smoking room has to be shut down from the whole room, etc. And it must have a sliding door. Next, the air from that room must not be recycled, but must be carried out in the open space through the ventilation system. When you add everything up and subtract, this caterer must be exposed to large financial costs and make significant organisational changes, changes in his facility. Then the question arises – why would he do it, why would he expose himself to these costs, obligations, those before there's a real possibility, in any case, it's going to happen, that the object is controlled by various municipal inspections and that they're writing him applications, that he's paying the fine because he doesn't have a light above his door where it says that the ventilation system is broken or for some other reason? Then the simplest solution that man can do, the best service he can do himself, is to make a decision that he doesn't have a room special to smoke, but to say – this half of the facility is for smokers, this other half is for non-smokers and the finished thing. As a consequence, we can have one situation, theoretically, that in Serbia we don't have a single catering facility greater than 80 square feet in which non-smoking rights are protected, because if you're in one 80 square-square room, where in one half of them smokes five people and those people who are at the next table, in any case, breathe tobacco smoke. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39633	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39634	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments submitted by the SRS to Articles 5, 6 and 7 are of paramount importance. Exactly the way you have formulated these members once again confirms what we have been saying for a long time, which is that you mainly translate other people's laws and often get lost in that bad translation or literal translation. This can be seen from a number of members, from Article 3 in which you refer to positions 8 and 9. that do not exist in this article. This can also be seen where you set specific rules for rooms in hotels that have a ceiling, although as far as we know, and here we are still waiting for a response from the ministry, all rooms in hotels in Belgrade have ceilings, we have not heard of a hotel that has rooms without ceilings. You don't accept these amendments, but here you can essentially see how discriminatory you are, how pointless the law is, because you discriminate against the owners of those catering facilities that decide to introduce stricter rules, and I just think that the state's intensity should, at least according to what you've told us, be different. In Article 6, Mr. Maric suggested eradicating positions 3, 4, 5 and 7, as they introduce additional burdens for owners of catering facilities of more than 80 square squares, which are determined instead of dividing the restaurant into two parts, two equal parts or more non-smoking parts, in which case tobacco smoke can easily cross from one part of the catering facility to the other, while for those who choose to build or provide otherwise a special smoking room you prescribe a whole series of completely pointless provisions. I have to read this, where you're saying that in front of the entrance to the smoking room, as well as the smoking room itself, you have to ensure that in the event of a ventilation system malfunction, there is an automatic sign of banned smoking due to a malfunction on the ventilation system. I really don't know who this nonsense came to, but it's a fundamental question – why do you prescribe harder conditions for those who choose not to smoke in their facilities? It would be normal for those who go to their facilities to be for smokers to be difficult conditions, and you've prescribed exactly the opposite. This may be best seen through the next Article 7, which speaks of owners of locals and catering facilities less than 80 square meters, where you say that owners of such facilities can identify whether their facilities will be fully 'yes' or completely prohibited from smoking. How is it possible that the owner of a 70-square-square bar, if it is defined that his facility is fully smokeable, has only the obligation to point out on the object's front door the right label in accordance with this law, that on the other hand, whoever defines that half of the facility is for smokers, half for non-smokers, also has the obligation to stick to half the tables where smoking is allowed, and where it is not, and that, in the end, those who opted not to smoke in that facility, but that there is a special smoking room, practically, you force them through hell, prescribing two separate ventilation systems, prescribing automatic doors, mechanical closure, and I don't know what else. Wouldn't it be normal if the facility were divided into two parts, so it's half for smoking, and half for smoking, to prescribe two separate ventilation systems in that case? This is how you send a message that, practically, the Government of the Republic of Serbia propagates smoking; whether it is because of the billions you receive each year for excise or for some other reason, it would be good if the minister told us. Once again, I must remind Mr Bradic that the minister's role is to participate actively in the discussion. Like this, his presence is completely unthinkable. Indeed, he waits calmly for the MPs to complete the debate on amendments and then say and read a few sentences he has prepared in advance, and we would prefer it much more and I think it would be more constructive, I think it is his obligation, that these specific remarks, which have nothing to do with political belongings or daily politics, corresponds right after they are made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39635	Five minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39636	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who considers himself an entrepreneur, I need to remind you that in the past year we have lost more than 200,000 jobs in the entrepreneurial sector, that these lost jobs have occurred by closing down certain trade and catering shops and that what is prescribed in Article 7, that these small catering shops, and I know them in Jagodina dozens that have several tables, commit to sharing their guests on smokers and non-smokers, contribute to keeping people out of work. I think it's something that's completely inadmissible. So one large number of these people, who literally make ends meet and work for very small wages and wages, will put in a situation that will have to close those catering facilities. Therefore, when the law was passed, the government had to have much more and more awareness and measures and concerns about entrepreneurship and that restrictions, which we all need, were gradually introduced. I'd just like to say that the criminal policy that's supposed to be, I mean, offensive to all entrepreneurs, because you're prescribing fines from 500,000 to a million dinars. From five to ten thousand euros for a legal person – well, with a large number of these people their complete inventory and everything they have brought into these catering facilities does not exceed that amount. It's something like we had a few years ago, that the financial police punished traffickers with 100, 200 thousand dinars, although the complete goods that were taken to late payment did not amount to that much and still closed their stores for a month or two. Because of this and such policy, such concerns about the business, we have also come to the situation today that from month to month incomes are falling into the budget, when it comes to VAT, that we have come to the situation of being expected to increase VAT and that you have an increasing number of people working in the private economy, and that there is an increasing number of those in the public sector. So what you predicted is inapplicable. And here's another piece of information that might interest all my colleagues. According to some world statistics, 80% of the catering facilities fail in the first year of work, another 80% after the third year of work. This is not some activity that is highly profitable, therefore, it should have had much more consideration, much more concern for these people, whom, by some estimate, there are probably between 30,000 and 40,000 who live today from this activity and whose families exist in these small catering facilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39637	A minute and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39638	Dear Mrs. Comic, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to report for the word, I was encouraged by a previous exhibition that was about whether this law respected reality, or how much our economy depends on hospitality, which is one of the branches from which the budget is filled, and on the other hand, makes one more tough part of the economy. It seems to me right now that this law has respected this reality and is actually the product of it. He in no way, if he had been completely restrictive, would have endangered the functioning, at least in the first period, of catering facilities, which was a country manual, especially in the environment. Your amendment applies to Article 7. This Article 7 states that the provisions of Articles 5 and 6 shall not apply to facilities up to 80 squares. I don't think your friends or acquaintances who hold catering facilities from those two or three tables have any reason to be unhappy with these legal solutions. I'm not sure we've fully understood each other, and that's why with the reserve I'm accessing your previous discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39639	Since the time of the authorised representative, one minute and 30 seconds have been used. Right on line, MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39640	I'd just like to explain this article once more. So if you have catering facilities consisting of several tables, of 30, 40, 50 square meters, you're going to have to determine whether or not there are smoking in that facility. What I'm saying is that a large part of these catering facilities is literally for the neighborhood neighborhood, and you're going to be in a position to share the neighborhood with smokers and non-smokers. You'll make it impossible for one of them to be your guests, and you're making it impossible for others. I think that's what's inappropriate and that these little catering facilities are most endangered. And, if we take care of them, there should have been some limit to which this law does not apply, the border when it comes to the surface, and these are the very small catering facilities that are very wide across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39641	Anyone else want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family, submitted an amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nebojsa Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39642	The proposed amendment shall be subject to legal and technical harmonisation with the definition of public space referred to in Article 2, as well as legal and technical harmonisation with Article 2. Five and six. It's a bill of law. This is because it defines a clearer definition of a catering facility whose area is less than 80 square meters, so it only refers to these objects that are not in the composition of another area in which smoking is prohibited, which is in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39643	Anyone else want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39644	This is the last time I'm going to speak on the same subject, as the last attempt to convince the legislator to fix the law, in the sense that instead of the surface parameters, they're using the volume parameters, because that's the only thing that's too much. The surface parameter, I repeat, means absolutely nothing. There will be more people in the larger surface, even more smokers. It's the volume of that space that matters. I have to admit, I believed that if one amendment or some amendment would be accepted, those are the ones that are perfectly common sense and on the trail of what the lawmaker is, I guess, just wanted to say, he just chose a parameter that isn't adequate. So, I'm sorry he's not here as the minister to be able to react at the scene. I really don't see why the volume wasn't taken as a parameter. At the same time, I also resent my colleagues from the Committee, and they obviously didn't go into the amendments, because if they had, they would have seen that the amendment we gave to two or three members, which relates to the volume of space, not the surface, was far too high. I won't talk about it anymore. There are other members who talk about the same subject, later as consequences. It's my last attempt to change something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39645	The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39646	Since Professor Shami asks a third question, I take the risk of going into discussion with a math teacher about it. So now the opposite question for you. If we have a coffee bar, which has 80 squares, you can upgrade the gallery space, which is often the case in Belgrade, which increases the useful area, you increase the number of people in the same cubic area. Professor, I'm looking for an answer to that question about what you insist on in Cuba, not on the useful surface.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39647	MP Zoran Shami, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39648	I'll just answer to an esteemed colleague. Of course, smoke is only important for the concentration of smoke and only for the Cuba. The square doesn't have any influence, absolutely none. What you're saying is that it's being upgraded, etc., you've just given an argument for what I'm saying, you're just increasing the area of useful space, increasing the number of people that can appear there. He can upgrade, make out 60 squares 100 squares of usable space. Did he fix the air quality? No, he broke it. Because he created a space for staying twice as many people, so, and twice as many smokers, so, twice as much smoke in one and the same volume space. If you want to make a difference in the quality of space, which is obviously a wish, a quality in terms of whether it will be too smoky or not, I agree that you need to make a difference, but then you have to do it on the cubic of that space, not the squares. The square has nothing to do with it. You could have 300 squares and 20 squares. In 300 squares, it's going to cost 15 times as many people. You're going to have 15 times as many smokers and you're going to have, practically, if it has the same height, the same concentration of tobacco smoke. Then it has nothing to do with you making a difference. The only thing that matters is that you have a Cuba. That's important. This is no political question, however, I think that on the basis of the intensities of the law itself that predicted it, I'm just saying - let's make it a cubatura. I suggested 180 cubic meters. I don't mind if it's 200 cubic metres. However, I can correct the amendment immediately. That's not the point. The thing is, it's got to be a cubature, not a square.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39649	Anybody else answer for a word? MP Đuro Muchenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39650	Apropo of this mathematics must have one problem. Namely, legal solutions have the lowest allowed height of the room, that's three meters. And by your proposed 180-cubic solution, you're going to reduce this space from 80 square meters to 60 square meters, it's so defined by law, so all that's beyond that. The other thing is, that's an estimate, in a way, whether you're going to put 10 or 50 people in one space, and that's why the promoter and it started out of the square, because you can in some way be limited by height, and you are a limited legal height. The bigger space you have, normally you'll have more smokers or non-smokers in that place and if you have a certain space that's more than 80 squares, that's probably, I can't get right into the assessment right now, is an estimate of what the average number of catering facilities on their surface are, and that's why it's estimated what's least harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39651	A minute and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39652	I filed an amendment on behalf of the DSS. I'll tell you my motive right now. My motive is not to embarrass the law's promoter. Article 8 defines which conditions must satisfy a smoking area, etc. And in point 4 of point 1, it says the following sentence, it's worth reading, 'if the room has a ceiling and if, apart from having doors and windows, it's completely closed from all sides hard walls from floor to ceiling. 'I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to explain what the room is. The room is something that has four walls, which necessarily has a floor and it certainly has a ceiling. If any of it's missing, it's not a room. So it's a terrace, a broken room. I don't know. Starting from the fact that the room must have four walls, that it must have a ceiling and a mandatory floor, then the provision of point 4 is absolutely pointless. There's another point that's pointless, and that's the point of ''6) if the door of the room', that's what I was saying earlier, ''in which smoking is allowed not to open in a room where smoking is not allowed, unless that room has doors that are mechanically closed. '"At first, all doors are mechanically closed, unless they are closed by electronic means, but that's the question of locking the door. It has nothing to do with the amount of smoke that will eventually come out. Secondly, it's completely incomprehensible to me how you imagine -- you have a room where you smoke, you have an environment where you don't smoke. In a room where you smoke, the room has a door, someone has to come in and get out. I don't see how that's gonna stop, unless you're going to require special chambers to be built around a room like that. And even if special chambers were built, the chamber would be contaminated again. This insults, these kinds of formulations, how can I tell you, not some very high intelligence. These insults are not really intelligence. Please get this out of the law. This has nothing to do with the brain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39653	45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39654	Article 8 defines facilities and rooms, more specifically hotel and motel rooms in which smoking is allowed. Not to read, he says – smoking is allowed unless, if, if,... and finally after point 6) I propose to add a point 7) which would read: 'if there is no face in the room that is declared against smoking in the same room', which is declared non-smoking. The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: ''Amendman is not accepted for the reason that Article 8 paragraph 1 of point 2) of the bill stipulates that the obligation of the competent person in the catering facility to offer the guest the choice of either the smoking room or the non-smoking room. In this way, there is an obligation for a catering facility to have enough room for smokers as well as a non-smoking room, so there is a choice by guests. ''I ask one question – what if a hotel or a motel at a certain point has no room available for non-smoking, and there are, for example, one room available for smokers, but that day at the hotel reception, the room is four-bed, four guests come in, of those four guests three declare themselves non-smoking, one is a smoker? If this amendment is accepted in the room, no smoking will be allowed. Under this bill, it would be logical for smoking to be allowed. I find it simply inadmissible, that it is contrary to the very essence of the law and the reasons for its adoption and I suggest that the Government accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39655	From the time of the parliamentary group, 15 seconds have been used. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another opportunity to see how unprofessional you are, and legal illiterate, I would like to point out to you the provision of article 6, which says: "The responsible person in the catering facility has the right to make a decision that smoking is forbidden in all rooms. ''I ask you, Mr. Minister, what does this mean in the light of the provision of Article 3 of this Law, which says that smoking is prohibited in every closed, working and public space, under the conditions prescribed by this law? Since you obviously do not understand the real importance of this provision, this means that Article 3 of this law generally requires a ban on smoking everywhere in every work and public space, and that space includes certainly accommodation facilities, hotels, hostels and everything else. Mr. Minister, I understand that you are not an expert on this, that you probably didn't even read this law, as well as the one on medicines that the government has authorized you to be an authorised representative, but that's your problem, so if you don't understand yourself in some matter, then you shouldn't have accepted that you're in a position to defend what's pointless to the MPs in the National Assembly. Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8 prescribe exceptions to the general rule and if you read Article 8 you will see the conditions under which a designated authorised person may prescribe an exemption from the general smoking ban. Therefore, the provision of Article 6 that a responsible person may prescribe a ban in all rooms is absolutely pointless. This prohibition is prescribed by Article 3 and is prescribed for all cases, and only a certain exception can be made. As pointless as this is, it's clear to everyone, but there's another danger. We'll get to her later, and those are the criminal provisions of this law. We have seen that when it comes to some violations and for the purposeless spending of funds from the budget, then penalties are for the responsible persons, i.e. for the minister extremely small and that, at worst, if you spend some hundreds of millions or billions against the law, you can be punished with 50,000 dinars misdemeanorly. Of course, when it comes to violations that you prescribe for someone else, those penalties are far greater, so fines are from 50,000 to millions of dinars. I refer you to Article 28, paragraph 1, where point 4 says that a fine of 500,000 to a million dinars will be punishable by a legal person if no decision on smoking is made in all rooms, a written document does not specify special rooms in a hotel, a motel, a hostel and another facility in which smoking is allowed. Why, Mr. Minister, would a decision like this be made in the first place if the law prescribed that smoking is generally prohibited everywhere? Then why does someone have to make a special decision that smoking is prohibited in every room in his hostel or hotel, as well as in a catering facility? It's something that's meant to be. Only if someone wants to make an exception then they will say – in two rooms, in five rooms, in ten rooms, every third room will be prohibited from smoking. This is something that's completely illogical. I urge you once again, Mr. Minister, that, apart from what your associates have prepared you to read, you give a concrete answer to one of these remarks that are very much in place and that, as you can see, are really in place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39657	Four minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family, submitted an amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39658	This amendment specifies the provision of Article 9 of the proposed law to read – smoking is allowed in the rooms in which they are staying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39659	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39660	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 concerning accommodation in special institutions. Because of the psychiatric patients being treated and because of the nature of their own illness, I am pleased that this amendment to Article 9 has been accepted on the Committee on Health and Family. This will contribute to respect for the human rights of mental patients and address the problem of discrimination against other somatic patients, and on the other hand, it will solve a problem that is really inadmissible, i.e. it is impossible for psychiatric patients to prohibit smoking. And so does the present minister, here present, who has a family member who works in psychiatry. I have submitted the amendment, which reads: ''In Article 9 after Article 1, a new attitude 2 is added: In psychiatric institutions, hospitals and psychiatric wards in which people are treated with mental illness smoking is allowed. The facility must specify a special space and rooms for the accommodation of those who express a wish in which smoking is not allowed. The existing section 2, 3, 4 and 5 becomes section 3, 4, 5 and 6." This enables adequate protection against exposure to tobacco smoke by users, or patients in non-smoking establishments. Patients with psychiatric disorders are much different from somatic patients. Often they have no insight into their condition or nature of their problems. The capacity for mental disorder today is significantly extended. It was necessary to do so in a more appropriate way in order to reflect what is in practice. Help today and from psychiatric and health services is at all required by people who do not belong to classical psychiatric entities such as psychosis. This amendment refers to psychiatric institutions, hospitals or psychiatric wards in general hospitals where they are being treated, in addition to patients who have some form of psychosis, and patients with psychosomatic problems or life problems resulting from increasingly complex living conditions, increasingly pronounced adaptation efforts, as well as stressful and crisis situations in which Serbian citizens are living on a daily basis. Unfortunately, this new pathology, which we could say is more social than psychiatric, gradually procedures even the most healthy part of the population, especially young, by showing up, among other things, and various forms of dependence where dependence on tobacco smoke is expressed. The medical and social significance of this new pathology is given by the fact that at least 20% of patients seeking medical assistance belong to this group – the problems of everyday life. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the rights of all patients, and particularly advocates the rights of mental patients, who are forced to be hospitalized. To make this law more effective, we have submitted this amendment. Here we think of the process of implementing the law in practice. Mr. Minister, who will be the responsible person in psychiatric institutions? How will a responsible person who does not take a cigarette from a psychiatric psychotic patient be punished? How is that responsible person gonna ban smoking in psychiatric institutions? What measures will take to take a responsible person, to remove a face from that space, which, even after an oral order, does not stop smoking. I'd like you to at least answer any of these questions on behalf of the citizens of Serbia? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39661	Two minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39662	Thank you, Madam Chairman, just one comment first. The solution given in the previous amendment, I think it was far too much and I don't know why it wasn't accepted, but to make a joke, to tell everyone as soon as you go crazy, you'll be able to smoke as much as you like. Although some people think smokers aren't, they're trying to get through that smokers aren't very normal, so maybe they could just go under this point of the law. Okay, this was a joke. In Article 10, I continue to deal with the preservation of characters and works of writers of this law, so I think at least some things, which are out of their minds, are thrown out of that law, because in point 3), where they are spoken of the room, which the conditions must satisfy the room so that it can be smoked, are said again – that there is a ceiling and that, apart from having doors and windows completely closed from all sides, solid walls from floor to ceiling. I repeat once again, if you don't understand me, then the room is something that must have four walls, which must have a floor and must have a ceiling. It doesn't have to have windows, but it has to have doors to get in. So it's a room. I don't see what it means to have a ceiling. If there's no ceiling, it's not a room. Also, you say in point '5' that the door does not open in a room where smoking is not allowed. '"Where are they going to take that door? That means they're going back to the room where the smoking is allowed. Thus, according to the law of deduction, smoking is allowed everywhere. Since there's a place where smoking isn't allowed, obviously some doors will open in that space. I don't see what you want with this fort. If you think that's okay, you can think, but that's where I'll put the dot. So, of course, we've suggested that these two pointless provisions be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39663	45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39664	Ladies and gentlemen, with our amendment, we tried to erase Article 1st item 11 because it is quite unequivocal that this law is so that the ban on smoking is general, so we saw one indifference why we would highlight the prohibition sign when it is general, and thus, perhaps, sometimes, some, circumstances, some sort of wall and some monumental objects in a closed space make it inconsistencies, ugly, because the stickers are often huge and 30 centimetres of square shape. They were polite and preconceived at the time of the adoption of the previous law, the movement of the anti-smoking procedure. Now, when it's also a bird on the branch, it's clear that smoking is a harmful thing and that everywhere you can expect only a ban, and rarely to see a green label, we think it's too high. What else is excessive and supports many discussions so far? What a great intensity it is to ignore the fact that 30, 40% of people in Serbia smoke and now punish them rigorously, persecute when you have this idea in front of you, where you absolutely don't know what to write anymore. In an explanation, in response to the Government when not accepting the amendment, you say, on such a logical and excessive proposal – we delete paragraph 1: 'Amendment is not accepted for the reasons of Article 11(3). Proposal for a law given the power of the Minister responsible for Health Affairs to prescribe the forms and contents of the smoking ban sign. ''What does it have to do with the fact – we don't want the sticker to be where it shouldn't be, with the minister getting the authority and prescribing shape and size and color, etc. We don't go into his jurisdiction. We are not a competitive firm to get a job and make smoke-free contacts, but we just wanted to say – don't paint and pink a monumental building, in each segment is a ban, a ban, when we know it is. Just put where you can get in, if, already, you predict, somewhere for someone. How are you going to do that, say, a ban in the back yard at the hospital; you go out to the yard, you take off your coat, and I'm not talking about how humiliating it is for 25-30% of the health care workers who smoke, unfortunately. Unfortunately, but that's a fact. So, what do you want to do now? On a tree to nail the sticker? I can't, not a mile away, and now they're bidding on health homes: can I get 50 meters away, take off my coat, so will they report me to a patient, so you're not at work, so will anyone else be an observer, this key that's going to report, and call the inspector?- I'm sorry. Where are you going to put the sticker? Some things are totally amazing. So you came up with the law that the basic idea goes as rigorously as possible and as rigorously as possible, you start at the first ball, and when you explain, at least, read what we wrote and give us a credible explanation for what you honor us for, and why you don't, at last, want to accept. There, about, that's it, to save time for the next law, which is also important.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39665	Fifty seconds of time spent by an authorised representative. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39666	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here in this amendment we have provided for a member of the 12th Law to be deleted, in part, a similar amendment was submitted by counterpart Aleksandra Jankovic. You see, in Article 2 of the Law, we think this is too high. Article 2 makes it clear what a "responsible person" is, and how they are bound by it. The following members, after 5, 6 and not to mention, correctly state what the responsible person is doing in the appropriate situations (not to quote), are all the members we have discussed so far. Practically Article 2 of the term responsible person has been resolved through these obligations. We think now that this member is more arranged for these members after, from two to six, where this responsible person is now transferring a written duty to do shift work and in charge of people who need to control smoking. On the other hand, we now have a transmission here, let's say, powers on persons working in shift work or if a responsible person is unable to control and carry out that smoking control, or ban. This member is also connected directly to Article 13 to which we have the amendment again – we propose erasure. The next article now states that they must be highlighted in the visible place of the responsible person’s name. That's a little absurd. So in those rooms where smoking is forbidden will be highlighted, name and last name, telephone, fixed or mobile, persons who exercise control. Then the question arises, will now be authorized persons, these persons who tasked the person responsible to work on the second or third shifts when they are not there, whether their names will be highlighted there. Indeed, we believe that this can in practice lead to many ugly situations, which are ordinary things, that any name and last name with a phone will be abused for various reasons. Any of the relevant situations of interpersonal nature, conflict, various situations. This member reminds me of something you may not have to say, and you probably do. Do you know that there are phones where you can order over the phone to call your friend or acquaintance an automatic who pretends to be a militiaman, a machine that presents itself as a friend? In my environment, people were in awkward situations. It's a joke, but people are in awkward situations. Now, this reminds me of that, when they put the phone number, that someone, maybe, would abuse it. I think that in the practical part of this is going to be a pretty everyday phenomenon, out of the malice of vengefulness, these are hard words, but that's what we live with, so we think that another solution could be found in this article. In principle, in an institution where smoking is prohibited, and you will vote this law, you will know who the responsible person is and every employee will be able to address the responsible person directly, because they will know who it is, because there is a smoking ban that binds to the direct performance. To rule out those parts that are the public sector, where there are a lot of parties that come on various grounds. But, I say, we suggest that this member be deleted. The explanation for the next member, they're somehow connected to each other, but, really, that standing on the taraba name and last name with the phone produce a lot of other practical things, and, on the other hand, does not improve this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39667	Three minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) To Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I'm setting a break for the session. We are completing the morning work and continue at 15.00 hours, with a debate in particular on Article 13, on which the amendment in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Group of Members of the Parliament, Serbia and MP Zoran Shami. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the afternoon session. Before we move to the debate in the details of the amendment to Article 13, I would ask Minister Nebojsa Bradic to declare the amendment, which is based on Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Health and Family, and on Article 7, I ask the statement because it was not clear and clear, to enter the stenogram. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39669	The amendment is accepted. The proposed amendment shall be subject to legal and technical regulation and coordination with the definition of public space referred to in Article 2(7), as well as legal and technical harmonisation of Articles 5 and 6. The bill, which aims to specify the definition of a catering facility, whose area is less than 80 square meters, refers only to those objects that are not in the composition of another area in which smoking is prohibited under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39670	Thank you. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? I haven't registered in the electronic system. It's a lot easier to put a card on. Here you are, MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39671	Otherwise, I rarely suggest that a member of a law be deleted, but this time I had no other choice. I have to read to you Article 13 of the Bill's proposal, which reads: "The responsible person is obliged to point out in one or more visible places in a place where smoking is forbidden to point out his name, or the name of the person who has charged to control in his name the ban on smoking from Article 12 of the 12th century 2-4 of this law, with information on the place where that person is located and the telephone number on which smoking can be reported in that space." This is beyond any good taste. It's not worth explaining why, because whoever wrote this and didn't accept the amendment to erase this, obviously nothing is worth explaining to him, not even for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39672	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39673	I suggested, on behalf of the DSS, that in Article 14 paragraph 1 in point 2) the following should be placed instead of a comma, and the rest of the sentence should be deleted. It is that this point 2) reads: ''that the oral order of non-smoking offenders to stop smoking in the space for which the person is in charge', and now what I suggest is to delete, 'as well as take measures to remove from that space a person who does not stop smoking after the oral order.' I'm sorry, this rest, I don't see how it's gonna work, except by applying force. This is directly contrary to the Public Security Act, where it is fully specified who and who and under what conditions it can apply force. You expect the person in charge to be beaten with someone who smokes illegally or doesn't know what to do, in what way he's going to throw him out of that space, except by using force. It's completely pointless what it says here. It's okay to warn him, and if he doesn't warn him, he can turn him in to be punished, etc. I don't see what else a person in charge can do. It's absolutely pointless to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39674	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, to Article 14. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39675	Article 14 refers to the obligation of the person in charge of the control of the smoking ban. The amendment reads: "Article 14(2) is deleted. "In the government's explanation, among other things, it is said that the bill left the law to the responsible person to initiate a disciplinary procedure against the employee who violated the smoking ban. Why does it matter? It would not be good if the fight against smoking was reduced to the possibility of abuse in the workplace. The SRS is interested in the functioning of the health care system. Is he working today? Not as Serbian citizens, as statistics and as the SRS Group considers. That could be much better, but we don't think this bill is the only solution for health care to work properly. We also believe that this law is not good and that is why we will not vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39676	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me only rely on what my distinguished colleague Paunovic said. What did I suggest in this amendment? This responsible person would be required to make a report, in the case referred to in Article 1, if he catches someone smoking, translated into a free national language, immediately, on the violation of the smoking ban in accordance with this law and to deliver it without delay to the responsible person. We have suggested that the following be done on a well-intentioned basis, that that notification be made to the competent person within three days. Here, I'm a doctor and I'm on duty Friday night, night, let's say, I'm on duty (I've had so many years, I've been in my facility) and now I see someone smoking, I take, leave a patient and make a memo, or maybe she's in charge of some nurse, who's also on duty, I don't know who might be, we'll see. And, now, on Friday night, two hours after midnight, it takes immediately, without delay, to inform the director, he's a competent authorised person. Is that possible? It's not. You'll say, "Well, there are some doctors out there, you're a little on duty." City bus, Friday night, a quiet passenger comes back, lights a cigarette. Of course, he's breaking the law. What's the driver gonna do, leave the steering wheel, make a record, no driver's vehicle, and immediately notify the director, say, of the City Traffic Company?- I'm sorry. The diameter of three, the plane, the flight to Australia, or I don't know anyone else, it doesn't matter which way we go, let's say, the bypass route, someone smokes a cigarette, a stewardess, what, make a record and immediately inform the director?- I'm sorry. Practically, impossible. And we're very good at saying that it's inconclusive, and you say no, and with what reason, funny? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39678	Anyone else want a word? (No) The National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39679	I think this amendment from the government has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39680	The amendment has been accepted, but it is the subject of debate, since it has not become an integral part of the bill, because the Legislative Committee has not given a report, so it must be placed in the case. If you want a word, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39681	No problem. In Article 15, the word "Minister" is replaced by the word "Government". The World Health Organization's health definition points out that health is a state of physical, psychological and social well-being. The definition is, above all, that physical, psychological and social aspects are both in health and in disease, inextricably linked and in mutual dependence. In this respect, the programme and primary health prevention can only be achieved if the Government provides personnel, technological, educational, research, information and any other support. So, the minister, and anyone, is not capable of providing himself with a programme of prevention against tobacco smoke, because it's a multidimensional problem. It shows that even the best-developed health services cannot provide themselves, i.e. without the involvement of other sectors and the entire community, satisfactory public health protection. For all these reasons, the SRS believes that medical healthcare is no longer a synonym for health care. Health care involves a very wide range of professional and social investments and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39682	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39683	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, Article 15 discusses the problem of preventing and curbing the use of tobacco products. In Article 2(2), the following point is added: 'The funds for implementing the programme referred to in Article 1(1) shall be provided by the Budget Fund established in accordance with the law governing tobacco. First and foremost, I don't think any means are necessary. These transactions fall into the regular affairs of the Ministry and there is no need to provide for any necessary means to implement prevention in the prevention of the use of tobacco products. It's just that I think it's a matter of putting extra funds on the little door, another extra cost on the budget, which I think is very unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39684	Anyone else want a word? (No) To the title above Article 16 and Article 16 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the international MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39685	Article 16 refers to a smoking prevention office. The amendment that we have submitted reads: "The title above Articles 16 and 16, pages 2 and 3 are deleted. "The implementation of social care for the health of the population in the Republic of Serbia belongs to the regular affairs of the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic-Batut". The Office for the Prevention of Smoking has existed for several years at the Institute of Public Health "Batut". What are the results of all possible regulations, laws, strategies, promotions, expensive manifestations during the economic crisis? You're creating another galaxy that won't bring results. If you really wanted to fight tobacco smoke, you would increase excise duties, you would reduce the production of cigarettes, because the budget in the Republic of Serbia is at a loss every year because of this tobacco industry. Also, we believe that simplifying the expensive state administration is necessary, and at this time the introduction of a new Office for the Prevention of Smoking is neither economic nor fundamentally justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39686	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and joint MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Messenger of the People, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39687	Thank you. What we're proposing is about what my colleague just said about this same member. I don't mind, however, organizing something called the Smoking Prevention Office, so I suggest you delete it. Paragraph 2 states: "The tasks of Article 1 are being carried out in the organisation unit of the Institute of Public Health established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Office for the Prevention of Smoking). ''Station 3. ''The funds for carrying out the tasks referred to in Article 1 shall be provided by the Budget Fund established in accordance with the law governing tobacco. ''I think it's a regular obligation of the Institute of Public Health. I don't think he should particularly have some kind of organisational unit that's going to be spending his special budget money again. If we continue at this pace to organize agencies and offices, call it whatever you want, for various jobs, how we're going to even get down and deal with it, and we've passed a law on the reduction of employees in government authorities, and each law introduces two or three bodies that need to hire some new people who are going to do those jobs for what, in fact, there are already employees, like their regular labour obligation. Therefore, I am fully and the DSS MPs are against the introduction of these new bodies. Of course, more, especially, if additional funds are to be allocated for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39688	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. After that, MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39689	Thank you. The third opposition parliamentary group also advocates erasing the 'cancellary' as an institution that is intended to be part of the Institute 'Batut'. If, as explained, the same number of people and the same number of personnel will do the same job, then there remains a socio-realistic demagogy – social health care. I don't think the greater social concern is being run by anyone, but by the minister who passed this law. With such a rigid law. Here's your social concern, first of all, in your pocket, then by the protection of the smoking population, etc. I don't know what they'll come up with when day and day at the Institute is waiting for local and regional institutes to send processed data, insert it into the computer, some statistician does something, and that's the end of the story. They're full of project funding, various other obligations, whose work we can't talk too much about, because most of the time we're not even sure exactly what they're doing anymore. We think it's the creation of an institution, which, we'll see later, will be in cahoots with the Commission, which is once again a parallel, again some help from the Minister and the Ministry. We think it is unnecessary, incorrect, and that raising attention to one such level about what will happen to non-smokers compared to isolated and infected smokers, does not deserve one social care of that wound, which will mean additional payments from budgets and smokers and non-smokers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39690	The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39691	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you again that we have brought this discussion down to one level of endangering the rights of smokers and non-smokers. In fact, we need to focus it on the serious public health problem that we have as a country, which means that a large number of smokers, in principle, have more highlighted us, in fact, giving meaning to this risk factor that further produces a high frequency of chronic non-infectious diseases. If we find that this is a serious public-health problem, and, in doing so, most, at least the people of the profession, will tell you that the best means of combating it, in addition to this law, which seems to me, however, there is only one aid, is prevention. Prevention costs a lot, these programmes that are being implemented cannot be implemented on a volunteer basis, it marks the country's serious intention to be firmly defined through an institutional framework called the "office" and, on the other hand, by providing funds for implementation of the programme, to deal with what I repeat is a serious public-health problem in Serbia. Let me remind you, we so-called. The tobacco dinar, or money we use from the Budget Fund, which is normally filled with, therefore, one dinar per pack of cigarettes, these are significant means, but I assure you that they are still not as big a means of smoking, as a risk factor, primarily in causing cardiovascular disease and lung cancer. I don't think that amendments like this should be accepted and that we must absolutely have the agreement on whether the state really seriously intends to deal with what is a serious problem, and that is still a huge, huge number of smokers in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39692	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, two minutes and 25 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The National MP Gordana Paunović – Milosavljevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39693	Article 17 refers to the tasks carried out by the Office for the Prevention of Smoking. The amendment reads, "Article 17 is deleted. '"The government's explanation is completely confusing, and now I'm going to read it to you. It is claimed that the tasks referred to in Article 17. The bill, which will be carried out at the Institute of Public Health of Serbia, will continue to be carried out by employees working on the same and similar jobs. So if this is claimed, then it is claimed that in fact there is already an office at the Institute of Public Health that fights smoking, or the Office for the Prevention of Smoking. ''Amendment is not accepted, and for the reason that no other law, other than the draft law, is prescribed for the existence of a special organisational unit at the Institute of Public Health which performs the tasks prescribed in Article 17.'' Now I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, and since he's gone, how has this office been working and working at the Institute of Public Health, based on what legal solutions? This office also appears in the media, appears on TV, there is a director, Dr. Dželtovic, and there are staff. On what basis is it formed, if it isn't based on some, surely, legal regulation? So we don't think it's necessary to double the institutions that already exist, they can be legalized, I don't think this law was the way to legalize those institutions that are already functioning. And in this situation, we should work to reduce the number of these offices that require funding from the budget and not contribute significantly to the implementation of the risk factor prevention programme. We know that from 2000 until now, for ten years, in all those actions to prevent smoke prevention and smoking bans, smoking has been reduced by 6.9%, which means no one per cent per year. I don't think that these are some results that are commendable and I think that smoking prevention should start from primary school, should be done in basic schools of health-care work that will ultimately cost nothing, which can be a kind of voluntary teaching for which children can commit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39694	A minute and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to the title above Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39695	I am very pleased that you are chairing today when it comes to these amendments and I simply think that the biggest problem I have highlighted, and in the principle debate, the great hypocrisy this society, and particularly the Government, is showing. Serbia, therefore, has decided to follow Western standards when it comes to smoking in public places, of course, not when it comes to salaries, pensions, health and social protection, workers' protection, trade union organisation. A thin worm in each member explains how we are going to fight this vice, and it turns out that the winners of this whole situation are going to be producers of withdrawal funds, and the losers of companies whose workers will constantly be on cigarette breaks. People's rights and the freedoms of smokers to be exercised, smokers would say, a kind of genocide, right now, that we don't even talk. To all this, the number of employees in all possible authorities of the state administration is reduced, and now we're inventing some diverse commissions that need to be dealt with, I don't know, by preventing such difficult forms of addiction, and we don't have a similar commission to prevent another type of disease and that simply, the public fact that the youngest registered drug addict is nine years old. Therefore, such commissions do not, but, here, the title above article 18 says -- we need to build a commission to prevent tobacco use. Since previous members of 16 and 17 are scheduled to form the Office for the Prevention of Smoking, I really don't see that it's economic, nor that it's fundamentally justified now to form some commission, unless, again, you have some staff that you recently fired, so now you need to hire them in another sector, and nepotism in the government is a public secret. By providing social care for the health of the population in the Republic of Serbia, by preserving and improving health, by detecting and curbing the risk factors for developing a disease, by gaining knowledge of habits related to a healthy lifestyle – who deals? Well, first of all, I'm a minister, who signs a program to prevent and suppress tobacco use. I am sorry that the minister is ill, but it is also a fact that the minister who is in five terms can certainly continue to deal with everything and everything. So, in that sense, it is unnecessary that, besides the Office for the Prevention of Smoking, there is also any commission for the prevention of tobacco use, because I think the minister will do very well in this, as it is now in everything, and that this office is quite enough to cover a major concern of the Ministry of Health for the threatened health of its population from tobacco smoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39696	A minute and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39697	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today during the debate proved that the MPs, rather I would say the passionate smokers who discussed today had one single desire to leave the situation as it is today, that in this way they are poisoning themselves and others, and the situation today is that people who have not been defined as having the ability to work normally at work at the workplace -- do not have the ability to enter the restaurant, not have the opportunity to enter the mail, on the counter into some banks, have no possibility, even, in the executive bodies of the government, so I would say to the National Assembly of Serbia, to work normally and do their work without fear that the space in which they enter is untranspared, to say, these days there have been a lot of stories about this dust coming from this volcanic smoke, but that is something similar in all these rooms and places where smokers are located, full of ashtrays, unsight to be. So it's one fact that people today are trying to defend, or change this law so it doesn't look like anything. I am one of those in this parliament who is sitting, who advocates an absolute ban on smoking in public places, and I believe that this law is only a step towards achieving this goal, with the wish that in 2012 and in Serbia, smoking in those places will not be allowed. I'd have to remind you because today the things that have already been said in the principle debate on some data have been repeated, simply, that talk about the consequences of smoking. In fact, 798 people die in car accidents in the Republic of Serbia. That's a significant number of people, so 798 people. In Serbia, however, 16,000 people die annually as a result of smoking. We have a ratio of 789 people who die in car accidents and 16,000 people who die from tobacco smoke, smoking. There are not only smokers but also non-smokers who are also active participants in the inhalation of tobacco smoke created by smokers. So one Alexine, the Great Plan, Stara Pazova, Tristenik, Shid, Negotin, dies annually from tobacco smoke, so as not to list 16,000 cities. The application of the law, very rigorous, I would say, which regulates the area of traffic, could be a good example of the reduction in the number of people killed in car accidents by, some, 40 and 50% of the application of this law. The application didn't start until a few months ago. By one quarter, the number of deaths in Serbia has been reduced. Imagine if we could save a quarter or half of the people who die of tobacco smoke every year, eight thousand people, to save through application, above all, preventive measures. I agree that preventive measures are necessary both in kindergarten and in school, in high school, in colleges and in all institutions where tobacco smoke addicts work, with whom they also need to work. It's not their fault they lived in a state that didn't take care of the prevention of this addiction. Of course, these people need help. Educational courses should be organised for them and for quitting smoking, but above all, people who are not smokers should be protected. The smoker, as is known, draws in one quarter of the tobacco smoke, and the other three quarters lets into a place where non-smokings are often found. To remind me that in the world annually, around four million people die from tobacco smoke with a good trend that in 2020, some 10 million people die from tobacco smoke. The saddest thing is that most of these deaths in developing countries, and Serbia is among the developing countries. I'll remind you, as much as my colleagues have talked about it today, that smoking is the most common cause of bronch and lung cancer, ear cavity, oesophageal, stomach, heart disease and blood vessels, strokes, etc. Not to mention the secondary consequences of everyday presence in smoking areas, so when you come home your clothes are full of tobacco smoke, which you bring to children, family, and not to mention that the rooms where you smoke and which are very often closed, because smokers do not allow spaces to be spent, very often they are not spaces where you can work qualityly. I'm one of those who can't do quality work in places where the ashtrays are filled and where the smoke to that level is that it's just hard to breathe. Every day in Serbia, 44 people die from smoking, tobacco smoke. In the end, it's 16,000 people. All those who advocate the relativisation of this law, which advocate certain provisions that would reduce such a very liberal law against smokers, have in some way the need, I would ask them to consider those 16,000 people who die each year in Serbia as a result of tobacco smoke, who will die both these and the coming years if we do not take very active measures to ensure that this law is applied. Interesting data is about the number of smokers among the basics, each fourth founder is a smoker. Interestingly, more than 33.5% of students smoke at Belgrade University. However, it is interesting that 96% of non-smoking students at Belgrade University believe they are victims of smokers and do not have a quality way to oppose it. Everyone who doesn't smoke thinks they're victims, but they don't have the mechanisms to resist it, because they're very often smokers, except students, and university professors and help university workers, and they have no way to protect themselves, except to spend time outside college. I will also remind myself of the consequences of smoking, once again, if there is to be another road to the end of this debate, based on 50 years of research done by the British Institute in doctoral studies, which is one of the longest research ever conducted in any area, says that people who smoke 25 or more cigarettes a day risk for lung cancer is 50 times greater than non-smokers. Not 50%, but 50 times the risk of getting lung cancer in a smoker. Also, they have come to the conclusion that smoking leads to an increase in mortality from many other diseases, in the first place heart attack, chronic obstruction of lung disease, etc. Half the smokers die from smoking diseases, while a quarter of the smokers die in the middle years of life. Smokers have an average of ten years shorter lifespan than non-smokers. During the 50 years observed, the duration of the study, six million inhabitants of Great Britain died from the use of tobacco smoke. Exposure to tobacco smoke causes other problems: male impotence, women may be born with lower body weight, premature birth, etc. However, quitting smoking, leaving cigarettes, as it is said in our people, can cause positive consequences. Thus, the failure of smoking, according to this study, can have equally dramatic but positive health effects. Thus, people who stopped smoking up to 30 years of age almost had no increased mortality, and the life expectancy was almost as high as non-smoking. Even with smokers who stopped smoking only in their 60 ’ s, it happened that their life span was extended to some three years, which is not negligible. In the end, in the voting day, I will support this law, in hopes that this is only the first step, as I said, in a complete ban on smoking in the Republic of Serbia. I hope that the Serbian Parliament will be an example in the application of this law, but also in all executive bodies, including the government of Serbia and the institutions it established. I will personally fight for this law to be applied, given the supervisory role that the National Assembly has over law enforcement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39698	11 minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39699	Right on the line. As a doctor, I can't rephrase Mr. Veselinović to this presentation. Today we've been hearing about tobacco smoke and the biggest cause of all fatal illnesses. I don't think that's true and that the tobacco smoke problem is important and needs to be solved. As a person who has never smoked and as a person who will never smoke, and as a doctor and as a member of the SRS, I advocate solving this complex issue, however, I believe that there are much more important and bigger problems in this country than there is a problem with tobacco smoke. If we're just talking about risk factors that cause death, cardiovascular and malignant diseases, the tobacco smoke factor is just one of the factors that causes the death of a person. I don't think Mr. Vesenovic's data is correct, because even after an autopsy, it can't be determined with 100% certainty that the risk factor, i.e. tobacco smoke, is the cause of mortality from, for example, lung cancer. If that were the case, you'd know what it is, and you'd be treated with lung cancer. We also believe that there are far more important and dangerous risk factors in this country that destroy us every day, starting with environmental pollution, and here we are now living in an uncertain situation, we don't know what the situation of this volcanic pollution is. We might know that in a month or two. Also, we don't even know what the situation is from the still existing bombs resulting from NATO bombings that are located in every city and in Belgrade. There's a bomb near the clinic center that hasn't been removed yet, so the air we're breathing, Panchevo, Bor, Kladovo and some other cities where it's very difficult, I think it's very important. Also, there's a water problem. We don't know what kind of water we're drinking. We don't know what the pollution of the land is, then, pesticides that are spraying food that we feed on a daily basis. All of this even affects the quality of life and the cause of many diseases. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39700	Thank you. Right on line, MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39701	This isn't a replica. I'm using the MP's time group. I also want to make it clear to you one more time, and what we pointed out in the principle debate. The fact that there are other risks associated with natural or unnatural objective things affecting us, the rays of the sun, radiation in factories, etc., of course no one slows them down, however, we are talking about one of the risks (that is why I have also cited an independent survey in Great Britain, one of the studies that is probably with the best references in the area) as well as estimates of experts on mortality risks in Serbia, which do not allow us to ignore one of the first risks of mortality among the dead in Serbia. Maybe that's 17,000 or 15,500, but that's 15,500 and 17,000, which is a serious risk to whom we've given, in my opinion, not enough attention. Let me cross-reference this proposal with the law that was in this assembly on the agenda and which dealt with the issue of traffic security. It was a lot of bile, and everyone agreed that it was necessary to reduce the number of traffic accidents on our roads, that drivers and pedestrians had this responsibility, but also the state and in some way the institutions of the state. I hope we can agree that there is a responsibility of the state and every individual, including a smoker. But since there is no possibility of an agreement between smokers and non-smokers, because if there was a possibility of a social agreement that issue should not be regulated by law, it would be regulated by ordinary law. A smoker would not endanger a non-smoker and thus the need to regulate this legally would be lifted. However, since there is no such possibility, we must legally regulate this area. I think this law is quite liberal to smokers, because it allows them to smoke more in some cafes, in some restaurants, smoke on the street, which is not regulated by this law and is not an absolute smoking ban, so they should be satisfied with this law. I don't think smokers have any reason to be too pleased, but if this is one step towards an absolute smoking ban, then I agree with that one step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39702	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39703	Mr. Janko Vesenović, a man of a very famous name and last name, but I don't know exactly his profession, you seem like a volcanoologist, so far he's called passionate smokers accusing them of endangering non-smokings and trying to maintain the status quo. In the history of civilization, there are various attempts to treat people who use tobacco from inquisition to execution, so I don't know where you fit in. Do you know who the first victim of tobacco was? Columbus's sailor Rodrigo de Herez, because when he returned from his expedition to Cuba, he smoked in his hometown, and his fellow citizens accused him of being ruled by the devil, because smoke comes out of his mouth and nose, and so on. There are also some Turkish sultans who have imposed a fine for each smoker to pierce the nostrils with their own cig. Murat the Fourth for smoking has imposed a death sentence. I don't know where you guys are historically fitting in here, but the fact is that your approach is rather unusual, as much as you're the person who managed to find a causal-consequential relationship between smoking and death. You know, death is a pretty infectious phenomenon. Smoking-don't smoke, you have to die sometime. There's a very good Russian proverb that says, "He who doesn't drink and doesn't smoke will die healthy." The late Serbian intellectual and dissident Mihajlo Mihajlov adds up to it and says – whenever Americans warn me how bad it is that I eat meat, drink and smoke, like, accidentally, I remember a prominent vegetarian in the 20th century, who except for not eating meat, did not drink or smoke. Do you know his name? Adolf Hitler!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39704	The People's Messenger, Janko Veselinović, has the word, and the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39705	I will not ask my colleague Alexander Jankovic for her profession, nor will I characterise what interest I have in her hairstyle and her speech. I'm a doctor, but I don't do legal science and I don't do smoking as a science, but I'm a man who has a problem in everyday life with the fact that smokers, a group of smokers, a large group of smokers in Serbia, simply creates a situation that in Serbia every year of that pleasure or whatever anyone wants to call it, 16,000 people die. Last time I told Mr. Shami, he later said that I had no sense of humor, that it wasn't a subject we could joke about. Mr. Shami, by the way, knows a lot more songs about it than you do, Col. Jankovic, since last time there was a recital on the subject. Simply, the fact that 16,000 people die a year from smoking is not a joke. That won't be approved by your voters who may have lost a member of the family to that monster in the meantime, or anyone who is seriously accessing this problem. I didn't want to give you a reason for the replica, because it would hardly be over. Now I promise that I will no longer relate to this topic with my colleague Jankovic, I know that you like to bring spirit into your presentations, to approach it very passionately, and every topic for you is that it looks poetic, but this is not a topic, such as those 900 or 789 people who die in car accidents, so these 16,000 people are not negligible, nor is this a topic that we might be able to outsmart in parliamentary benches and, in some ways, create better skis, so that we can cheer up colleagues present in the hall and possibly people watching this part of the session. I don't think this is a joke theme, colleague Jankovic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39706	National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Djura Muchenski, Zoran Shami and Aleksandra Jankovic were reported in the electronic system. Since I have already said that the word will have Alexander Jerkov, then the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Shami will receive replicas, in that order, and after their presentation, the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39707	Actually, I wanted to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, MPs are obliged to treat each other with respect, Mrs Jankovic, I suppose, in her desire to be witty and to show herself witty, but how, by who knows which time, she insulted the MPs, based on their interest. It's not the first time she's done it in this congregation. I pray that in the future her behaviour is sanctioned, if it cannot be appealed in different ways, I think the strict application of the Rules of Procedure is appropriate in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39708	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've listened carefully to the MP, creativity in the approach to her position, I think I'll almost, well, quote, that she doesn't know the interest of the MP and that she's guessing she's a "vulcanologist." Not enough reason to warn her, interrupt or warn her. MP Zoran Shami, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39709	Very briefly, I'd like to inform you that I'm not poetic today, but I am philosophical. I don't know why, I have to say, I have to say, unfortunately, no one seems to be dying of stupidity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39710	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39711	Really, I couldn't tell what interest it was, and I don't see it as offensive. I apologize to you once again for speaking in my own time about your profession, respecting, of course, the criteria of gender equality, you are the "magistress", and it says "mr of European science" in that assembly manual. I don't see what the problem is or why you're being offended. What was problematic for me in exposing Mr. Veselinovic, as he reiterated, is in fact that it was his personal experience of endangerment. You are now listening to a whole set of speeches about an individual threat experience is not exactly something that is appropriate for the congregation. It's more like some kind of couch-analysis, etc. It's done elsewhere, and believe me, I'm authorized to tell you that. The second thing is that, besides this relationship that you're directly connected to, means a causal relationship between smoking and disease, you found a connection between smoking and car accidents. I'm not so sure that's the smoking we're talking about right now, the one that's causing car accidents. There's definitely some other kind of smoking, say, smoking marijuana, smoking some opiates, some assets that didn't become the subject of this law. The second thing, that you have a problem simply communicating with people who are smokers, and especially passionate, is something that falls into the problem of psychology. And Minister Bradic, who is here today, could explain that smoking is also a cultural phenomenon. Sometimes it's great and very stimulating to examine the tolerance of those who swear so much into tolerance, civil rights and freedoms. What I can see, Mr. Vesenovic, is that your unconscious failures have clearly shown that you are in a really great state of threat, because you told me – your smokers will agree, referring to voters, who have some family member who has been sick or died of this "honor" instead of "honor." I totally understand you're feeling threatened. I feel threatened, too, but from those who drive drunk, from those who are drugged, from those who use different other stimulants. Yesterday I was talking about how the Minister of Economy, dead 'cold, man, declares that plum should be used when you go bad, and that, in unlimited quantities. So that's what I'm afraid of. I fear that this government is jeopardizing the health of the Serbian population because it is hypocritical. On the one hand, if tobacco really is such poison and if, indeed, there are such consequences of exposure to tobacco smoke, why don't you ban that dangerous product. Why don't you ban him? Its production and sale are permitted. The strong are rich in it. Do I have to tell you right now to turn on the phone because Cane Sobotic is answering to tell you something?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39712	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39713	I'd just like to refer to this amendment that we're discussing right now, not to be accepted to delete this title, if I remember correctly, that's what we stopped at, there shouldn't be a commission to prevent tobacco use. In these heated discussions, various facts have been presented, and one incorrect fact has been presented that I must correct as a doctor and a health care professional. In fact, smoke negation has been tried as a factor in the risk of disease. There are numerous risk factors that cause different diseases. Tobacco, i.e. smoking, has been shown to be the most important individual risk factor for cardiovascular disease, as well as for other systems, including lung cancer and other lung disease. These are statistical studies and generally known medical facts, so it is a little unclear that this is a fellow health care professional because this brings a certain confusion among our citizens. I must correct that and act as a member of the Health Committee both as a doctor and as an MP. As a practical example of this, I'll give you the facts of what Finland did. With good prevention programmes, it reduced smoking in men from 76% to 26%, so by 50% it decreased over a period of 50 years. During that period, they managed to reduce the mortality of myocardial infarction by 73%, the incidence of all tumours by 17% and the primary bronch cancer by 63%. These are concrete statistics on what you manage to do well as a state when you act on smoking reduction, what obvious benefits for citizens are and what we as a country on its way to the EU should do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39714	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39715	I just wanted to say hello to you in one sentence by Duško Radovic, who said, about – who smokes will die, who does not smoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39716	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the people has the messenger of Pay the Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39717	I'm just getting attached, if you'll excuse me, to the exposure of my esteemed colleague, Muchensky. Finland is indicated. No, Finland, there was a project in Yugoslavia in Novi Sad. The new one was now the bearer of the Monica project. At the head of the "Monika" project was a prominent expert in the World Health Organization, Prof. Jakovljevic lives today as a New Sad citizen. I keep one piece of paper here from the Serbian Mother of Serbia library. You know that Matica is a Serbian reputable institution. Be careful, Professor. Jakovljevic and his team succeeded, as he was the only one in Yugoslavia to participate in the largest cardiovascular disease prevention project in the world, by 24% to reduce the mortality in Vojvodina. You have our examples, our bright examples. Here I have the paper that he (quote) in 4,873 references as a key researcher, in the world's most important database. So when we talk about these results, we also have our light data, and we use them. Well done to the Finns, yes, they did it first, and so did the crew in Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39718	People's MP Đura Muchenski, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39719	I thank my colleague Paji Momchilov for this exact case, and I would ask that the copy be given to his fellow MP, Dr Gordani Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39720	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia, joint MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic, and MP Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that when it comes to the prevention of tobacco use that we have a very chaotic regulation, that, in addition to the already mentioned Offices for the Prevention of Smoking, this Article 18 is introduced by the Commission for the Prevention of the Use of Tobacco and that is regulated only by two members. It's the foundation of the Ministry. You don't even have a number of members of that committee in that commission, which shows a lack of seriousness in the very approach to the establishment of this commission. You have one finding that it will be entered by people who have made a significant contribution to the prevention of smoking. So, a roof institution that needs to monitor the work of the Office for the Prevention of Smoking at Health Institutes is established, I would say, in such an unserious and formal way, as I said, in two members. But you did find in these two members enough space to take care of the financial resources for that institution, to link it to the regulation of this tobacco law and to give some of the information that should mean monitoring some programs, give an opinion on the work of these offices that are at a lower level. It seems to us that such an approach in prevention is quite unserious and that if this is how you take care of prevention, then this law itself is, when it comes to its application, I would say, under question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39722	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39723	I haven't negotiated with colleagues from the Prosperity Group Serbia, but obviously we have submitted the same amendment. By the way, I'm taking the opportunity to say hello to Mrs. Minister. Too bad she didn't come sooner, maybe we'd be more inspiring. I suggested on behalf of the DSS, although I am reluctant to do so, that members of 18, I will speak immediately of the next member, and of Article 19, are deleted. Of course, Article 19 deals, too, with the same problem. It is that a new body, called the Tobacco Prevention Commission, is being created again. That new body needs to be formed again. Some special funds are being allocated to him again, although existing institutions are also at the Institute for Health Protection and at the Ministry more than enough to carry out these tasks as their regular jobs. For this reason, we felt that Articles 18 and 19, I would not report again, should be deleted, as completely unnecessary in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39724	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 18th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39725	Article 18 refers to the tobacco prevention commission. The Commission for Prevention is an expert body. This professional body should be composed of experts involved in the prevention of tobacco smoke. That's another problem that's connected to the office. So, besides the Office, there has been, for many years now, and the Commission for the Prevention of Smoking at the Ministry of Health. Dr. Baptism is the president of this commission, and on several occasions last May 29th, two days before World Smoke-free Day, which on May 31st, presented alarming data, and these are the ones that, in some ways, make me unhappy, and these are data related to smoking pregnant women and young people. I believe that both are Serbia's future and that these people should be taken care of most. Dr. Baptism said that 37% of women in pregnancy smoked once or twice, and that about 23% smoked during the whole pregnancy. Also, it was reported that by the age of 10 in Serbia, every sixth child burned its first cigarette. These data are really worrying and alarming, and we think that smoking prevention should be done most in schools and health institutions, in children's homes of health where there should be counselling centres that need to do this kind of education. It's about this amendment. We believe that this commission should exist unlike the Office, which is a kind of organ that exists and is not an expert body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39726	48 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The 19th Amendment was submitted in the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia, then, together by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39727	Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed this amendment to delete Article 19, in fact, is related to Article 18 in which we think that the existence of this committee is illusory, because registration of people, loyal and loyal ministers, probably from his party, is more or less whether from the party, but one common feature will be non-smoking. If the minister had been a smoker, he would probably never have said that Zoran Djindjic hadn't noticed ashtrays by the ministries, I wasn't a Zoran Djindjic fan, but probably the man had a different list of priorities then, he wasn't chasing ashtrays around the ministries. Now we're building a single body, composed of experts and what an expert in the fight against smoking. I'm sure a cardiosurgeon should be, but what if a cardiosurgeon smokes? So, kicked out of the Commission?- I'm sorry. Simply, like this, it's a little improbable, the law introduces very discriminatory behavior, the law is designed to indicate that those who smoke are not, somehow, welcome in terms of understanding for the qualities they possess, which are once really harmful habits. Here, we agreed to be all smokers reduced to being addicts and we're only looking for a room where smokers can isolate themselves so they don't get chased, that they're the least disturbed by each other. The solution to this problem is not done through this commission, which will, of course, receive money, work, write something, and the sufficient promotion of health is, let's say, that every one of us who is visiting on television is truly honest, and there is no smoker who honestly won't say – smoking is harmful. So, at least once at the beginning of the show, and eventually the journalists put it into synopsis to say, like all other public figures to do and say, to prevent children, to prevent youth, to prevent those who have not yet started, because indeed, all of us smokers were once non-smoking. We were definitely the first to do that, and then we are now aware of how hard it is to get out of that vicious circle and how difficult it is for you and for the destimulative when you're being persecuted, worse than Al-Qaeda. You have no place to go, in your own country, orderly taxes paid for in everything responsible, with others equal, in the end you agree to be removed, marked, dimmed – so now whether your suits smell in passing with someone, etc. Excessive for Serbia a country of different species tradition, we should also experience those 50 years of northern Europe, so probably the number of smokers and spontaneously fall and we will probably succeed, speaking openly of our bad habits to convince others not to go that way. This path is not the Commission that is foreseen. It would be better if we had committees at the ministry who would now be asking why we are collecting money through television to treat severe diseases, why are we bringing in surgeons to operate, why don't we have our patients, why are we sending our patients to Turkey or other countries to operate, who's responsible for the hiatus in onco-surgery, who's responsible for the void and cardiosurgery, who's responsible for lack of space, where the money that's been given and who's received from donations to renew health institutions?- I'm sorry. On many issues, some commissions that already exist on different issues, are very numerous, have not provided answers, not commissions that will perform some kind of social action, some kind of clinical guidance and prevention protocols. All of us smokers are, more or less, at least I've tried everything there is to get rid of it. That didn't go easy. It's not easy or easy work and you don't need to cut it across your leg and take some pretty rigid steps to go on smokers. They basically don't deserve it, a team before, if they're aware that other damage in their environment and willing to reduce it to the least possible measure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39728	One minute and 40 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39729	Dr. Poscurica explained so well the essence of my reasons for eradicating this amendment, I almost have nothing to add. On the one hand, he pointed to a serious discriminatory attitude towards us that we agreed to call ourselves addicts of tobacco smoke, but also to the fact that any prohibition would hardly bear fruit. Because there are no offices that will be able to prevent and promote some healthy lifestyles, unless it's a personal testimony, modeling people. Many of us who started smoking cigarettes did it because they had the wrong direction. The directorate was – don't smoke, you're still small, so the incentive to smoke went out of some need to express rebellion towards adults and prove that you entered a world of older ones. At this point, many smokers are aware of all possible consequences, ultimately and the financial consequences that tobacco consumption brings, but a pesorative and discriminatory attitude will by no means contribute to joining them as the main motivators of a campaign to promote healthy lifestyles. During the discussion with Mr. Veselinović, I said something else, which I think is completely illogical, how will smokers really believe that smoking is so harmful, if the state has not banned such dangerous products? We've got double arches, double bookkeeping. On the one hand, by introducing the law, the state will collect double revenues through excise duties and through fines for smoking in public places. The ultimate motive, as I see it, is money, not citizens' health, and it is, another measure, how to pass on the EU, although in this case it was no requirement of us. It is also a fact that multinational tobacco industries are already making fantastic profits, and because of this western non-smoking trend, manufacturers of various auxiliary medicines, which occur as people who make cobajagi quitters. Generally, a bunch of these happy advices on how to preserve health comes to us from the West, where things are declared healthier and a trend is made for researchers to see that they are very dangerous after a few years. Remember that story about healthy margarine, which was to be eaten instead of butter, and soon it became harmful, and now only vegetable oil is recommended. Then came cigarettes that were expelled from public places. Only sometimes, as part of this overall hypocrisy is tolerated smoking expensive, say, Cuban cigars, we've seen different people as promoters of these Cuban cigars, with stamps of famous manufacturers or pipe, because, behold, their fans are members of the social elite. In the West, smokers are even so discriminated against that employers, as a condition for employment, indicate that the candidate is a non-smoker, with contempt for old workers reaching for a nicotine wand. In my clinical practice, I had the experience of a woman who suffered a kind of mobbing because her employer told her – you can work with me more, you're an oral addict. If we go along this line and if we go with some inquisitor idea, and if there's an uninterrupted term of ban in discussions, without offering what's supposed to be a positive sense of withdrawal from this kind of addiction, we're actually not going to do anything. There is no commission in the world, and especially not a committee of two who will carry out adequate prevention and promotion of healthy lifestyles, and especially for these young people living in Serbia and who, unfortunately, are left to endure their lives through disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39730	Two minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Vuk Dincic has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39731	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think perhaps the most important part of this law is just prevention. I'm not inclined to forbid anyone in one way or another, but I think all those who need to acquire some basic knowledge of the harmfulness of certain things, in this case we're talking about tobacco, that knowledge needs to be acquired and I think prevention might be the best way. The best way for me is by personal example to show that someone thinks something like this is as harmful as smoking. I have a very negative opinion on when doctors who have high expertise on smoking and its harmfulness promote smoking and say it should be done. When I talk about this amendment to Article 18 and the amendment to Article 19, I would understand that the opposition wants to fix it, that more powers are being given to the Commission for the Prevention of Tobacco, that it wants some other bodies to give more authority, I would absolutely support it, but this is primarily about eradicating these members, which, in my opinion, has the intensity of not wanting to allow any commission or professional people to explain themselves to citizens, young people, that smoking is harmful. I think general prevention may be the best way to fight smoking. In my opinion, it's a better way than any punishment, ban and everything. I would support any amendment relating to the increase in the competence of this commission, this commission, I suppose, will be there for professional people, I don't believe it has any desire, that such commissions that need to give expertise, entangle anyone. In Article 17, you have the report submitted by the health care institution in a three-month, six-month, and annual report. I would just like to appeal to the minister that, when he gets that kind of report, he also passes it on to the Assembly's board of directors, to see what the results are in the prevention and whether these commissions and these bodies produce adequate results. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39732	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39733	I'd like a replica, if I'm right, to answer the gentleman. The SRS and I consider prevention to be one way to fight tobacco smoke. However, we do not consider prevention the only way to fight tobacco smoke. As a doctor and as a person, I think smoking is a kind of addiction and it's a difficult kind of addiction, because it's not just a habit. A person who stops smoking, does not need and is not enough to just change their awareness that smoking is harmful, that tobacco smoke causes malignancies, cardiovascular diseases, and who knows what other diseases, needs to be treated voluntarily. That is why we believe that, in addition to this small number of institutions that exist today in Belgrade, perhaps only one institution that deals with these people's out of hospital treatment, there should be some other institutions in the local environment, where people, much more because of the stress, smoke. We didn't ask anyone. What are you smoking for? Most people smoke, not because of it – let me see what it looks like, but start smoking because they are nervous, because they are in a mood, because they have many problems related to existential problems. That's how it starts, and after that it becomes a kind of addiction, from which, as with all sorts of addictions, it's very difficult to release. And that prevention can't be the only cure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39734	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39735	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, cannot address Mr. Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, who has successfully avoided any discussion concerning health care, as he has now avoided. There was a minister here who wasn't in charge, who was inadequate, to defend the law on out-of-body insemination, and the man is a lawyer, so even now we have this situation. I speak primarily as a health worker, as a longtime smoker, for certain reasons. However, in any case, I stand for both right and smoker, not just non-smoking rights. In this case, this is a completely discriminatory law. A law that exudes one pathological hatred against smokers. I don't know why, I don't know why it even happened in a congregation debate. It's very common to me, right now it looks like a symposium, and that's a medical symposium about tobacco harmfulness. I hear here from lawyers, something from fellow doctors, something more than lawyers, about whether tobacco is harmful, whether 16, 15, 14, or 13 thousand people died, whether it's compared to car accidents one way or another. However, they are not real data, because they are dying of other things, nor can they, as Mrs Paunovic says, immediately prove whether someone died of tobacco. Risk factors are usually combined, not to mention stress as a risk factor, which is sometimes much larger than tobacco. We are here to discuss, to eventually fix this law, if possible, and to fix the nonsense of the bill, which your colleague Shami pointed out to you – whether there is a ceiling, there is no ceiling, there is a door of iron, wooden, with a doorknob and no doorknob and so on. It's nonsense in this law that looks like it's been prescribed by someone. You will allow me to have such a senselessness, as it exists in this law, there is, and it is a little dyspression, if in the country of the most developed democracy i.e. America buys a refrigerator or buy an iron, the usage prospectus says "uncoat" i.e. It's not for food. That's what this looks like to me now, to discuss whether the room should or should not have a ceiling. That may be a strong word, but it's "stupid". We have suggested, as a parliamentary group, that Article 21 paragraph 1 point 6 be deleted, and this is about supervision. On the other hand, this article gives the possibility and the right to care for the implementation of this law by the workers of the internal affairs. Allow me, smokers are not criminals! I guess we won't get into a situation, if someone doesn't comply with this law, that the militia is taking him out in a fox line because he didn't quit smoking. Maybe I'm a cartoon, but that's the kind of procedure, let me say, that's what it looks like. This has to be erased from the law. I can't let the workers of the internal affairs, i.e. militias to monitor whether this law is respected or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39736	A minute and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Janko Veselinović, right to the replica, followed by MP Vuk Dincic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39737	I'm sorry, I'm not going to use the line again, I'm going to use the time of the MP's group, because I'd like to rely on a few discussions, first of all, to discuss this amendment. I would have previously commented on the position of my colleague from the SRS Group, who is, by the way, a doctor who believes that a good number of people smokes because of stress. I agree that probably a good number of people smoke because of stress and that it is a problem that there is not enough prevention to tell people, advises that it is better to walk in nature, in the park, talk to people than to close up in a dark room with a pack of cigarettes and thus end the day. So, in that part, there's another solution. I must also refer to the discussion of my colleagues from the SNS, as from today's discussion, and even when it was discussed in the principle of this law, it was not possible to see whether the MPs from the opposition or the position discussed. More could be identified from the discussion, whether it is people who have responsibilities and think that smoking is harmful, that even those who are smokers realize that it is an addiction and that it would be good if that addiction stopped through various courses, rehab, etc., and that people who are not smokers should not suffer the fact that they have to breathe smoke from smokers. Such a discussion was conducted in this way both when discussed in principle and in particular. However, the role and position of the SNS are specific. They'd always like to meet everyone, and voters, on the one hand and on the other. They say, I don't know, this is a smoker torture, but they think we should protect non-smokings. Of course, they have no way of saying how to do it, how to settle those two strangers. This is like their views on the EU, if they were in the EU, but they are not sure whether voters would like it, so they would wait a little while, perhaps for a better moment to tell voters. Well, when a vote is voted and a debate is against the Srebrenica, they are for a declaration, and they are not for a declaration. When the first vote was held, they were abstentioned, and when there was a second vote, then they left the hall, so how do they assess, are they glad to be abstentioned or are they glad to be against the declaration? This is the highlight today, to say, in a way, of political hypocrisy, when you try to like voters in this way, and smokers and non-smokers, but camouflaged, so you don't see how you want to protect smokers, so you don't see how you want to protect non-smokings. The best thing to do is to get them out of this debate so that they're for smokers and non-smokers, so that non-smokers can sit in smoky rooms by smoking. So this law should look, roughly, with several members, without prevention, without being able to protect non-smokers, without even being able to afford certain rights to smokers, but, of course, they must not limit non-smokers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39738	Four minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Predrag Mijatovic, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39739	I would like to replicate to Mr. Veselinović whether the SNS has one or the other attitude, it is pure demagogy, and now hypocrisy is one of these discussions. We've made it clear about a lot of things that we think. Some things are never white or black, they can be gray and when they're gray then we say they're gray, when they're black, then they're black, when they're white, then they're white. Therefore, we did not say that we should like each other, nor did I speak in the sense that we should be courting smokers and non-smokers, but there should be one reasonable logical regulation, not repression, not savage, inquisitor, as it is now, and not that in the law of a serious state such as Serbia, such nonsense as ceiling, door, roll-door and the rest. So this kind of discussion basically doesn't lead to anything. As for the discussion on health care, I would like to tell Mr. Veselinović a Latin proverb, which says not to counter credidam, in translation means – the shoemaker should stay with the shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39740	The word is from the People's MP Vuk Dincic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39741	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would remind only my colleague Veselinović that Dr Mijatovic was neither 'for' nor 'against', nor 'abstained', he was decadent against the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration, even said that nothing special had happened there, there was no crime, there was nothing, nothing simple, everything was fine there and that he knew everything best. I'm not surprised that he has an opinion about us MPs that we're morons, that we have all kinds of attitudes and attitudes that we represent. Personally, no fellow I would ever call such expressions, especially the ugly words addressed to the Minister of Health. You know very well, Doctor, that he's in the hospital and I expected you, at least as his colleague, to have little consideration for that. He didn't avoid coming here, he would have come anyway, as he was in the principle debate. I don't see in this law that anywhere it says that a cop arrests anyone because he smokes, or I see here in this law that it's so discriminatory and that now we put some people, we build or anything like that. This law is liberal to me, this law has respected some realities and some customs in our country, and I wouldn't go into a more detailed debate, I won't answer for this anymore, but I think we should come back when it comes to the amendment, not to insult our colleagues and say such ugly things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39742	A minute and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Predrag Mijatovic seeks the right to reply. Just log into the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39743	Thank you very much. If you thought the word I used was addressed to you, it wasn't, or to anyone personally. I didn't say you were stupid, I said some legal provisions were stupid. So whoever was making the law can be offended and thinks he's a moron, but I didn't say it specifically to you. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as Srebrenica is concerned, I wouldn't discuss it. I expressed my position and opinion in the Srebrenica debate. It was my opinion behind which I stand, it was not the SNS' position, but Dr Predrag Mijatovic's attitude, it was my opinion, as an MP, not the SNS's position. Don't compare SNS to that! The SNS, however, is a democratic party and allows for different opinions and different opinions, is not a totalitarian party, as well as some other parties. My colleague says he hasn't read it, and he's writing in a nice way to explain the amendment. He says, "The Ministry of the Interior has given consent to that authority, since, etc., there is a service within the Ministry of Interior", etc. This meant that it was okay for MIP workers to be able to keep an eye on and monitor smokers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39744	The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39745	The Honorable Chairman, I would like to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Despite my colleague Dincic's warning from the ZES Group, I'm really surprised that you didn't notice in this previous statement that the bill promoter is characterized by the qualification, so "debile". At this point, a debate, which ran in one perfectly decent tone, begins to take some of the situations that we have had the opportunity to see in the previous days. Please, in accordance with Article 27, take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39746	No injuries. I listened very carefully to MP Mijatovic. Before using the adjective for certain provisions of the law, he made an introduction declaring that he would use too harsh a word, and these are the upper limits allowed in replicas or in self-exposures. When that line is crossed, then we intervene. By looking at the stenogram, you can make sure I'm telling the truth. I can only ask you, indeed, all of us, that we never forget, for one moment, to treat each other politely, for those who look at us and for those for whom we are, much more than for each other, so that I will remain with the previous decision that I do not warn and warn the apostle. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Milan Knezevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39747	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to use a little time from the MP's group, I just didn't sign up for a replica. I can only say, really, that one debate that went well, in the end, I don't know for what reasons, one MP turned into political waters. We as SNS, and during the defence of amendments and MPs from other parliamentary groups, have clearly discussed the lack of laws. A comment on the SNS account, which can be illustrated from the record, that we want voters from both sides, and we are for Srebrenica and we are not, so we are also in a concrete law, both for smokers and non-smokers. I've just caught it from context, but I think I've got a good quote from my colleagues. We said in the beginning that this is a law that should not have political colour. This is a law concerning two endangered populations, endangered non-smoking smokers and us smokers in another way. We have said well and all colleagues of previous speakers have focused on commenting on the lack of law, in order to fix it, to be a balanced law, and absolutely there were no, appropriate, any political qualifications. One here, for their own reasons, claimed that this was a liberal law, the other, and that's what we are, we believe that at this point it's very rigid and rigorous, trying to illustrate it by example in the members of the law. We talked about tobacco damage at the beginning and talked about it in principle, it's illusory, and we all know why we were here this afternoon in the debate and in one, a tenth of the discussion quoted things that were clear to all of us. We as smokers are aware of the harmfulness and we want our children not to smoke. We want prevention to act to reduce smoking. Don't look black and white. My colleague, apparently, was looking at black and white. In life and in this law, it's not all black and white and it can't be accepted. Of course, on the one hand, we put the non-smoking first. We want to protect them and we want this law to be passed. On the other hand, I repeat the third time, just because of that comment, that smokers should also in their own way... But why, now, do these comments, respect for human rights, or how do you want to baptize those rights of smokers and non-smokers into political waters? You're on your way now, towards the end, in that direction. Of course, as a result, there is also a reaction, because it is inappropriate and unnecessary to bring this law into question in this way in which you, a colleague, have discussed. It's absolutely unnecessary. I don't see why, because we have the right to say it's funny to define that the room should have doors and windows. It's really unnecessary. I can illustrate to you how many more of these things are in the law, which we consider right. You're explaining that they're not. Let it end in that, and not in this way to bring discussion into a position like this—who is courting the voters. We want, by law, you too, in a proper legal manner and non-smoking rights to be protected and the rights of smokers. That's the point. We all know about all these harmful divisions and effects and the destruction of smoking. And I'm a smoker, and I'm aware of that. When I teach, as a professor, I also say you shouldn't smoke. I teach in non-smoking rooms, since I'm a pathologist, I watch both biopsys and everything, and I say it all seems harmful. So our obligation is this, but it's not that we want both sides to satisfy for political reasons, but for objective and other reasons, not to repeat the story anymore. And I had to react, eventually drop the ball, and take what we've been putting out in the amendments, which is obviously not respected by the government, as such and over. It's objectively up to us from the opposition to seek the weaknesses of the law, and that should always be considered useful, where it is possible to fix. Although I must admit that here, it doesn't matter whether the amendment of the DSS, the SRS, the SNS, was really technical parts that indicated where the law could be fixed, if not, essentially, because it is clear that this is the transitional period until 2012, when smoking will be banned in all public places. It's clear to us smokers, but at this point there are a lot of technical deficiencies, ridiculous and absurd definitions that you should have respected. (President: I'm sorry, MP, for five minutes and 50 seconds I've misjudged that you've finished. [[off microphone]] Please sign in. You have time at your disposal. Here you go. In the end, the amendment relating to Article 22, we proposed that Article 22 be deleted. There was the same comment from MPs as to why we put amendments on previous members in the sense of erasure. Well, good. You know, in law, you have three bodies. You have, first of all, the Office for the Prevention of Smoking and the Commission for the Prevention of Tobacco Use. Okay, that's denied. But then, Article 22 says, which we propose to delete – a common body should be educated in accordance with the regulations. And this prevention committee, and certainly the prevention office, they're spending some money. They're spending money on a tobacco dinar. One dollar out of every pack of cigarettes goes to finance. It is unnecessary that there is now another common body that, again, spends in its own way, in this crisis, some budgetary resources. If you felt that the Commission and the Office could do the job, along with many professional and non-governmental organisations, which are also actively fighting smoking, this is unnecessary, especially since in principle we said that if we go according to that logic, and in Article 21, all the ministries covered by this, there are absolutely no areas in ordinary life, in all the areas for which we pass laws, where there should be no common bodies. In that case, there would be so many common bodies, because not only tobacco, and health care and medicine, which we're going to talk about, and finance, these are so many multidisciplinary things that intertwine in the jurisdiction of different ministries, and it's certain that some things need to form common bodies, in accordance with the regulations. Here with the profession, along with this commission and the office, I'm sure there's something else going on right now that's going to lead to higher budget costs, which can otherwise be used... So we suggested that this Article 22 be deleted. I end up with a finding, so I must conclude, since we are at the end of the debate, that, however, it was necessary for the government to accept in this situation, regardless of what some MPs say is liberal, to fix it and make it much more balanced. A much greater effect would be a much more useful effect, but no amendment has been adopted, so the law will go in this original form as you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39748	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds and those three minutes before I interrupted you, once again, I apologize, so seven minutes have been used since the MP's group. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39749	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to make a commitment, since the MP was kind of directly speaking to me. I would have to agree with the greatest part of the discussion of a respected colleague, first of all, in his insistence that this is not a political debate, or that this is not a law that creates the possibility of political competition between political parties, as it is a law which, in some way, affects the entire population in both political options, or in a third or other political party. There are also those who are advocates of more rigorous measures of the law, which will result in an absolute ban on smoking and those that are for something more liberal. Especially in the debate in principle, it helped your discussion, for those who remember, because you're a pathologist by profession and you said that you meet daily in your practice with the consequences of smoking, the effects of tobacco smoke. In that sense, there is no disagreement. I'll leave the rest of the story on the amendment separately. I couldn't help but react to the discussion of your colleague who today said that he represented his personal position after the previous debate, not his position as SNS. Maybe it was like that today. I couldn't help but react when he said this was a discriminatory law and thus tried to win smokers and, in a way, said that such a law was not necessary, and then, through the discussion, he said that smokers should be protected as well. On the other hand, in addition to saying that the law is discriminatory, he said it was brought by the morons, so there could be two findings left without a reaction, so I agree that this debate should be conducted under the proposed norms, that it should not be extended to other political issues, but I could not not react to such a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39750	The People's MP Vuk Dincic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39751	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree that perhaps, and that is my opinion, that by amendment you should correct some law, that some member's position also needs to be corrected by an amendment. I cannot agree with the conclusion that the government here should have accepted amendments or most amendments, because 90, maybe 100% of the amendments proposed by the opposition, refer to a member being deleted. It wasn't the opposition's intention to fix something here, that's my opinion, that it might make it more quality and better for that commission to work, that some health care facility might help solve this problem better, but all the amendments have already been submitted so that some particular member is deleted. If the government had accepted all the amendments, we wouldn't have this law on the agenda. I just want to say one thing to Dr. Knezevic, which is my personal opinion – I absolutely agree with you 90% of what you said, I don't have any dilemma, but it's very bad if someone who is a doctor, especially a pathologist, doesn't stop smoking, or promotes smoking in any way. I'm not saying it's what you do, I mean doctors at all, it's a very bad example. I think it's a very bad example. I'm a non-smoker, but in my opinion, it's the same thing as a cop who's supposed to stop some crimes, go and commit crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39752	A minute and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milan Knezevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39753	I laughed. For example, what my junior colleague said, I'm a lot older and it's possible, it's a really bad example, I admit, and as a man. But let me not be able to change my habits to promote that young people should not smoke and that this is one harmful effect on the organism. But now, what I can do is, democracy is being looked at and it has to be respected. I accept your objection about that. I don't accept that part of the remark that all these amendments, my colleague, were just erasing. It is in these last four, five amendments either – it is deleted, yes. But that's the last five or six. Not to illustrate, well, here, it's useful to start with other parliamentary groups, this is really a practical thing, not a "square" but a "cubature," which Professor said. Shami. Well, then, here's the unfortunate definition of 'room', which is a room in an institution that is a catering facility and a health institution, which is defined by technical documentation. It really seems funny when we put a definition of what a room is. There, I cited those two things as examples. I can do a few more. So it's not just erasing. Personally, at this point, I've thought of two things that don't really disturb the law, if you will, what's wrong with your law, but really, in the law it sounds so raving and a little funny. So, not only were the opposition's amendments -- they were deleted, but they were also amendments from which, behold, I remembered the two, which are really logical, which are generally appropriate and which should have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39754	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39755	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to use one sentence on the line on Mr. Dincic's discussion. He directly called all the opposition parties and told one lie. I quote - 90% of the amendments proposed by the opposition "is deleted". Here are the proposed amendments with the government's opinion. Among them are 25 amendments submitted by the SRS and only two amendments are "expunged". That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39756	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39757	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have to tell the young gentleman that the more careful percentage bills in the future. Of the 22 amendments proposed by the DSS, only three read "is deleted", and 19 voted as they voted. First I'll say something, and then you deny it, it's bad manners, young sir. As for Article 23, I am pleased to have Mr. Novakovic back, as he is professionally, if I am not mistaken, a lawyer, that defines what is the exercise of inspection supervision and what the inspector is authorized to do, so, among other things, it is said to impose a fine, which is charged on the spot in accordance with the law. We asked for this "on the spot" to be erased. It can only be said to impose a fine, which is charged in accordance with the law. Even when you commit more serious violations, traffic, disturbances of public order and peace, etc. And it's going to be fined, first of all there's an alternative and there's some protocol that can be charged. One of the fines is a million dinars for an authorized face. Does an authorized face need to be held on the spot in the pocket of a million dinars? You don't have to, I guess. He shouldn't hold as much as 5,000 for the one who smoked where it was banned. Therefore, again in the desire to save the face of the leg of the bill promoter, not to write nonsense here in law, I ask you to adopt this and correct it. He can't "on the spot." The last position should be deleted, because the minister here edits the form of how fines are charged. Is this supposed to be done by the Minister of Health? However, what the Minister of Health should do, I'll talk about it later when I give the final speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39758	45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39759	Article 23 refers to the supervision carried out over this law. In carrying out inspection under Article 21 of this Act, the inspector is authorised, so he has four points in the first position, and we have submitted an amendment to item 1 point 4) which says the words "without delay" are replaced by the words "in three days". I'll read point 4 that says, ''that against the person who violated the smoking ban and against the responsible person, as well as against the legal person and entrepreneurs, without delay, are applying for a misdemeanor procedure with the competent authority. ''The amendment shall specify precisely the time limit for the initiation of the infringement procedure with the competent authority. I'm going to support this by example, given by our esteemed colleague, Dr. Pai Momchilov. First of all, it's not clear what it means that the time-limited term is "no delay". If someone violated the smoking ban, for example, during the weekend or during the holidays, a misdemeanor procedure cannot be initiated before Monday. It will be at least three days, as much as we have proposed with our amendment, so I believe that the explanation you have given for the refusal of amendments, that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the deadline – without delay, justified and rational, does not stand, because it is neither justified nor rational if a failure of smoking ban occurs in a period where it is impossible to submit to anyone here is not clear, neither to us nor to us, which means how limited the term ''no delay' is. Well, here, the minister could explain, because this term is also used in some other laws, which means how long the time limit is "no delays". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39760	Thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 23 by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39761	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer answer, until the end, therefore, of these amendments that we have submitted. First, just a few words about the amendment itself. This and the following amendments refer to criminal provisions, where we suggest that those penalties be reduced. We find it entirely inappropriate for one who breaks the law and gets caught smoking the salaries of 5,000 dinars, and even less appropriate for a responsible person to pay a fine of 500. A thousand to a million dinars. I'm not going to say, "Come on, now, let me be a little underprivileged, if, say, the person in charge of us, the Secretary of Parliament, and I want to make a mistake about the secretary, then I'm going to call the inspection first, light a cigarette, pay a fine of 5,000, and Mr. Secretary of a million dinars, and so on five times. I have to caricate a little bit, see that it's not very appropriate, and those who know, and lawyers will know what the penalties are in some other areas, for example. to disrupt public order and peace, some traffic offences, etc. I'm under the impression that they're meant to be punished by this law more than high. That's why we asked them to shrink. But neither far more important amendments than these proposings nor has he accepted, nor is he intending to accept, so it's not worth a lot of time to convince you of that. Allow me at the end of a few final notes. And, besides some of them trying to prove that this is about us wanting to continue to harass non-smokers, etc., we who smoke, of course, is not about that at all. I must, regretfully, realize that the opportunity for one, absolutely agree, to pass non-political law with 250 votes has been missed. I listened very carefully to all the parliamentary groups, all my colleagues from various parliamentary groups, no one has disputed that smoking is harmful, no one has slowed down the need for a good, balanced law, and more MPs have pointed out that the law must, on the one hand, defend and defend non-smoking human rights, that smokers do not pollute them with tobacco smoke. That they have to defend the human rights of smokers, that they have some space where they can smoke, and they won't endanger others. Then, in the end, to defend the rights of all interested persons, owners and catering facilities and various areas for organising cultural, sports and similar events, to have as their guests, smokers and non-smokers and, therefore, to develop their jobs uninterruptedly. Unfortunately, the proposed law is not good because it did not answer that basic question. In addition to introducing parameters that shouldn't be introduced, which I was trying to explain to you, but it seems in vain, besides using things that don't need to be used, which tells us whether the room has a ceiling, like there's a room without a ceiling, which tells me there can't be a door between a smoking space and a non-smoking space, like we can teleport without a door to a non-smoking area, etc. And so, all in all, one whole series, and personally I think, of the other colleagues, useful amendments has been rejected, it just proves, unfortunately, one of my impressions that I made in the debate in principle, which is that with some great passion has gone into the fight against smoking and smokers. I'm under the impression there's been a crusade. You know, crusades don't end too famously. No matter what the last time, Mr. Minister announced to us, among other things, that he does not see why he would not be a minister for a very long time, I personally think he will not be a minister for long, and those who wrote this law, his co-workers at the ministry, will not be long co-workers of the ministry. I think one of the next governments will pass a good law on controlling and protecting the population from tobacco smoke, which will contain an excessive solution, which will be applicable and that will be fully balanced and defend the interests of all. In the end, I have two messages for Mr. Minister of Health. First and foremost, I want him to get better as soon as possible. Secondly, I would be much happier if with half the passion that promotes and pushes this law took care of some other problems. I'll just list some: how to promote the fight against drug abuse in primary schools, and not talk about high schools, how to avoid it, I think, second place in Europe for infant mortality. Third, how to avoid the daily scandals that happen in health care, I don't want to pick them up. If all of this were to be taken into account a little bit more and it was with a little more passion, instead of that passion exhausting on laws like this, personally, I must admit, I'd be a lot happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39762	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Krpic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (No) That concludes the search of the bill in particular. After we have finished, do the proposing representatives want a final word, based on Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. Thank you. In that case, I conclude a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are going to the 7th point of the agenda: – I would like to remind the MPs of the time remaining for authorised representatives of parliamentary groups and MPs: The PUPS Group has all the time available, as well as the Parliamentary Group of minorities who has – all the time available, the MP group – 12 minutes and 50 seconds for the authorised representative and five minutes from the MP group, the MP group LDP – all the time, the SPS, too – and the time of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative, the MP group Advanced Serbia has – five minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, and from the time of the authorised representative five minutes and 30 seconds, the DSS Group has used the time and the mandated group has a mandated group of 15 minutes. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – a bill on medicines and medical means. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dusan Marić, Sladjan Mijaljević, Milan Knezevic, Mileta Poscurica, Paja Momčiov, Zoran Mašić, Gordana Paunović-Lasavljevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Boris Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dušanka Plečević, Draga Damnjanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Zlata Djerić, Predrag Mijatović, Nikola Žutić, Milorad Krstin, Dragan Stevanović, Simo Vuković, Dejan Mirović, Sreto Perić, Vladan Jeremic and Sheriff Hamzagić and the amendment Committee for Health and Family. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39763	Article 1 on which I have submitted the amendment reads: "This law regulates the conditions and procedure of issuing a marketing authorisation, i.e. the registration of medicines in the registers run by the Medicines Agency' and so on. I have submitted an amendment suggesting that this wording "medicine entry" be replaced by the wording "medicine entry". The Ministry has rejected this amendment and I won't read the explanation, because it's pointless. It's about replacing thesis. I'm just pointing to the fact that the drug register is always prescribed as a cure and never as a cure. Aspirins are not entered, aspirin is entered, diclofenase is not entered, diclofenase is entered, etc. I will take this opportunity to publicly ask the Ministry of Health – when will they approve that in the Home of Health in the Great Plan additional three doctors are employed, which are necessary for this health care institution to be able to carry out its job in a legitimate and valid manner? Namely, due to the lack of a doctor, the number of patients per doctor in a health care facility in the Great Plana is up to 50% higher than in neighboring municipalities. We have days when doctors in this medical facility are going to examine between 50 and 60 patients, so it could rightly be said that they look at the patient sooner than they look at the patient. I also draw attention to another inadmissible fact that at health stations in Lozovic and Milosevic, inhabited towns with eight and a half thousand inhabitants, of which a thousand and a half children, no pediatrician works. This is inadmissible, especially given the fact that Milosevic is the largest collective centre for abandoned children in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39764	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39765	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1) that the words "if not otherwise specified" are deleted. So the whole first position is, "The terms used in this law, if not otherwise specified, have the following meaning." We can't really believe that someone like this can put an undefined definition into the law, especially if it is seen that there are 76 points in Article 2 that are printed or occupied, even nine sides of certain definitions and meanings, and that they couldn't find one or one that will appear in the future, so they won't be defined by this law, but someone else will determine. Now the question is, who is this other person who can determine certain expressions at the level of one law? The assembly makes laws, the government can pass regulations, but that someone undefined brings these terms is truly amazing. It's one thing to define terms, and another to define actions and actions. So one is the store, the other is the definition. We think that this first attitude would look better, because the terms used in this law are numbered in 76 points, and at each point there are certain terms that are defined, it's better that when a new term appears that isn't defined in the best, happiest or most professional way, then we make a new amendment to the law, so let's redefine it, to put that expression into the law and end the problem, i.e. We saved him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39766	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39767	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the SNS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Article 2 gives all the terms used in the law, definitions and all the terms that explain the relevant terms, the appropriate procedures. We felt that our amendment was to add point 20 after point 19), and point 20 also refers to what the definition of clinical trial is. We gave the text here, not to read, the intensity was if in the same article mentioned, or in the law, the sponsor of the clinical trial, it was explained what it was, and then the post-marketing intervention clinical trial, and then the post-marketing non-intervention clinical trial, and so it was mentioned a multicentre clinical trial. So we have several definitions of various types of clinical trials, and there's no basic definition of clinical trials at all, so we thought that's where it should be inserted, and that's why we gave the definition. In response to the government's response to the amendment, they say Article 59(1) provides a definition of a clinical trial, which they say is better. Okay, well, we can always discuss definitions that are better, which is a worse definition, I'm not going to go into it, but the intensity of the amendment was that this definition, given that these definitions define the concepts here, should be found there. If they consider that their definition of clinical trial is better, they should accept that definition to be transferred to Article 2 because it is an appropriate place. Why? The same article in 59 says – the purpose of the clinical trial and then, it is true, gives the definition, and then talks about the goal. This is just one technical amendment that puts this definition among those concepts where these concepts are defined. And, after the definition of a clinical study, these concepts of post-marketing, a multicentre, are clear, so this is one logical and quality amendment. Therefore, the definition of "clinical interrogation" should be transferred to Article 2 where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39768	A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39769	We wanted to, in front of the SNS, supplement this nomenclature with a very important term, and the term "observer" or "monitor," as it is officially called in clinical studies. We wanted to because this law is the starting law for the establishment of sublegal acts, as is the Regulation on the conduct of clinical studies, which are carried out in our health institutions. Under that rule, we are being checked, the main researchers, and the participants in the project, the inspectors of the Ministry of Health, therefore, the persons mentioned and who are in charge of this law. It was quite logical that the definition of a monitor should be introduced into the law, because such a definition would have to be found in the current rule, so it is logical to find the starting place in the law. It doesn't make sense what the government has said to us as a reason for not accepting it. It's completely confusing. They better have responded with a shorter sentence not to accept, but rather to something in the Directive in 2001 because the observer, the monitor, they say, is someone who is a bond between someone who has gone from sponsor to investment to the drug being examined and who will be connected to the main research team. This man must have certain qualifications, because with us mainly Type 3, Type 4 clinical studies, rare type 2, in which someone who is not a doctor, who is not a veterinarian, dentist, clinical pharmacologist, is hardly able to understand what unwanted events are, what are serious side effects, to help in clinical research and to indicate the right information or to prevent one of the main researchers or research teams from manipulating facts. And these facts are so important that they will decide whether to be or not to be registered. We today have a so-called "CRO" on the market of SEROVA (CRO). and linguists and biologists and some very skilled people who realized that the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines must learn even if they are not medical workers. We want to say – give health care professionals, pharmacologists who will understand the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, because they conduct research. If he understands them, it will be easier for the inspector to communicate with them, easier for him to communicate with the research team. It is precisely the mediator who can be in front of a contractual research organisation or in front of the sponsor himself that depends on who went into the project, by no means bothered to define his education, his expertise, that the Agency has him in the register, that he is a citizen of Serbia. Some countries in the environment have been protected by this, for example, be one of the citizens of Croatia, who will be our monitor to conduct a certain study. We can receive citizens of Bulgaria, citizens of Russia, Germany, etc., or various states. The question is, is it easier for the Agency, which, for example, could introduce a certain test to register them, test their knowledge, and that after inspectors have much less problems when they come into control of a clinical study? I just don't know why this bothered to be accepted as an amendment. Maybe one of the current monitors, I remind you, is out of a job, but the law doesn't have to be applied retroactively, of course, should future registered persons have certain qualifications and it certainly shouldn't hurt. It would be of use only, it would lead to more order in practice or someone on purpose, because of something, it didn't fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39770	A minute and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Do any of the other authorised representatives or members of the parliamentary group want a word? (Yes) (People's MP Mileta Poscurica, from the post: from the authorised representative. ) From an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39771	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's begin with the quote. With careful insight into the stenogram, our minister said, about this law. ''The drug law is so important, at the same time systemically and very highly sophisticated and professionally defined, that probably none of us know enough to talk about it in a documented manner, and unless there's a professional attitude of the pharmaceutical profession. '"Why did I read this? There is no Mr. Bradic now. We have Mrs. Kalanovic for a law like this. I read because the attitudes you'll hear, which I express on behalf of the SRS, are exactly what I'm saying. You see, when this law was passed and debated, it was said that the profession took part. However, we were already able to conclude on the Committee that it was a pharmaceutical chamber, which was a professional pharmaceutical association, participated in the good work of making this law, but it also had its own objections, which it was on the Committee itself, namely Mrs. Zuvela, the director of the chamber, on the Gallenic preparations, that I am not bothering you now. On the other hand, we had representatives of the civil sector, the Pharmaceutical Forum of NGOs, and there we had from a representative of the NGO forum made clear views of disagreements with this law, and it was said, in short, that this law maintains the market for smuggled medicines, endangers the safe effective treatment of citizens because of the presence of both smuggled and unaccounted-for drugs, and supports the irrational spending of medicines on the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, which has financed and discovered fake drugs'serum' and which on the positive list has medicines that do not comply with the law. A whole series of other complaints from the pharmacist was delivered. I am reading a circulatory letter addressed to the table of addresses of the institutions and all MPs to the members of the Health Committee, the civil, non-governmental sector. You can often see the signature of Mrs. Vukosavu Stevanović, the MA, in the daily press "Today", "B 92", you know that. We MPs of the SRS, to remind you, said we couldn't vote for this bill. First of all, I read the reasoning of the law, he says, the reasons for adoption are – compliance with the directives and other EU regulations in the field of medicines and medical means; and then he collects them and many of these directives are embedded, represent the tissue of the law. That's not necessary. That's when the law got too big, too big. The directives are changing. These are technical instructions that are carried out through a sublegal act. Second – bringing into line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation; third – creating conditions for domestic drug manufacturers and medical means for the placement of their products in EU countries and other countries of the world. Nor is it said that the aim of Serbia's citizens is to get quality, safe, cheap, available medications. In response (I did not move on to Article 3, I will go on and on to it) you state Croatia. In its drug law, which looks like such a thing, Croatia says – it checks the quality of the medicine, and then says that for the purpose of placing the finished drug on the market in paragraph 4. each medicine must be determined the quality, effectiveness and safety of application. There is no such thing, neither in your wishes nor in your legal provisions. The whole world does something like this when it comes to laws like this. I don't want to scare you about why it's unusually important to pass this law with these goals – that we have safe, quality, cheap medicines. That's what we talked about in principle. I'd move on to the amendment itself. What did we want in the amendment to Article 3? We wanted to give the Agency the powers that all the agencies in the world have. You have referred to Croatia, Sweden, Iceland, Italy and you say that these are examples that have regulated the area of medicines in the way you regulate. That's not true. To read to you first Croatian, they are our closest. They say, in article 120, they list what all agencies should do, give production permits to drug manufacturers and homeopathic products. That's exactly what we're asking our agency to give a production license, to confirm the implementation of Good Manufacturing Practice. This is what we ask our agency to give, and you state the example of Croatia when you deny us the right to do so by our agency. Not to read any further, gives a license to traffic on a lot of drugs and homeopathic products, a marketing license on a little bit. It's something that looks like European law and agency jurisdiction, like our agency should. What did you do? You've kept some of your jurisdiction at the Ministry, you've given some to the Agency and you're telling us that according to the Constitution and the law, it's not possible for the Agency to get the authority and that there are also these powers that I've been talking about, and that there are, which is very important, jurisdiction in the surveillance inspection. And then you refer to the Constitution, incorrectly, and one provision of the Administration Act. I'm asking you, the citizens of Serbia know about the Flight Control Agency, you know it exists – is there an inspection of the Flight Control Agency? That is what we expect in response, and Mrs Kalanovic can answer us, not a purely medical question. If you take the Privatisation Agency, I have a document on the Privatisation Agency, it conducts privatisation and controls over a series of its bodies and members, the Agency, which we are legally required to respect, therefore, can control. Well, then, you go into absurdity, even if we look at the Agency itself in the current law, you've given control of the clinical trial. Look, it's a very sensitive thing, but when it comes to drug trafficking, when it comes to money, well, it can't. And it can't be a little bit, you've regulated it by law, that pharmacy is a health care institution, and then it can't be regulated by this law, and it's supposed to be this law. To stay with the profession, a Twinning project has been done by our agency and France for medicines, and what is said here is the problem in Serbia? – The period of sanctions has led many people, professionals or others to introduce quasi-free trafficking of foreign medicines and medical resources, which are sold by pharmacies. Currently, many unregistered medicines and medical resources are on the market, sometimes false. Namely, at this point, any drug can be sold without doctor's prescribing. This situation is dangerous for the health of the population and is beneficial for abuse. It is also incompatible with EU accession, in which each country is responsible for its distribution network of medicines. It is also the weakest point in regulating medicine and medical resources in Serbia. Then he makes it clear to you that strengthening the human resources of the inspection is a top priority. What did you do after the Twinning project that spent a million and a half euros? 600 hours of quality discussions with French experts have been spent. You, in this document, said you were recommended to have 215 executives in that agency to do quality work, you fired 70 people, and now you have 150 people at the Agency. As control and inspection has been regulated so far, beyond Europe, beyond the world, only in Croatia has it remained in the inspection ministry, that is correct, but there have been large powers given to the agency, and how large. You've done something that doesn't exist in Europe, which doesn't exist in developed countries of the world, and now you're breaking into god-awful laws. If a man reads the legal norms carefully, that's what we've explained, I won't even read the Law on Public Agencys, you can see that, practically, there's no obstacle. It is evident that there are agencies in the country that exercise control and inspection supervision, and why you do not, it is clear that everything you have passed by this law only goes to the benefit of the World Trade Organisation and the profits of pharmaceutical firms. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39772	Eight minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39773	We have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) and we propose that point 4 be amended. I'll read how this point 4 reads in the law, relates to the agency's affairs and to the tasks for which the agency is responsible. It says, among other things, that the Agency is competent to, ''issue authorisations to conduct a clinical study of the medicinal product and medical medicinal product, decide to amend and supplement the authorisation, or protocol on the conduct of a clinical study of medicinal products, make decisions regarding the application of a clinical trial, conducts a clinical study. ''Our amendment said all of this, as proposed by the Bill here, which I have read, with what we suggest to be a decimal after this and to add, ''issues licenses (licences) for the observers of the clinical trial and runs the relevant Registry. ''We want to add in this one that it is the responsibility and obligation of the agency to run the registry of natural persons who will perform in clinical trials in front of the promoters and sponsors. And also, in an appropriate way, those observers need to undergo some training, to acquire appropriate knowledge in this training, to know the legal regulations relating to clinical trials, both domestic and international legal regulations, and therefore to be licensed. Besides, in medicine itself, pharmacies and professional organisations there are licenses. We think the observer should also have some qualifications in this sense in which I said so. The amendment was rejected with reasons, although this amendment is also related to the previous amendment where we give the definition of monitors, monitors, as my colleague Poscurica has stated, that – in the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, the definition of monitors and its task, i.e. it is a matter of sponsorship of a clinical trial which conducts control. However, we believe that it is the Agency's responsibility to have a register of such persons that should be licensed and therefore we believe that this amendment should be accepted because it significantly improves this part, in terms of quality monitoring of clinical trials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39774	Since the time of the parliamentary group, the time used is one minute. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39775	To come from Article 4, you see he is short: ''If this law is not different, the work of the Agency is subject to the law governing public agencies. "We are against it, against this false attitude, not the European attitude, not the world attitude. You have instructed examples in the previous article, that the situation in Sweden is different, I read to you the preamble of the World Agency Medical Products Energy ("Medical Product Energes") says – the government body is not a public agency, please, the Swedish agency, I hold here and the structure, there is an inspectorate within the Agency. Why do you cite incorrect information when you say and call it that it's done in Sweden as well? It's completely different. What do we think? In fact, we feel that it is not necessary to fully deregulate the area of drug control, but should be an agency within the State Administration, only not to be called public and we have solved the problem. Why? If we look at and carefully study the Agency Act, which you are also calling upon, one of the introductory members says 'for occasional jobs and temporary' are appropriate. Well, how can drug quality control be something occasional, temporary? It has to be constant and continuous, not to mention both hemovigilans and other problems that are mentioned in the law, experts understand that better. In fact, we ask that the Agency be one European agency, with competences and with a profile, as it exists in all other agencies. And it's too important a problem for the country of Serbia. We've got fake drugs that reveal themselves every day, and they're not revealed by inspections. Why? You only have 15 inspectors at the Ministry, and you fired 70 people from the Agency, instead of having 215, you now have 150 people. How do you think the medication is being controlled? To read to you what the conclusions of the lady from the pharmaceutical core – that the law was made exclusively in the interest of the profits of the foreign company and some domestic ones, you have her memo, you could read it yourself. You didn't respond to her discussion on the board. Okay, maybe now we'll hear some answer, qualified, right, but we need to get those answers. You're talking about harmonising laws with European laws and principles. Please make an agency like it is in England and in other countries of Europe. It's the only thing that has been removed in Croatians, but the agency's jurisdiction is not denied in the way you're legally denying it here. You're reading the paper, the last one to show up is "Cialis." Look out, "Liley's Medicine", "Lylie" is a respected British company, and the cure is a fake. And there were no arrests, no reports from others, as well as that tetanus toxin revealed no inspection that the water was instead of the serum, but was discovered by a nurse who had experience. It doesn't work at all. The inspection says there are few of us, there are 2,500 pharmacies in Belgrade, we can't go all the way around. It's a cruel reality, and you really need to give us some explanations about how you're going to Europe like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39776	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39777	Article 5 defines the position of the Agency and the amendments which we have submitted as follows: ‘Article 5 is deleted in Article 2’. Item 2 is identical to Article 4. I will read both Article 4 and Article 2. He says in Article 4: "If this law is not different, the work of the Agency shall be subject to the law governing public agencies". Paragraph 2 of Article 5 states: "A law governing the work of public agencies is applied to the position of the Agency, if this law is not otherwise regulated." That is why we believe that this amendment is acceptable and that the second position of Article 5 should be deleted. The essence of the bill is the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and its jurisdiction. In many countries of Europe and the world, this agency is an authority of the state, not a public agency. Public agencies are established if development, professional and regulatory affairs do not require continued and direct efforts and if the public agency can do them better and more effectively. Every serious state has regulatory bodies, like professional bodies, and is controlled by the state. In these countries, there is a division of responsibilities by granting the Agency a marketing authorisation and for the clinical examination of medicinal products, while the Ministry of Health is responsible for inspection, drug production, the issue of a large-scale marketing authorisation. However, under the applicable law, the clinical trial does not involve inspections, but controls. All serious inspections are with agencies, as they are made by professionals. On the other hand, employees of the Ministry of Health should adopt political guidelines for the development of health, regulation and control of the legality of work. For all things, the SRS Group advocates that the Agency be an authority of the administration, since there is no professional capacity within the Ministry for the quality of the operation of this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39778	From the time of the parliamentary group, 25 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is from the apostle of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39779	We don't get answers – why don't you give the Agency the competencies that all agencies in Europe and the biggest agencies in the world have. We do not get an answer – why are you misreading the position of the SRS, which requires the Agency to be moved to the 'Government', so it is not to be a public agency, because when you let the public agency on the free market to self-finance, you have denied it and the possibility to be objective to the end because from whom does it receive income? Right from the drug manufacturer and the distributor. So you have to answer that. We're looking for it as an imperative response. Please respond. Why did you provide incorrect information for the Swedish agency? Why did you provide incorrect information for the Croatian agency? Why do you provide incorrect information for the Italian agency? The Italian also has inspection controls. So we're asking you to give the Agency the jurisdiction it needs. In this article, you say, "Be careful what happens now, we'll have advisory bodies." The agency is a professional body, top-notch, there are about 200 people, it should have 215, pharmaceuticals, the most professional people, and now they need advisors. We don't mind. Now he has to appoint a minister to them advisors. We're just asking that they themselves, that agency, the most professional people, propose to the minister of personnel who should be advisors. Why is that bad? Why doesn't that work? That's what you have to explain to us now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39780	A minute and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 14. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39781	Article 14(1) reads: "A medicine is a product that is placed on the market in a particular strength, pharmaceutical form and packaging, which contains a substance or combination of substances that has proved to have the properties to treat or prevent diseases in humans, or animals. "I was distracted by this term that turned out to be." What does that mean? Who needs to determine where it turned out and how it turned out? I suggested that instead of this term "shown" the use of the following formula: "For which pharmaceutical, pharmacological and clinical studies, which have been carried out in accordance with this law, have been found to have properties used in the treatment of humans and animals. "The government has rejected this amendment, with an explanation –''''Amendman is not accepted for a reason,''' please, 'which indicates that the drug's properties are determined on the basis of the results of precise, clearly prescribed laboratory pharmacology and clinical trials. ''I am really asking a question, both for you and for the citizens of Serbia, in what other way is the product determined, but for these very tests? That I'm right, it also shows a member of the 25th bill, pages 1 and 2. In order for the drug to be authorised, it must be pharmaceutical (pharmaceutical-chemical-biological), pharmacological-toxicological and clinical studies. The medicinal product can be pharmaceutically pharmacologically toxicologically and clinically tested and given that it has been authorised, etc. What's the point? I propose, in Article 14, the same solution that the Government used in Article 25. Then I don't understand why the government doesn't accept its practical reasoning and its formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39782	Anyone else want a word? (No) The Committee on Health and Family is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 27. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39783	The amendment of the Committee on Health and Family to Article 27 shall be adopted on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39784	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger of Pai Boys has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39785	This law, that is correct, allows for faster entry of medicines from the EU and does not require control of every batch of imported drugs. Now that's what the law requires. Just to remind some of those who sat in these parliamentary benches when we passed this law in 2004, then there was a big debate and after a big debate, a clause was accepted that every series of imported drugs had to be controlled. What are you doing with these now? You do two things that are bad. You allow foreign medicines from the EU to come here without control, and you will control ours domestically, every batch imported. So let me remind you, here's this example, the "Cialis" drug, which can be bought, which is also a special problem, without a prescription, you can get it, just pay it, which you can't pay anywhere in the world, in developed countries I mean just, you have, you know, a fake cure. To remind you of the great affair in sanctions, when we received a vaccine from UNICEF, which was toxic, it was withdrawn. The English Medicines Agency says that on its market estimates that there are 10% fake drugs on its market, and the World Health Organization says - underdeveloped countries, maybe we're developed, let's not go into that basket, there's 30% fake drugs. So, now you're ending, aside from discriminating leading drug and drug manufacturers, China, Japan, America, and then in response you're giving us a Solomonian solution -- they can ask the European Agency for permission, and then we'll accept it. No, the only reason why you're doing this is for foreign producers to get to our market as fast as they can, by a shortened procedure of 150 days, you'll see more with some other provisions, so that profits can only increase and increase. There is no concern for the citizens of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39786	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39787	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have provided in Article 31 for a new position to be added to the provisions of this law for drug manufacturers based in the Republic of Serbia from the date of Serbia's entry into the EU. So, you have answered us that the amendment is not accepted, referring to Article 230 on item 1 which is not disputed. But, Madam Minister, I am reading a full member of this bill, and I wonder – and what about the second position of this member, and the second position of this member is this, please listen carefully to me: 'Until the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union of medicines based in the Republic of Serbia which is the holder of the drug authorisation may receive a medical certificate after the expiry of six years from the date of the first authorisation for the reference medicine, i.e. after the expiry of the period of ten years from the first authorisation for biotechnology medicine. '"What's the problem? The problem is what domestic pharmaceuticals say, about this article and about Article 31, 32, is that you're destroying domestic pharmaceuticals. That's what domestic pharmaceuticals say, you tie their hands. Now we're going back to the beginning of the story, those stories in principle, to the question I asked Mr. Secretary, which, unfortunately, is not here and I understand the justification. Where's the patient? Is that a cheap cure? Is that a safe cure? Is that a drug available? It's not gonna happen. So, you've applied a regulation that completely dissuasives domestic pharmaceuticals, puts one whose medicine is intended for a tragic position. That's the purpose of your law. Madam Minister, you are defending this law. I'll wait for you to finish your conversation. ) Can you explain to us what a medicine is and what a medical medicine is? Do you know the difference between these two things, so we can even discuss this law? You don't know, do you? Then how can we talk, how can we explain this law? What do you have to answer us for these examples that we're putting on this bill? Do you have any answer to this? You favor this way import lobby, someone you want to put money in their pocket, and whose money? Tax taxpayers' money collected for contribution. That's what this law is all about. Say something if you have. In the principle debate, I asked the minister a series of questions. I have not received any answers, to the remarks of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, the pharmaceutical core, as the price of the medicine paid to the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Office is determined. The only thing the minister found appropriate to answer is that, of course, some, and that is true, have performed a function of public importance because they were city secretary, and they know how difficult it is to pass a law on patients' rights. The Health Protection Act contains 15 members who defend, for God's sake, a patient. Here's how you defend him, that's what the paper says - smuggled drugs, broken medications, no drugs, no medicine under the counter! It is a law that you propose and that you expect to adopt, and responsibility is on the parliamentary majority, which is likely to vote in favour of this law, and when Serbia experiences fate in 1991, 1992, 1993, then you will wonder why you voted and why you voted for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39788	Two minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Representatives Zoran Masic, Mileta Poscurica and Milan Knezevic together submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39789	The Serbian Progressive Party wanted to change the deadlines needed by the agency in this law, with the fact that after winning or full insight into the documentation he wanted to attach to the medicinal product or the drug manufacturer in order to approve the release of the medicinal product to us for unclear reasons, it is proposed that it be 210 days. In response to the government, which has come to us, it has been said that this is because such are some international rules, a consolidated Directive of 2001/83, etc. and that it is specified how long the procedure can take to establish the maximum range in which the Agency in Europe is EMEA or in another country, an individual state agency is obliged to respond to the request whether or not the transport of the medicinal product can be authorised. We don't think it's necessary, if there's a maximum range, that it's being maintained and maintained, but that time can be shorter, especially when it comes to accelerated procedures, we'll see in the next amendment, then we don't get much on the scale of urgency of getting the cure and putting it on the market. Routine, regular procedure, if the agency has looked at the material for 30 days. The one who filed a missing persons claim can be completed in 30 days. And 210 days, seven months that it's cramped in some drawers, in our opinion, it can only be a corrupt mechanism, corruption, that someone, perhaps from a commission that will just be formed by some pharmaceutical experts or other people, however, intervenes in getting a medical license. It's an interesting market. It's an expensive market and it's not simply established to leave a range of 210 days, it could not be 60, 90, let's say that we agree on something, that there was a good will, so that this amendment is accepted as such and only the short deadlines for the agencies. The agency really has a lot of people, planning new receptions and new expert groups, new experts. It's not hard to cross the material. Many services, legal services and others, many institutions are closed with a higher amount of material and more up-to-date so they are able to respond to the demand much faster than it is routinely collected procedure. You know exactly what kind of paragraph is going on, it's all complicated, ATF, by files, it's easily and quickly checked and it's not necessary if he sees for the first month that the paperwork has been completed, that it's right, why it takes seven months to initial, to say fine, this drug can be imported. We've got a little bit of that left inconclusive. And the explanation that it's a European practice isn't exactly the end of the drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39790	45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) An MP named Milet Poscurica has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39791	Something about an accelerated procedure. I don't need to expand the story about it, we're really in a position to talk about a kind of medical emergency, the need to get to the drug as soon as possible, the approval to put on the market by the speedy procedure. It's a public interest, a health interest, a general social interest, so the question is why would it have to move that thing for 150 days? That's five months. If there's something urgent I mean the sense of urgency is lost if we don't cut the deadline, because there's always a chance that the Agency trusts the material; the material isn't good, here's a 30-day supplement. When the material is returned from the supplement for at least 30 days is enough to bring what is brought as a supplement, as a rule it is much less than the initial material, check, agree, agree and as such immediately to be placed. Because if there's something urgent, what if you give a negative answer, and then the procedure has to be checked for another 150 days, that's 300 days, and then it's an unwarranted emergency. Then, on the basis of that, we can ask what this is about, what is it that is just so urgent, and that it was rejected by the Agency because of incomplete documentation and waited for the 60th day to say – your request is now rejected. This procedure has to happen again. We think that probably no one from the EU would call us bad law if we updated a state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-21-0.u39792	Thank you. By searching the details of the amendment to Article 34, which we have just done, if no one wants a word anymore, for today, we end the work. The paper continues on Monday, 26 April 2010, at 10.00 p.m., with discussion in particular on amendments to Article 34 submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Mašić and Milan Knezevic.
