ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 145 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, which is why, according to Article 86(2), we can begin work. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35072	I ask the question of the Minister of Health, Prof. Tomica Milosavljevic - what has he done about the greatest abuses in the period from 1 January 2008 to 2 December 2009, by which 1.2 billion dinars have been spent in the province's Health Insurance and Branch Office? This has been notified by the minister in many different ways and in early December of last year he received documentation on it, but there are no actions. What is the outcome of the actions taken by Ms Svetlana Vukajlovic, as director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, who is also familiar with this, who knows which bearers of illegal and non-intentional spending? We know reliably that at the session, held on 11 December, which she made a statement in the media, she took some of the actions, but we don't know the results. I ask Mr Dacic, Minister of Police - what are the results of the police investigation in the same situation? Not to be familiar with what is happening at the Regional Health Insurance Institute, I inform him that, on his behalf and on his responsibility, he was handed over to his jurisdiction and received on 22 June 2009. I ask the question Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister – when will he finally send a budget inspection to control and determine the extent and extent of the abuses committed and the non-intentional spending of the Regional Health Insurance Institute? At the same time, I also ask Mr. Cimesh, my colleague from the DS, who came to the situation, which was found to be undeniable, arranged and brought into legal frameworks, and who was doing everything on it and what pressure to absolutely move nothing about it? I invite you, Mrs Đukić, that, as there are open days for visiting the Assembly, invite citizens to tour the seventh and eighth floors of the Novi Sad Health Insurance Institute building, that pregnant women, patients and everyone else see in which way and how dedicated, i.e. Unintended spending on funds from this fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35073	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35074	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of state institutions are currently expecting answers to a number of questions. All citizens worry about Serbia coming out of crisis. The citizens are concerned about whether the economic recovery has begun, if at what speed it is. Negotiations with the IMF are under way, the question is what will happen to pensions and how they will be coordinated in the coming years, the euro course is close to a hundred dinars and the question is where they will stop. The question is what is the model of balance and how will Serbia's economy and economy function? It seems to me to be the only question around which all government ministers have the same answer. They say infrastructure projects will start the economy and employ citizens of Serbia. According to a review of loans negotiated in half of November, only at the moment were negotiations for three loans, totaling 810m euros. On the other hand, there is no loan for the Zemun-Borca Bridge, not a loan for the Gazela Bridge, not loans for many other infrastructure projects. What is also a fact that only 40km of regional, state-of-the-art and other roads ended in 2009. For 2010, it was planned to be 300 to 400 kilometers. Also, it is planned to simultaneously make roads from Belgrade to Horgos, from Belgrade to Požega, from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, from Nis to the Macedonian border, from Pojat to Trstenik to Gazel, to finish the bridge of Beška, to work the bridge across Zemun. On the other hand, infrastructure minister Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic says the following thing: Serbia's Roads company did not have any road project engineers when it became a minister. It's one of the reasons why not one mile on Corridor 10, and it's not even projected. On the other hand, the Deputy Prime Minister says the World Bank approved the short tender procedure for loans to the Republic of Serbia, while domestic institutions in charge of preparing the tender documentation have done a disastrous job. According to him, Serbia has no expert in tunnel design. I have a question for Mr Cvetkovic's Prime Minister – is it possible that in Serbia, where construction was the most important export branch, there are no experts who can design bridges, roads and tunnels? On the other hand, is it true that for all these projects planned there is no project documentation, that only a small part of the project documentation was done? Is it true that no expropriation has been carried out, which is the basic condition for the implementation of these projects, so that we don't get what's going on around the bypass, around Gazela and on some other projects? If that is all true, I ask the Prime Minister to provide us with accurate information on how these projects should be implemented, so that we do not lose already approved loans from the World Bank and other financial institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35075	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question primarily of the MUP – how brutally will the human rights of the Darko Mladic family be trampled? Because, like, a dozen times now, the police are breaking into his house, searching with no results. Among other things, Darko Mladic has two underage children, and how long will there be people in phantoms with machine guns? It is obvious that this is the only way to possibly achieve some goals by harassing the Darko Mladic family. I would ask the Foreign Ministry to give us information on why today is the search of Darko Mladic's house again? Also, I'm asking our government, the Department of Defense, if it's been notified that two troops of the US Army are being deployed in the North KiM and what they're going to do about it, because it's against Resolution 1244. It's also a brutal violation, and it's probably aimed at pressure to try to make Fayte's threats to subdue the northern KIM municipalities under Pristina. I'm also asking our government and the foreign ministry what they're going to do on this information we've been getting lately that it's been created so-called. A group of friendships to help Sandzak? If we know that there are representatives of France, Germany, the US, the UK and Turkey embassies in this group of friendships, the question of what kind of group is and for what purpose? It's just enough to see that all these countries have recognised the independence of KIM. Whenever such groups were founded we had very big problems, just to remind you of friends of Bosnia and then friends of Kosovo, and you all know what happened. It's obvious something's getting ready for us again, because it's quite clear. We can stick our heads in the sand as much as we want, but obviously something's coming up. Instead of allowing representatives of these embassies, or our level of relations with these embassies to be at the lowest possible level because of recognition of Kosovo's independence, we allow them to do what they want in our country and probably prepare something that will cost Serbia perhaps further territorial secessions. I think that's inadmissible. Which is why they are not responding adequately to our state authorities, because what is happening to us, especially given the announcements regarding a new regionalisation, i.e. the attempt to create some new regions, I fear we will come to a situation that will require new concessions from Serbia. Let's think of the German ambassador, Cimmerman, who was very precise and clear about what was ahead of us. Mr Cobel said very precisely that Serbia did not enter these borders in 1918 in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. He has explained some more historical facts to us, and for 20 years, the goals that are being pursued towards Serbia are in some ways in circulation. We adopted the Statute of Vojvodina, there is already a clear thing, before that was issued and the passport of Vojvodina, although no one was responsible for it, but, as it stands, some earlier indications need to create a new AP in Serbia, it would be so-called. Sandzak. Then it will probably go further until the Serbian space is completely fragmented, and our state bodies absolutely do not respond and yet convince us that it is absolutely not directed against Serbia's interest, against Serbian citizens. I'm sure it is. Remember only the recent statement by Turkish Foreign Minister, who said Turkey's goal is to re-establish the Ottoman Balkans. If we remember what it meant for Serbs, just five centuries of slavery.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35077	The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35078	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first like to wish everyone good work. I want to express the LDP protest because we were forced to stat in the country's political life, which was very dynamic for the previous two months because no extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament was held. Was there a reason for that? Yes, it is. A particular issue for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic – on the basis of which strategies to fight corruption and crime at the moment is being handled by his government, and how does everything that currently monitors our country's efforts to deal with corruption and crime be successfully completed if the essence of the problem is bypassed? Here I would focus my question, which I refer to the Prime Minister, of course his ministers, the interior minister, the minister of justice, the foreign minister, but also other institutions that the government must cooperate with, such as the Privatisation Agency, the BIA, how is it possible to fight against drug clans in the country and ignore a political background without which they could not exist? Namely, here is the privatisation minister from the government of Zoran Djindjic, whom we absolutely supported at the time, Mr Vlahovic, and I am surprised that his party does not have the courage to ask these questions, but rather, the fight against corruption and crime has led to a deal with Montenegro. I think it is more important for us that Darko Saric became a Serbian citizen than the fact that he had often stayed in Montenegro before and after. Who in the time when the leading drug lord in Europe was granted citizenship in this country was controlled by the MUP, BIA, the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry of Economy? The same ones who are looking for an emergency election today, justifying their claim, regardless of the damage that such a thing follows, by the fact that the country is being robbed and destroyed. We expect Mr Cvetkovic to tell the citizens what he knows, that the BIA chief has given consent to a positive response to the request for registration of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who submitted Darko Saric. We expect BIA and the MUP to tell us – how it is possible to spend a billion euros in this country, as the government's representatives in the media daily, a billion euros in black money, and no one reacts to such a thing. Two days ago, we listened to representatives of the Anti-Corruption Council, which for the thousandth time talk about privatising Sartida to one of the country's most successful privatisations, one of the two largest companies in the country, which are most efficient in exports. No one's been asking questions about what's been going on for the last four or five years. I don't think we'll get anywhere if we turn the fight against crime into a second half of a fight lost in 2006, when Montenegro became an independent state. For this reason, I expect the President to first allow us to ask questions to the Prime Minister on Thursday, and then to get answers to these questions – how was it possible to privatise everything that has been privatised since 2005 in Serbia and not react to such a thing by the BIA and the MUP, especially because they knew very well the origin of that money? I think that today we must put this first in front of the citizens of Serbia, because it is the essence of the fight against corruption and crime. While we were performed on polygraphs, while police generals who were accounting in "Sablja" with the mafia were arrested, while prosecutors and judges were arrested, detained and destroyed their and the lives of their families, the mafia in the region won its country in 2004, by the arrival of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica to power. So it was from 2004 until last year. I think if we want to live in an orderly country, then everyone should take part in their responsibility. We've been wearing it since October 2000 until today, we're very proud of what we've done, regardless of whether we've been in power or in opposition, but that silence or neglecting the essence of the problem is something we can't make peace with. This, first of all, is referred to as a question to the Prime Minister, from whom we expect courage, and instead of the insinuations and plots that we look at in the media every day, we would like to face the essence of the problem. Wasn't one Mile Jerkovic a sponsor of the drug lord in Serbia? It seems to us that they had to be much more influential and significant people, that these people were in positions with which they could act effectively, which are positions in power, not positions in opposition. That's why, if we want to change the character of this society, then we can't do it the way we did it in the past. Institutions are fighting individual cases of corruption, and the state is passing laws that allow the system to function effectively if corruption has taken a wide range of situations. This is an example of classical political corruption, and we need to talk about it, and we need to face it instead of a campaign against Montenegro, we need to look at who we are sitting here in parliament and who we are responsible for over the past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35079	Dear People's MPs, there was no initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to schedule a session during which there was no plenary session. In communication with the government, of course, we reminded, remind citizens and all of us, last Thursday of the month it is an opportunity for our ministers and government to ask questions and they will be in parliament. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35080	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I have two questions for you, Madam President. The first question – why in all democratic countries the most important institution, the National Assembly, does not work for more than two months? I don't think your explanations can endure public criticism, especially because I think our country is in a difficult social and economic situation and that citizens expect all state institutions, and perhaps most of all from the National Assembly to work. Then all the stories we all contribute to here fall into the water, someone less guilty, someone more, not to do our job, and for that job we get paid. I think the situation with regard to the standard of life of Serbian citizens is alarming and it is completely inexplicable that more than two months the National Assembly is not ambushed at all. Your explanation that there was no initiative by the MPs and MPs is hardly able to drink water, as the people say. You know, we all want to boost the rating of this institution. We see that today is on the agenda and the Law on the National Assembly, where, on a proposal, the military guard will also play for us here when we enter the National Assembly. If we do this, Madam President, or we don't work for more than two months, then we can have the Belgrade Philharmonic, with all of Shaper, not our ratings jump. I think you Serbian citizens should give one valid explanation – why more than two months, when the sky and the country burn, when citizens strike, when workers strike, when people are desperate not to know what to do with themselves and their families, and their children, for more than two months we don't work here. I am not satisfied with that explanation you questioned fellow Jovanovic. The second question, also referred to you, for more than a month or two, we have listened to your statements regarding the Srebrenica Declaration, that the MPs, as you said, are speaking and writing the text of the resolution. You didn't even say MP groups. I ask you to tell both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia who writes the text of the declaration, is there any? For your information, I've spoken to colleagues from all MPs and no one knows about it, and no one's writing a declaration, not a proposal or a text of the declaration. I have a reasonable doubt that if this text comes to the National Assembly at all, it will come and be planted as a cowardly egg, whatever it says in that text of the resolution. I responsibly claim, at least on behalf of New Serbia's MPs, that no one is writing that declaration. We have submitted the text of the declaration, together with friends from the DSS, as we believe this text should look, and I repeat that I have spoken to colleagues from all MPs and no one knows, and no one has ever held any meetings and no one knows any of that alleged text of the declaration. I'd like you to tell us and the public what's true in all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35081	As for your first question, or the comments on the first question, I'd like to remind us all of article 106. The Constitution, which says in its third position - The National Assembly shall meet in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the Members of Parliament or at the request of the Government with an advanced agenda. Respecting the third position of Article 106. The constitution was not able to schedule a session and there was no plenary session, but the full activity of the Assembly was more than intense. You can gain insight into the work of the board, into the parliamentary-diplomatic activities that we have had during this period, and especially into those activities that we have led around the definitive formation of the text of the draft law that is today on the agenda. This is where the most intense activity took place. About your second question, I'm really sorry that your memories are cheating on you, and they're related to the near past. You are one of the signatories of the text that condemns all crimes, including the crime in Srebrenica. Therefore, your parliamentary group, together with members of the DSS parliamentary group, submitted a proposal for the text, which unfortunately was signed with 30 signatures and could not be the subject of the debate. The LDP parliamentary group provided information to all parliamentary groups, and I based on the claim that MPs are dealing with this issue, and in what way the other MPs and other parliamentary groups do, and the public and you have had opportunities in the previous days to hear and be informed. Mr Nenad Canak has reported, however, I can now only get the word of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, and I cannot give you my word, Mr Chanak. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Momo Colakovic, Nikola Lazic and Dragan Markovic-Palma. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider, by the end of the extraordinary session, the draft agenda law set out in the request of 123 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was called at the request of 123 MPs, according to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010 the following Dn e n e d: 1. A bill on the National Assembly, which was submitted by a group of 128 MPs. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the National Assembly (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by a group of 128 MPs. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes, 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and MEPPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Đuro Peric's MP group PUPS; MP Mr Zoran Shami of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, MP of the SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does a representative of the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia, just to read the notice. Dear People's MPs, you received Goran Cvetanovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Goran Cvetanovic, elected from the SRS electoral list – Dr Vojislav Seselj on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Mrs. Kolundjia has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35082	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, actually, I now represent here this text of the law on behalf of all those who have worked on it in the last two years. We remember that the National Assembly formed a working group, that a working group of different intensities during this period worked to bring the text of the law into line, which we could say in some ways could be common. The idea from the very beginning is that this should be a law that political parties should not argue about, but we have tried to find what they are common to all of us, and this is a shared responsibility for building an institution whose representatives we are and whose basic holders we are. Unfortunately, this effort has failed, and this text of the law has not yet been reached by the joint work of all parliamentary groups, or their representatives, because some parliamentary groups have left the task force. Some have not been involved in some of the last stages of the work group's work, and I regrettably must conclude that this proposal is not, unfortunately, our joint proposal. At the same time, I want to believe that all 250 MPs share the same will to regulate this law to the institution of parliament in a way that it not only deserves, but is also necessary to achieve what is the basic principle of democratic society. The strong institution of parliament is a presumption of building a democratic society. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 110. The Constitution, which obliged the National Assembly to pass the law on to the National Assembly. At the same time, while respecting the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters, all other branches of government have their own law, only the National Assembly had so far no law and many questions were in principle resolved by the Constitution, and the other issues were resolved, above all, by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and so the contents of the Rules of Procedure itself contained elements which were not of a non-business nature, but it was necessary because there was no law which would distinguish the rules of procedure in a strict sense from what is a question of the position of the institution and the position of the MPs. What the intention was, is that this law not only fulfills the constitutional obligation and at least, to say the least, is the question of fulfilling the constitutional obligation to pass the law. I truly deeply believe that without an independent, strong, credible parliament, we cannot talk about building a democratic society. Without an independent, credible, respected MP who enjoys reputation, we also cannot build a democratic society, we cannot build this institution either. Regardless of all the differences that are being expressed in our work, what I want to believe in some way is that, despite the fact that this does not happen by the rule of this Parliament and that there are outbursts that violate the reputation of everyone and violate the reputation of the institution, I believe that there is a sense of responsibility in all of us, that 250 of us are responsible for the credibility and reputation of this institution, and not just for our reputation. For us, it is an important fact not only that we first pass the Law on the National Assembly, but that we are trying to strengthen Parliament's position in a way that has never been done in practice before, and that other legal regulations have not been done. The history of Serbian parliamentarianism is not long and has not given us much experience to rely on, regardless of what some like, returning to the past, to claim that we have had incredible institutions and incredible progress. But what you can safely say is, if there were any bright moments, there was no continuity. Only through continuity, we deeply believe, on good grounds can we build quality, good institutions that will take responsibility for building a democratic society, in which clear rules will apply, in which there will be unequivocally equality of all and in which each MP will be responsible before all voters, and not just before his own. So, if we come to a situation where we believe that, no matter who voted for us, we are responsible for the fate of all citizens in this country, I think we will be able to build relations within the parliament that will allow Parliament to do the job for which citizens have chosen us here. The specific issues that this law dealt with and which were in some way potentiated in this law are the issue of public work, which we consider an extremely important issue. So the most important thing in the democratic system is that citizens know to the end what their representatives are doing. In that sense, we have tried to develop the public of work, opening the maximum work of Parliament with the eyes of the public. I have seen that some amendments have come in the meantime and I just want to say that every amendment, which contributes to the basic objective that we have set, will accept with the intention of really strengthening those elements of the position of this institution that we believe are pregnant when it comes to achieving the constitutional role of parliament. Therefore, the public of work for us is a key issue, and we believe that this depends on what extent Parliament will rely on the citizens and on what we have taken as an obligation to achieve the results that will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. When we worked to determine the rights and obligations of MPs regarding the mandate-immunity issues, then, as in other issues of course, but here in particular, we had a certain constitutional, so to speak, limitations and definitions that we have consistently adhered to. Many questions are being asked - why haven't we dealt with the mandates in this law? Because we really believe that the issue of mandate is the law on the selection of MPs, not the National Assembly. We believe that the Law on selecting Members of Parliament will come before this Parliament soon and that we will discuss it and that we will then discuss the matter of mandate, which is, to some extent, controversial and which, as I understood from previous talks with representatives of parliamentary groups, polarises parliamentary groups. Because some believe that the issue of the mandate must be resolved as an inalienable right of MPs, that the MP is the only one who has the mandate and that what is called somehow a blank resignation category that is contrary to basic democratic principles, while others believe that this law should have a constitutional possibility for the MP to be able, under certain conditions, to entrust his mandate to the party. What we have defined is a definition that says that the MP freely has his mandate, convinced that it is fully in accordance with the Constitution, on the one hand, but also not in the working out of the mechanisms which determines how the MP freely disposes of his mandate. When it comes to immunity issues, I have to say that it's quite complicated to work out the mechanism because of the fact that the Constitution, I'll allow myself to say, a little contradictoryly defined question of immunity and we had a very serious problem how to define the issue of immunity within the limits of constitutional solutions more precisely. What was our idea is that the issue of parliamentary immunity is not extended without a limit. So the question of parliamentary immunity for us was, in a political sense, the question of what immunity is when it comes to a parliamentary function should be protected and what should not be protected. We have come from the fact that behind immunity no criminal acts must be hidden which are not related to the performance of the parliamentary post and we have tried to find a formulation that provides, to some extent, the possibility of restricting the immunity of the MPs to what is not really related to the performance of the parliamentary post, and to stick to the Constitution at the same time. What was also important to us is the question of achieving the basic functions of parliament, which is legislative, we are the bearers of the most constitutional and legislative authorities, it is a control function, it is an electoral function and it is a representative function. We have tried this law to strengthen a little more in detail what are the basic functions of each Parliament and we believe that they should also be the basic functions of this Parliament. Of course, we did not go into the details because we believe that the development of all these questions should be the subject of other sublegal acts that this congregation will bring in by law. Analysing the work of parliament and working bodies so far, we have seen that there are many problems in the Rules of Procedure regarding certain actions related to the activities that this assembly has. So, we've had problems interpreting and implementing different kinds of procedures that are being conducted here, from election procedures to law-making, to ratification, and we've come to the conclusion that it's necessary to classify this law with the kind of procedures that this assembly has and that a special act specifically determines these procedures, in order to avoid the problem of missing the procedure for some of the obligations that we have to implement. What is also important for everyone, and I think that we can all agree on that, is that within the laws that exist and that define other issues define the financial independence of parliament. Our deep belief is that unless parliament has an elementary financial independence in relation to the government, it cannot perform its basic function, which is to control the government's work. That's why we thought that the way to adopt the Assembly budget in which the Assembly proposes its budget, conducts talks with the government, asks for agreement with the Government, but in case it does not get government support, or that the Government is not ready to support the draft budget, the government must accept the budget proposed by the National Assembly. At the same time, we felt that it was an extremely important provision to say that the government cannot unilaterally suspend and halt budget implementation towards the National Assembly, because we had situations in which the government says it cannot transfer money to parliament and this unequivocally brings parliament into a position that it, because of its financial dependence on the government, is politically blackmailed or is at least possible to be politically blackmailed against the government. We thought it was an important question to whom attention should be paid. Of course, here we have the assumption and limitations related to the Budgetary System Act. So as much as that was possible now, we did it. At the same time, we felt that this law needed unequivocally to oblige the Government to participate in the work of parliament and its working bodies, and there are provisions that say that the Committee's meetings, which discuss laws and projects and the government's opinion, require the presence of a representative of the government. In this way, we simply wanted to put the government in a position not to question whether they are committed or not to participate in the work by regulating this relationship in a natural system in which parliament has a supervisory role, i.e. it controls the government's work. This law provides for their obligation. I would like to say that by looking for ways to strengthen the work of the board, we have opened up the possibility that special scientific and other institutions that would be involved in providing expert assistance in the work of the board, as well as individuals who could also help committees. Indeed openly speaking, no one here can say that the Assembly has capacity, professional capacity when it comes to services, to respond to the enormous needs this parliament has in one huge legislative activity that is behind us, but especially that is ahead of us. We truly deeply believe that without the possibility of such a type of involvement of experts of the Assembly or not being able to respond in the best way to its task, or what comes out of the Assembly will be insufficiently well-observed and ultimately insufficiently intervened in laws. I'm going to end this, and I just want to say that I really believe that if there are, of course, objections to what the solutions are in this law, we are prepared to seriously consider them and to put everything that will improve this text into this text. I truly believe and call upon all the MPs, this is a law that does not concern political parties. This is a law that doesn't need to divide us into being a government, and some opposition, because maybe tomorrow someone will be a government, and someone else will be an opposition, and I think that if we work together on this text, we can create a law that will allow every government and every opposition in this Parliament to build this institution as a key institution in a democratic society, which I believe we all stand for, even when we have different views on how it should look.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35083	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you that Article 2. The RS constitution stipulates that sovereignty belongs to citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that citizens exercise sovereignty through referendums and national initiatives and their freely expressed choice of their legitimate representatives. In this context, the fifth part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of governing the government, defines the National Assembly as the most representative body of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the holder of the constitutional and legislative authority. It is on these constitutional principles and on this line, as well as on all provisions concerning the National Assembly, which are regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that we have before us the text of the draft law on the National Assembly. The applicant's intensities were that the law contained material and legal provisions, and that procedural and legal provisions concerning the processing of procedures, the way in which acts were taken, the way in which decisions were taken, etc. They stay with the Rules of Procedure. I will only remind myself of the comparative experience, the comparative practice of certain countries in the environment and Europe. In some countries, there are laws that regulate parliament. In others, the choice of rights is only a Rules of Procedure, such as in the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Croatia and some other countries. Our Constitution obliges us to pass laws on the National Assembly, and I believe that this law and all the provisions that contain are not just the workings of provisions concerning the National Assembly in Chapter 5. The RS constitution and they are in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would highlight the two aspects contained in this law, which may not have been mentioned enough so far, which are international co-operation between the National Assembly and the property and funding of the National Assembly. In addition to its legislative, representative and control functions, a very important aspect of our work as a representative body of Serbian citizens is international co-operation and that is something that will be intensified in the coming period, especially in the process of harmonising our legal order with the legal assets of the European Union. What is also important to highlight is the property and funding of the National Assembly. These provisions contain one legal basis for the development of the principle of independence of the government, that is, Parliament's independence from, firstly, the executive authorities. What is the importance of parliament is said and one thing that may seem trivial at first sight, but the fifth part of the RS Constitution speaks of governing, starts with the work, that is, provisions on the National Assembly, then the President of the Republic continues to talk about the government and the judiciary as the third branch of power. I call on all MPs to participate actively in this debate as an authorised representative. We believe that this is not a matter of any parliamentary group, that this is not a matter of any political party. We must legally standardise and institutionalise this home as the most representative body of citizens and as the holder of constitutional and legislative authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35085	I give my word to Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly, I would like to report that the Committee has considered the draft law in principle and has found that it is necessary to intervene with the amendments in three members of this law, since it is necessary to harmonise the legal and technical order and ensure consistency in the formulation of certain terms and institutes relating to the draft law. What I am saying is that it is necessary to pass a law on the National Assembly, since the constitutional and legal system is incomplete in this sense, because not all three branches of government in Serbia are defined by legislation, so that the only National Assembly is left without its law, which would define its position, its role and its relationship with other branches of government. What is important for this bill is that it completes constitutional and legal regulation and perfects the legal system of the RS. Also, this has political consequences, given that the adoption of such a law is currently being developed by the political system of RS. Respecting everything the president of the ZES Club, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, and my esteemed predecessor, I will not repeat what they said in their presentations, but I want to underline two things. The two roles of parliament are very important, which are the representative and control role of parliament. When we talk about the representative role, it is the attitude of MPs to citizens, who are free and who have chosen their representatives in the free process for this most important body, the RS legislature. Since the Constitution requires the sovereignty of the RS from citizens, it means that a direct link must be provided by law between representatives of citizens in parliament as the highest representative home and citizens themselves. This shall be ensured by constitutional powers that the MP may be in possession of his or her mandate in accordance with the law. This also gives full authority to MPs so that they can represent their own position in parliament and that no one can call them to account. This means that the intermediate role of the party between citizens and MPs is waning. This provides a more complete link between MPs to citizens, which means that citizens will be able to freely represent the interests of citizens from all parts of Serbia, in line with all specificities and in line with the specific interests of citizens of certain parts of Serbia in parliament, following the adoption of this law. This also means that citizens' representatives will participate in the creation of a state policy, in the formation of budgets, budgeting, spending and controlling the spending of public funds, but above all taking into account the specific interests of Serbian citizens. Some parties believe this is an anti-constitutional provision in the bill. They are probably afraid of losing control of the party's role over parliamentarians. In this way, first of all, the responsibility of MPs to perform public office is strengthened, which is a democratic principle that we all need to strive for and that responsibility of MPs to citizens must be constantly strengthened. I can express regret that this citizen control mechanism towards MPs is not more pronounced. There is no control function of citizens over MPs, and there is no mechanism for citizens to influence the position of their MP for whom they voted in parliament and to seek responsibility in accordance with the conduct of parliament, by measuring the MP's behaviour in the pre-election campaign against what, as a political goal, became supported by the citizens before the elections themselves, on the basis of which the citizens entered parliament, which they agreed with the citizens what would be the subject of their representation in Parliament. I believe that the upgrade of the legal and political system will continue in the future. I expect this bill to be passed, that is a good step. The first step in defining the position of parliament in relation to other branches of government and positioning MPs in relation to Serbian citizens. I believe that the control role of parliament should have been further defined, but I also believe that the proposed solutions provide sufficient grounds for destination, i.e. to distinguish the position of all three branches of government in constitutional frameworks and define that the Serbian Parliament is overseeing the government's work. Someone on the Committee commented that a second term was to be used, which is that the Assembly controls the work of the Government, although the Constitution itself says that the Assembly is overseeing the work of the Government. The government is politically responsible to parliament, parliament is no inspection of the government's work, but it controls the government in accordance with the programme and policy it has chosen for, has the right to constitutional control of the government's behaviour and has the ability to control whether the government is acting in accordance with the Government's Law and the Ministry Act. Therefore, the role of parliament has been further defined and the possibility of the government controlling parliament in an unnatural and anti-constitutional manner has been prevented and the political domination of the executive authority over parliament continues, such as the bilaterality in the modern history of the Republic of Serbia. Parliament gets its legal framework on constitutional grounds. Parliament strengthens its role. The role of parliament is strengthened. But I must also say that all MPs in parliament are responsible for Parliament's public appearance. We must not allow MPs to abuse their powers. We must take care of the public responsibility for Parliament's behaviour, but we must also appreciate that not only the ruling majority, but that the opposition itself represents the institution of sui generis, so that the opposition has responsibility for creating state policy, has responsibility for the supervisory role of parliament over the executive authorities and has the responsibility to act, together with all other MPs and most of them, uniformly and synergy towards other branches of government in accordance with constitutional frameworks.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35087	Do the People's MPs want the word to be expressed at the Committee's meetings? At the session of the Legislative Committee, Mr Boris Aleksic, does he want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will briefly explain why I voted out my opinion. First of all, our position is that this law is against the constitution. Before that, I would have to draw attention to Mr. Bosko Ristic to read the National Assembly Bill more carefully, because you have just proposed the term "control". So, in Article 7, you stated in the bill that "The National Assembly within its competences performs the following functions", including "control function". So, you've just made one mistake. On your board, the members of that committee commented that the National Assembly should perform a supervisory function and that it performs a supervisory function in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Note what you are saying and at least the next time read the bill on the National Assembly before discussing it. What we consider and what is very concrete is that a member of the 37th bill is anti-constitutional, because it says that "the MP freely has his mandate". Gentlemen, in Britain, we can go to the U.S., where MPs, i.e. candidates for Congress and Assembly perform as individuals, do not perform on the list, so whoever first receives a number of votes and a certain quota, who gets the most votes, becomes a national MP. Where there's a list, where the whole party performs with a certain ideology with certain positions, that's impossible. It is obvious your intention that by this bill, this law when you vote it, you create court parties, parties that you will start slowly mass-producing in parliament. Similarly, King Milan, who created a pro-astrougar party called the Progressive Party, which signed a secret convention with Austro-Hungarian in 1881, which was very similar to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Austria obtained all economic rights in Serbia through the contract, while Serbia had no rights in Austria. Something similar got the EU, a modern Austro-Hungarian today, because Austria had large territories, all the way from Spain to Poland, were its possessions, it also had possessions in the holy country. Then even today, the Progressives have the Austrian role of the pro-Western party, and it is the regime in Serbia that allows them to act. To respect the constitution in particular, to respect the laws, you couldn't do things like this. Thus, the constitution makes it very clear that the MP has the right to make his mandate available to the party whose lists he has been elected, which is in line with the electoral system of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I will urge you that MPs in the Republic of Serbia are elected right from the party lists, representing appropriate ideologies. They have received a mandate from citizens to represent exactly such political views in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, these views, what is most important, cannot change how the wind blows, as it happens in the National Assembly, so those who were once for Western Serbian actresses Karlobag – Ogulin – Karlovac – Virovitica, are now for the United States to be the first associate and partner of the Republic of Serbia. They are for Euro-Atlantic integration, and just as Washington and Brussels have violated Serbia's ethnic space and today, over the already mentioned friends, Sandzak, via Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina, narrows Serbia to the pre-cuminary borders. So, the reason I took the stand is because this bill in one article, in Article 37, is against the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35089	Mr. Bosko Ristic, he has the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35090	All I'm saying is that an esteemed colleague misreads my presentation on purpose, because the bill says that Parliament has a control function, and that in the exercise of its control function, he controls the work of the government. Therefore, these two expressions are not collapsing. There was an intensities to replace "control" with the term "control" that the Assembly controls the government's work, which is not possible in terms of political division of government and in terms of constitutional provisions. I must also say that I am absolutely in favour of a free mandate and that all those who believe that the party should dictate on MPs live in a retrograde world and live in some historical circumstances or regret the historical circumstances where the party can be a filter between citizens and parliament. Since we have an open and free society, where citizens are free, I believe that the parliamentary mandate should be fully free and that each MP can use his constitutional right to have his mandate in accordance with the law by deciding on his own, without the influence of the party, or by making a contract with the party and having a direct influence on his way of thinking and acting. In my view, the democratic values of developed societies in the world are such that parliamentarians are free to respond directly to citizens who are the holders of sovereignty. It is a modern definition and a modern way of regulating every democratic society and I stand for it. I believe that everything else is, that every counter-proposal of this is retrograde and that at the expense of the interests of Serbian citizens, who need their representative in parliament directly express their interests, to fight for a state policy that corresponds to the interests of citizens, to fight for the creation of a law that will be a framework for government behaviour, but also to monitor the government's work, which will spend public funds in the interests of citizens evenly, in order for the whole of Serbia to develop evenly. It is the interest of all of us, as well as MPs, to act in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35091	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35092	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee for a number of reasons, but I will only list two or three for lack of time, and I believe that my colleagues will elaborate everything we think about this law. Article 110. The Constitution speaks of our obligation to pass the Law on the National Assembly. We brought the constitution in 2006. Here's only after four, five years running, we're just passing the Law on the National Assembly, and for ten years we've been talking about how we need it. Why? So to strengthen the institution of the National Assembly and I believe that it is the intimate wish of every MP, but it is obvious that we are someone's hostages and that we are not frames to do so. Either we're the hostages of the media, or we're the hostages of the tycoon, or some other service, mostly everyone's worked here for years to make this institution a monetizer, and not for respect, so that the Constitution prescribes it, and that we would like this law to prescribe it. We are very guilty of such a situation ourselves, because we have not yet respected the Constitution, and just some of the members we are predicting here, which I do not know whether we will retroactively apply, we also do not respect, as a member of the 40th that says that the MP ceases the function that is incompatible with the parliamentary function on the day of confirming the parliamentary term. We know that we have such cases in parliament and we are deaf about it. We have a 62. Mr. Ristic has potentiated the member, saying that the National Assembly is achieving international co-operation and that this will become more and more intense as you join the EU. However, the fact is that we have delegations voted by the Assembly, but that these delegations go to international institutions. The latest thing that happened, and I don't think there's any explanation, I'm sorry to say that because as a permanent member of the OSCE delegation, I was completely uninformed that our delegation was going on a trip to Vienna. So they left without a representative of an MP's group. If that's what you want, free of what it says here, we obviously don't apply it, and frankly I don't believe it even if it's ideal for you to apply it, because you've always found ways that you don't respect the law, that the Constitution doesn't respect it. What is fundamentally why we believe that this law is now being passed, is this famous member of 37, who makes it look like you want to change the electoral law, and that's what you're already doing with this law, so that you don't come into a situation to change it. The constitution is clear on whose parliamentary mandates belong, because ending the electoral will for us is the greatest crime that can happen in one society. Since citizens are the holders of sovereignty, if we are in an election campaign, as participants in the electoral process with our electoral lists, we promise one programme, we say – we will advocate Kosovo for this and that, for the EU's entry for it and that, against NATO, we do not give Mladic, we want this economy, we want that kind of economy, and after that, when we enter parliament and get 78 mandates, someone suddenly gets enlightened, becomes smarter than he was, forgets what he promised, forms a new parliamentary group, and parliament hears and legalizes, then it's stealing over the thefts, and then it's responsibility on all of us. Because this article in 37th in our view cannot stand here as anti-constitutional to just legalize the theft of the formation of a new parliamentary group, which did not participate in the elections, I believe I had the right to single out my opinion and to expose it to the citizens of Serbia to hear what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35093	Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the opening statement, representatives of the proposings and fellow committee presidents expressed some of their views which certainly do not correspond to the factual state. Of all the things they said, it's true that article 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges parliament to pass a law on the Assembly, but it is true that no one wanted to mention, that a member of the 15th Law on the implementation of the Constitution has obliged this parliament to pass the law by 31 August 2008. We Serbian radicals, as members of a serious, responsible and state-run party and as people who participated actively in the adoption of the Constitution, have realised that it is the obligation of parliament to fulfil all its constitutional obligations, including the obligation to pass laws on the National Assembly. For this reason, even in the previous session, we have appointed a representative of our parliamentary group to participate actively in the draft law on the National Assembly. On one and the other, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the formal member of that task force was me. That's why I think I've been invited to say a few facts about the work group's work in this first part of my presentation. I won't spend much time going back to that previous meeting, but the fact that a serious work on making this bill was launched in that previous session, that we were all actively involved in making the bill and that the work on making that proposal ended the moment that we were given a proposal to this task force. It was said to be Mr Dragoljub Micunovic's proposal. No one knew why he was his. That's when the task force stopped functioning. In the new assembly of parliament, one of the first jobs was to re-establish a working group that would draft this law, and in this working group we thought that your intentions were serious, that your intentions were sincere, as Mrs Kolundzia said, that this law was not the law of the ruling majority, but that it was indeed the law of all or at least most of the MPs, to be really the law in which everyone participated. We thought that we had a place in this working group and already at the first meeting of that working group we realized that you from the ruling majority actually needed a form to be able to say in public – here, all the parliamentary groups are participating in the draft of this law, and in fact you already had a law on which the media had been written for a year and a half a day, not in a period of time. We didn't want to be involved in this because we didn't want to be your cover. We did not want to be there just for the form and for this reason the MPs of the SRS, in particular me, no longer wanted to participate in the work of the working group. A colleague here is the chairman of the Legislative Committee, when he tried to explain to us why our claim was not correct, and he did, that Article 37. The bill does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he spoke of Article 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says sovereignty comes from citizens, who hold a referendum, a people's initiative and through their freely elected representatives, which is not disputed. But in this context, it should be reminded of Article 5. The constitution, which says it is being guaranteed and recognised the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens. You didn't want to, or... (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35095	Is there anyone else who's got an opinion that wants a word? Mr. Jojiæ, please sign in. Sreto Peric signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35096	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you made a little mistake, you said colleague Petar Jojic, so you gave your word to me, which doesn't bother you. I will now speak of an exceptional opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. For an exceptional opinion of the reason, there is more, but in order to get the right idea, I have to ask one question first and, of course, I will give the answer to that question. Does it take a law on the National Assembly to regulate the work of this respected home? It certainly is. Mrs. Colundge, we, the MPs of the SRS, want to pass such a law where an independent, credible and respectable MP can only come here in such a way as to represent the interests of those who voted for him. My intention is not to underestimate your work and your commitment to this bill, but all I can argue with is that I will. You said at the session of the Legislative Committee that this was a proposal from all 250 MPs, which is absolutely not true, but you have now corrected yourself and said that it was a proposal from you 128 that you signed and called for this session. I still have to say that you said that this proposal has been working for about two years, so it could be said that this proposal is on behalf of all those in two thousand and one. It's really nice. Remember, some of the two thousand and some are now at the maximum of ten years, and that may be the most beautiful part of our society, but certainly not those who can and do not have the maturity to pass one of these laws. It would have been much better and better quality if you had spent your time going to protect this institution. Remember only a number of press articles, and I assume that this is a green light given to write about it, and around this institution is reduced to the lowest level in Serbia, which is not deserved by MPs, if not for themselves, and at least because of those who voted for them in certain elections and showed them confidence. What is most problematic, which is really unconstitutional in this bill, is certainly a member of this 37th bill. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as president of this parliament, showed it best when she read the notice before the debate was opened under this bill on the resignation of a former MP. We wondered a year and a half ago who would be the next MP in the name of those, and now you want with this bill what you consciously did a year and a half ago to legalize, to legalize. You can do it, you did it and then, but it's not right. In the last elections in May 2008, the SRS list – Dr Vojislav Seselj received 78 seats. Our policy was very clear then and, as you like to say, transparently presented to our voters and we received 78 seats from the MPs. Now you have one of those mandates sitting together with you, unofficially perhaps a member of your party. With a number of mandates, there are those people who have changed their policy in full and gave up what they have explained to the citizens what their pledge will be and what their goal will be in the coming period, when they enter the parliament of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Article 7 is, in my opinion, the most controversial, but I will talk more about it when we talk about the debate in principle under this law, because the representative role of parliament and the control role of parliament are certain that it has been present in this Parliament at least so far, and with this law it will not be in the next parliament. The legislative role this parliament will play, the electoral role will play, what is foreseen by the Constitution and the laws that elections will be made in the National Assembly will be, but the representative role of our citizens will not be sufficiently represented. The fact that this parliament has not been in session for two months, at a time when many issues have been disputed and open, suggests that it is being ignored, that it is neglecting the representative role, and of the control role, above all, I mean the executive power, there is no speech. You said this law defines the division of power. He doesn't define the division of power. This way you want to hide from the public, from Serbian citizens stealing property, the division of property they have acquired for centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35097	The word has a National MP, Petar Jojic, who held an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us this bill to the National Assembly, I have had a number of objections and I have highlighted them on the Legislative Committee, as well as on the Justice Committee. My first remark would refer to basic provisions, firstly because they are not well-formed. It is not a basic provision, in order for Article 1 to be governed, that there should be a general provision to regulate this law. That's my first objection to this proposed law. As for Article 15, I also felt that the National Assembly had failed again to exercise control over the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions formed and elected by the National Assembly. You have this proposal in front of you that, from a formal legal point of view, can mean something, but essentially does not edit and formulate in the right way our Parliament does. This does not raise Parliament's authority. No parallel-legal analysis is available. The promoter had to and should already, if laws are being prepared, to use the Institute for Comparative Law that Serbia has, to do a comparative-legislative analysis in order to see and compare how the countries in the environment, in Europe and in the world have regulated parliamentary life and how they have regulated Parliament's rights and obligations. As regards Article 15(1), it is in conflict with Article 58. In Article 15(3), Parliament's rights and competences – it oversees the work of the government, security services, governors, civil protectionists and other institutions. In Article 37 of this proposal, which is contrary to Article 15, it is said that under law and jurisdiction, the National Assembly is in control of the work of the Government. I'm asking and I want to be explained what control is and what is surveillance. Are we going to oversee the government from Avala, will we go from Fruska Gora, will we go from the Avala Tower or from the Beogradian Palace, 22 floors across Studio B to oversee the work of the government? No, I don't. In my view, it had to be determined that the National Assembly was in control of the work of the government and of the other institutions it elects. As for Article 41, the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament, I think we mentioned that on the Justice Committee today. In addition to other rights, the MP should have the right to seek authentic interpretation of the law. As for Article 46, the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. We will see now, from the application of this law, whether the Assembly will be empty and that the chairman is communicating with one or two MPs in parliament. We will see whether it will be realized that the MPs are obliged to participate in the work of the Assembly, because the public has numerous objections when they see that it is an empty assembly. As for the 67th funding and budget of the National Assembly, you have again left the government with its fingers, and they are very long with the prime minister and finance minister. What is this supposed to be, and how is that supposed to be? If the finance minister and the government gave their opinion again, that's pointless. It's pointless that we're looking for any opinion. Madam Chairman, I've also given my opinion to the Justice Committee, so allow me to use that short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35099	When an opinion comes to order. Thank you. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the following MPs singled out: Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic, Mirko Munjic, Verica Radeta and Judita Popovic. National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35100	As for Article 67, however, I am a supporter of this, if the National Assembly is given the right to have its own budget, why will the finance minister become more involved or government? What happens if the government's or the finance minister's opinion is contrary, that he disagrees? In that case, the Assembly brings its budget, in line with the Republika Srpska budget, but it is pointless to prescribe something that is absolutely unacceptable. As regards Article 37, I would like to refer to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that provision of Article 102(2). "The MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law (because we are now allowing and defining the law to regulate the position, rights and choice of MPs in the right way), at the same time irrevocably place his mandate at the disposal of the political party whose proposal has been elected as a MP." I have no dilemmas about whether the MP, elected by the citizens, was the one who went to the elections himself, received a number of votes, and thus remained a national MP, but that the MP participates in the list of the political parties that he proposes, assigns him a mandate, and that in an unexplainable manner tomorrow, you allow him to be able to freely dispose of his mandate, it is absolutely unacceptable. This is contrary to Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it does not comply with morals either. Shall we let this House enjoy its reputation? Let's not let this parliament breathe or be devious to these measures that we cannot compare our parliament with the parliaments in Europe and the world. As for Article 78, he regulates the rights and obligations of civil servants and deputies who work in the service of the National Assembly. This is not good and is not properly regulated and is not proposed in an appropriate way. What will you now rent from joint staff workers to be hired and to work for the Serbian Assembly without being in the budget of the National Assembly and not to be financed from the budget of the National Assembly. I find that absolutely unacceptable. Furthermore, Madam Chairman, within the meaning of Article 42 of the proposal of this law, since the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure under Rule 75, since you are the Chairman, I ask you to provide me with a comparative legal analysis from the Institute, in particular for the work of Parliament, the establishment of Parliament, the right and obligations and, in parallel, to analyse the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, or other parliaments, since it is up to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on Labour under Rule 75. It's a bill of law. Otherwise, I have to notice, and I have to inform you, I'm asking a number of questions, but I don't get answers from the government. Intervention, it's not worth it. I asked how 35 enterprises were sold in Pancheva and I didn't get an answer. In the end, I asked, since everything in Panchev was so sold, I asked since Pancheva was sold. I do not get an answer from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and the Privatisation Agency has addressed part of the issue and referred to the final development and response of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Now the question is the government's relationship to the National Assembly and to you as president of the National Assembly. It can't be like that. Ministers and government must finally answer to parliament. I must say that the position of MPs is formally prescribed by this bill, but nothing here is fundamentally changing, the work of MPs is not being promoted, both in rights and in obligations. (President: five minutes. ) That is why I am asking and asking for a comparative legal analysis, to see in Europe what countries are...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35101	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35102	I am another member of parliament who has taken the view of this bill. I opted out because many provisions or, let me say, a good part of this bill simply doesn't communicate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is not only a question of disagreement, but also of the obvious opposite of certain provisions of the bill with constitutional norms and constitutional principles. Here you do not know where it begins, where the Constitution ends, when it comes to the National Assembly, where it begins, where this bill ends, and where it begins, and where the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly ends. I must say that both the Law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but one must make a difference what can be regulated by the Rules of Procedure and what should be regulated by the law. It is likely that the law should regulate the legal position of the National Assembly as the highest state body. In this need to overwrite some of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we have received a kind of cartoon and devaluation of what is a constitutional norm. I would like to give just a few examples where, in a really rough way, it devalues the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is simply amazing that the responsibilities of the National Assembly, defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are carried out through the exercise of functions. The function is a category of mathematics and physics. However, when it comes to the Constitution and what is called the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, then it is the rights and obligations, these are the tasks of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, here the word "function" is not synonym for something but simply a kind of cartoon, and it follows. The Constitution says the National Assembly is a representative body. However, you represent the National Assembly as something that performs a representative function, and the representative function is done through consideration of objections, complaints and complaints from citizens and talks with citizens. Each MP performs 24 hours, and when he does some legislative work, and when he does some work from the so-called so-called. election powers, and when overseeing the authorities for whose supervision the National Assembly is authorised. It's all part of the representation function because it's all done here on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of those who voted and influenced the formation of this very National Assembly, with such representatives. Of course, in that devaluation goes to say Article 15. I don't know why, if you've already prescribed something in the Constitution, you've started the sentence with "as the holder of the constitution"? It's not like he's the only bearer of that constitutional and legislative authority. Election functions, they're election rights of the National Assembly, I don't know why you had to change that. And this, now, I'm not going to go into the details, this control function, as you say, is not just surveillance, but something that means the government is responding to the National Assembly, and when it does, it's not just control, control, it's something much, much more serious, much wider, and more significant. In Article 19(4), you held up a presidency. I don't know what presidency you mean? And here comes some specifics, which is Article 26, where you're talking about a college of the National Assembly, so there's some things you've completely messed up. The college is something that is an organ, a co-ordination council, if you think about something that is advised, it's a whole other category, but if you wanted to really regulate what's in your position as a member of 26, then you could say that it's some management committee, so you could simply realize that it's something that helps the president perform his functions better, because he obviously has problems with performing his duties, competences, what is prescribed. In the end, I have to tell you that you have enriched Serbian legal science with this bill. Why? There are several members that will make all professors, and there are 15 who have written doctoral dissertations on the subject of the mandate and the National Assembly, smile sweetly when you say – there is a mandate. A legal job is available, a legal job that involves gaining, alienating, benefiting, managing, etc. But then, because there's a danger of being the first to be punished today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35103	The word is from Ambassador Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ruling majority, your notion of democracy under the auspices of Euro-Atlantic integration and the acceptance of some modern Western values is illustrated in the text of this law, among other things, by the law of the National Assembly. Every authority, and for today's rule is truly characteristic, feels that it exists, that it exists and that it survives very often thanks to a certain ignorance of the people. That's why you're instinctively afraid of enlightening that people. But it can't go any further. I-I didn't want to, every government sometimes has to make some concessions in terms of concessions to that and to that enlightenment. Here, for example, in the bill of this law, you want to falsely display to that same people that you are supposed to lift some unnecessary bond by setting free mandates. You lift a bond called the political party, to protect the people, to protect the citizens of Serbia. What's really going on behind the hill? Here you are, in fact, forming a new kind of stock market business called simply – the trafficking of MPs. But the truth about it will really come out soon, and then, I wonder, when that truth comes out, when everyone knows it, and that people, from whom you so skillfully hide it, will someone blush because of what you do to that same people, will someone blush because of what you do to Serbian citizens? A man is the only animal that blushes or at least needs to blush. However, there are many more objections to this bill. Some concern principled matters, from discrepancies with the provisions of the Serbian Constitution, to certain technical things that you yourself acknowledge. However, you will vote and vote this law surely, for that you have the required majority. So vote and vote this bill today, and you'll have time to repent tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35105	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35106	Let me continue with Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, put into place by the 1st member, says the role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens is guaranteed and recognised. To us, it is really unclear why you of the ruling majority have been insisting that in all possible ways of the political party you are actually pushing out of political life? We, Serbian radicals, believe that these are not the fluids of democracy, especially the fluids of parliamentary democracy, and we cannot accept the views expressed here by colleagues who advocated this latest trend in the ruling coalition and the ruling majority. Mrs Nada Kolundžija said that this proposal for a Law on the National Assembly is actually the basis for the division of power in the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you that the division of power is regulated by Article 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states in paragraph 1 that the legal order is unique, and in attitude 2, that the regulation of the government rests on the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters. So this law doesn't make up anything that doesn't already exist. When you prescribed this from the Constitution, and it is good that it is, then you should have prescribed a member, or you were obliged to rewrite Article 102, of Article 2 of this article, which says that the MP is free to, under certain conditions, unrequitedly put his mandate at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected as a MP. This is something you want to eskicipate, because you actually want to legalize a situation that you have illegally produced in this House in this House, and then we cannot accept your claims that you want this law to achieve the goal of making the MP independent, credible and so forth. I will remind you of the recent past, when you were not sure that you would have the majority to vote on the Information Act, and you then bought in the ruling majority one of the MPs you declared independent. He's independent of the MP group he belonged to, but he's very dependent on you from the ruling majority, and I really think it's too much to talk about credibility at all. You say: The Messenger is responsible in front of all the voters, not just his constituents. Yes, Mrs. Kolundjia, and which voters were responsible for someone you allowed to be an MP without having voters because he didn't participate in the elections, and because he didn't have a party and because he didn't have a political program that he was supposed to represent here to have a parliamentary group? No, a political programme of the SRS was presented, which was voted by so many people on 11 May 2008 that the number actually produced 78 SRS mandates. You've annulled it with your will, and now you want to legalize it. You didn't think that way when, say, Mr Dragisa Djokovic, and now our colleague, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, moved to the Democratic Party. It then succeeded in the coalition then to take his mandate, which is absolutely correct, which is fully in line with the Constitution and according to parliamentary democracy. You didn't think so even when you took the mandates of Sovronija Čonjagic and Vesna, I can't remember now, I apologize, Ilic, Lalić, as her colleague's last name is, I apologize to her, therefore, who were members of G17 plus. And you're right to take their mandates, because these are the terms of the party G17 plus, but it's very interesting that you have different arches compared to different parties, that is, the current interests of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35107	The word has a letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35108	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Justice, I was forced to exclude my voice and my opinion, for the reason that this law has one serious flaw, which is why LDP cannot support this bill. We agree that it is a constitutional obligation to pass the Law on the Assembly. However, this law has one flaw, and this is the reform capacity of the bill is insufficient. In this context, this law has certain problems with resolving and reforming the relationship of the legislative body with the executive authority, there is a lack of reforming the procedure for the adoption of the law, so-called. Pro-European laws. We had a chance to arrange this bill for Parliament to work really rationally, efficiently and productively. However, we will obviously miss that chance. Because how is parliament supposed to be placed in an equal position compared to the executive power with these solutions given in the bill? How is it thought to accelerate the adoption of pro-European laws aimed at harmonising domestic rules with EU rules? We don't have everything under this law. I believe that the stated objectives set out in the reasoning of the bill will certainly not be achieved by this proposal. Reform as a reform cannot only stand out declaratively, but it must be essential and real, and with the proposed legal solutions we will not achieve that reform. Usual ritual practices, the introduction of rituals, such as swearing, intonating an anthem, the solemn guard, and so on will not contribute to the essence that Serbia should seek, which is reforming full legislation and reforming the legal order and system. The LDP cannot support such a bill on the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35109	The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35110	I have a need to react to some of the findings that have been made here, deeply convinced that they are not standing. I'm going to start with the last presentation and that this law doesn't have enough reform capacity. If it was meant to change the status and position of the National Assembly in Serbia's political, legal and constitutional system, then I must say that a reform step in this regard is only possible to the limit set by the Constitution. We have sought this last border allowed by the Constitution to place the institution of parliament on the one hand in the constitutional framework, and on the other hand we have given it the capacity of a modern institution to meet the needs of a modern democratic society and the needs of what it needs to do. Also, it does not stand for the lack of capacity for reform procedures that will allow parliament to work hastily to meet the standards necessary for the country's entry into the EU. This law did not deal with procedures and we stressed that the insistence that the law does not contain procedures is because the procedures are subject to the Rules of Procedure. That is why we said there are procedures and procedures for the adoption of different acts are particularly laid down by the rules of procedure. These procedures, which should allow for more effective work on the adoption of European laws, will be laid down by the rules of procedure and this law is even foreseen. Of course, it's very difficult to settle here now, I think it's offensive, the MPs here talking about the trafficking of MPs insult themselves. They don't insult me. I know I'm not someone who can be bought and who's ready to sell. Those who talk about it really show the absence of personal confidence in their own credibility. I think it's a commitment that the law lays down the absence of human integrity when the MP is simply impossible and I don't think that such a request can absolutely be something that we can talk about. There is a fundamental difference in understanding here – what is multi-party life and parliamentary democracy? We don't think MPs are an army that listens to the general or the duke or whatever, that MPs are the integral figures that citizens choose because they meet the criteria, because they can communicate with people, because the citizens believe that in their name they will do the best they can. The parties are intermediaries between the people and parliament, but the party is not an army, nor an MP can be a soldier.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35111	Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the final constitutional deadline for the adoption of this law was 31 December 2008, as a deadline for the harmonisation of all existing laws and the adoption of the law that the new constitution had provided for, and the constitution had indeed laid down a law on the National Assembly. The proposing representative called for the history of Serbian parliamentism, speculatively speaking about the fact that we Serbs do not have a history of parliamentaryism and that we are not competent to find the basis for law and rules of procedure in our history. This, if there was really bad parliamentaryism in Serbia, and there was parliamentaryism, it all depended on who was in power, and this bill some continuation of the continuity of Serbian parliamentism, in one poor form and in one poor form of expression. Of course, other MPs also dealt with Serbia's parliamentary history, talking about the relationship between radicals and advances in the past century. They forgot to say that even the radicals were roasted by advances when they regained power. They forgot to say that one Radical President betrayed Serbs and fled abroad, and that there is now another who is beginning to betray Serbs and MPs here to completely undermine their morale, their reputation, their history and to file criminal charges against other Serbs for fictitious war crimes. The question arises: in the provisions of the law, are we supposed to abolish immunity for MPs who file false criminal charges, which is also a crime? I could call this law one of the rules of party parliamentarianism. To Ganalize by the members as you wrote it. The public's work is somehow being imposed as the first topic in which opposition MPs say what the ruling majority are hiding. You are again avoiding here to establish the Institute of TV transmissions session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you are only limiting that the public is allowed, except in cases where the public itself MPs on the board or at the session are excluded. We tried to re-establish the public service obligation of all Serbian citizens, to transfer the National Assembly sessions, as it seems for a long time, until the government changes, will be the only way for opposition representatives to bring their views to the public and for the public to know their views. You've introduced some kind of solemn tone into the National Assembly, introduced an anthem, a guard that will be placed, but it's not fully worked out, so questions are asked, if an anthem is performed when the president's oath is taken, does that mean that he will speak while anthem is played, or an anthem will be before taking the oath or after taking the oath? If the guard stands at the beginning of the first session of the National Assembly, do the representatives of the guard get married as soon as the first session begins? This means, then, because you have foretold the oath of the Messengers of the people, that neither the guard nor the anthem shall be when the messengers swear an oath. If we were to make a law on the National Assembly, then we should have predicted when the anthem and the guard stood before the MPs and carried out themselves, not before the President of the Republic and before the Government, who takes oaths here. It can even be regulated by another law, a law on the use of solemn units, an anthem law that you have also foreseen here. Now let's see this article on the oath of MPs. The National Assembly is the most legislative body and the highest representative home of the people. If you are talking about the continuity of parliamentaryism in Serbia, you could come from the national choirs that decided on behalf of the people, and then when it grew to the size of the national choirs, citizens or people, or the people elected the representatives who represented them, they made part of them here in this assembly, because they cannot sit here eight million citizens. Sit 250 by the Constitution. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, takes an oath before this National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly is being held by judges, I think prosecutors. Who does the National Assembly swear to? In front of God? In front of the church? In front of the President of the Republic? In front of the President of the Constitutional Court? Which would happen before the President of the Constitutional Court, when we preserve constitutionality and legality under this law on the National Assembly. Who is he above us whom we swear, when we are a people? The people do not swear to anyone and do not humiliate the citizens of Serbia who elect 250 MPs, that these MPs to some new force, unidentified, because you did not say who the oaths are before, take the oath. It's not just whether we're sworn or not, it's that we appreciate being the most representative body. Of us higher representative bodies that the people do not have. College of the National Assembly, this is a story for little children. What does the National Assembly College mean? The advisory body of the president of the National Assembly? It replaces these so far consultations of the National Assembly presidents with the heads of the parliamentary groups. How does the college decide? Are we voting on a college? Can we at the college vote the President of the Assembly and set up a agenda, a draft agenda? If we can, why didn't you write it? If we can't, what are we meeting for? To be photographed by TV cameras, how is it just like in something consensual and co-operated by the opposition with power? The opposition wants to co-operate with power on issues that are important to Serbia, not on issues that are important to power. The opposition is in the interest of Serbian citizens realizing that the government is doing its job badly and that the opposition has no involvement in this. We proposed an amendment to delete it, it doesn't even have the status of the working body, because there's something on the working bodies that's being discussed, it's being voted, it's being decided. He doesn't decide anything at college. In article 44, you provided that MPs who had suspended their term of office before the time they were elected do not have the right to be entitled to six months on salaries or one more than six months, if that is a condition for retirement, if they are sentenced by a judicial decision to an unconditional prison sentence of at least six months. There is another constitutional basis by which an MP should not be entitled to those six months, which is a ban on the work of a political party from whose list he was elected. You should have taken care of that. If there are truly terrible conditions for one party to be banned, then its MPs cannot have another six months' salary. If their term of office is taken by the power of the Constitution and the law, then they have no privileges and rights. Then he broke the law. Whoever broke the law has no right to privileges. Then, in article 45, you did not foresee the situation of Article 37, which is being attacked a lot here, which should clearly define the constitutional definition that the MP freely has his mandate. You should have seen here, since that third position is not quite clear and clear, and it reads "in the case of the position of the 2nd member, the reasons for the termination of the term of office shall be notified to the President of the National Assembly". Who informs the President of the National Assembly of the reasons for the termination of the term of office? You can have an election commission, you can have a MP, but you're not getting any notice. In the case referred to in Article 37, the MP should inform the President of the National Assembly. He can't inform the president of the National Assembly that someone needs to stop the mandate because he has his will. Whoever has his will, he informs the President of the Assembly what his will is. No one can interpret someone else's will, and that would make things perfectly clear. Article 46 speaks of the duties of Members of Parliament. What is the penalty if an MP fails to fulfil his duties? If you prescribe certain duties, you must see what you will do if you do not fulfil your duties. There are senseless norms here. You are in law introducing that an MP should address other MPs with respect and dignity, in law. That's why I'm saying this is the rules of procedure of a party parliament. After all, 80% of the provisions of a peaceful soul could have been an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. It's business stuff. But in order for the law to look a little bigger, a little bit bigger, a little more serious, to turn out to be why we're 14 months behind in passing our laws, you had to make at least 70 members of the law. How did you come up with a constitutional provision that, in the event of the disbanding of the National Assembly, the congregation only performs ongoing or urgent tasks? You have classified them in four points: solving mandate-immunity issues, achieving international co-operation in accordance with this law, certain cases of settlement of material-status issues, and if they are related to a legal deadline or the needs of the state. Under this "state needs" means the government's request to hold a session with some agenda. Since the government is running a state policy and it can always convince us that this is what the needs of the state are. If a parliament is disbanded, MPs have a mandate, it can indeed meet to deal with current or urgent affairs. Current jobs are status issues and mandate-immunity issues. Emergency business is not the kind of business that requires the need of a state, since we do not know who will determine what the need for a state is to meet a disbanded National Assembly. So, people who can no longer decide their votes on fate in many cases, but only in strictly certain, exceptional cases, meet because this requires the need of the state. Of course it's hidden that it can meet whenever you want, or whenever it's your will. In Article 62, this is the international co-operation of the National Assembly, the final position – the composition of permanent delegations shall be determined by the National Assembly, and the composition of other delegations and objectives and tasks of the National Assembly delegation shall be determined by the President of the National Assembly or by the committee responsible of the National Assembly. Will it be the president of the National Assembly of the SPS and the chairman of the DS Committee to determine what a member of the SNS delegation, of the DSS or of any opposition party will do, what are his goals, what is his mission there? You know that in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, MPs do not have an imperative mandate in the European Parliament, nor from a political party whose lists have been selected, nor from a group of political parties to which their party belongs, nor from the state they represent. The state cannot give an order to its representatives in international institutions unless they are officials or officials. So, elected representatives of the nation of states cannot give a warrant to behave, what to say, what goals to represent and what tasks to carry out. They go there to promote their ideas, ideas they fight for in Serbia. These are very often not ideas of the ruling coalition. There are ideas why you are running away from meetings with us, about which we could all have common views, that you are your views, that you are the defenders of the state, that you are defenders of prosperity and integrity, that you are the only one who would be able to introduce Serbia into the EU, and everything else is not a topic of co-operation between the authorities and the opposition. What's the theme of co-operation is you're avoiding, and you're trying to get us into some common frame, a common framework in which we have to differ. So, do not expect the MP from the SNS, as a member of some delegation or some working body, to represent the objectives and tasks of this hour, Mr Micunović or Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, even if it says so in the law that you are passing. After all, there are no criminal provisions if the MP does not comply with that provision of the law. We've come to fund the National Assembly. There are several painful points, our MPs will talk more about it. Just to point out that it seems to me that you left the president of the National Assembly an anthem and a guard and one senseless right to agree when the government suspends the funding of the National Assembly, everything else is Mr. Secretary-General. The secretary-general proposes a budget, the secretary-general implements the budget, signs budget implementation. There are more provisions here for the secretary general than for the president of the National Assembly. That should have been taken care of. If the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, all of this you have written about the Secretary-General, except that the MP asks him how to provide the building, which is also not good, and besides the organisation of the service, it's all the job of the president of the National Assembly. If he wants to accept it, he will, and if he won't, choose a new president of the National Assembly. It is unacceptable for the secretary general to represent and represent the National Assembly in the National Assembly budget, so that is the only reason why we are passing the law, only because of this independent funding, that Mladjan Dinkic cannot say – the assembly will not receive four months' salary, has not passed any law, as he spoke when he was the finance minister. Don't let that happen to us again. What's he gonna say now - you can't get paid? The president of the National Assembly agrees and we don't get paid. Maybe some of you can live without pay, maybe you have other sources of funding, and I have some additional sources of funding. I'd look at that MP group where they get who was hanging out with Saric, if you'd like. First clean up at your house. So maybe you can go through public enterprises, boards of directors, local self-government, where you're mass-opening taps and spending your budgets. There are international MPs who don't want the government to blackmail them by not having any receipts. Since the opposition can't blackmail us, they're blackmailing you. Whenever the government is placed above the National Assembly, I am pleased because it stands above you who are the ruling majority. There's nothing I can do for us. We're above them. We don't listen to them, we don't fulfill their orders. You're the ones whose people will remember what's going on in Serbia right now, you're going to get an anathema. You are commanded by ministers. By this law, you've only further identified the ministers in Brussels, turned them into a democratic shoreland, into that you 126 will decide that they can command you and nothing else. That's why I don't think this law deserves SNS support. That's why I think you should read our amendments, get to know them, partially remove shortcomings, some of them from our discussions, as technical. We really need to comply with some of the provisions of the law. That's why I wish we could vote for the Law on the National Assembly. Yet somehow we see it as our law. It's about us. It's not about some of the others, that we're acting quite ambivalently. If that law is the law of the National Assembly, we can also vote for it. If there's a government act through the National Assembly, go ahead, get yourself confused. We don't belong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35113	The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35114	The Honorable Chairman, I again feel obliged to point out the things that have been brought out here that do not stand. First, there is no law on the National Assembly on constitutional terms. Therefore, there is no time limit for the adoption of laws on the National Assembly in any member of the Law implementing the Constitution, and it is very precise in which terms which laws are harmonised and the laws are passed. For, it may be a mistake, but the Law on the National Assembly has been dropped from any set of deadlines, so it doesn't mean we shouldn't have done this before. I'm perfectly in agreement here that it would have been good if we'd done it sooner, but we haven't broken any constitutional deadline. It does not stand for the fact that this law restricts the right to make public through public transmissions. It doesn't stand anywhere in this law. I find it very interesting how such a conclusion is drawn from what is written in this law. This is what we're talking about, creating conditions for direct TV transmissions. Perhaps if an expression is not firm and binding enough, it can be talked about strengthening the terminology, but no one had any intention whatsoever, hidden, nor was it in any way in this text of the law trying to avoid something that he thinks is the fluid we fought against and that we want to save for the future. What is the insistence on establishing the procedure for the use of an anthem, flag, guard, etc., is simply that it is not the matter of the law and that, as well as the durge procedures, which we will establish for other proceedings, it will also be established by the Rules of Procedure and we simply think that it does not belong to the legal matter. A question has been asked, before whom do the messengers swear an oath, and is the Messenger a people? There's a fundamentally different understanding of what we are, what we're not. The holders of sovereignty are citizens of Serbia. They transfer part of their sovereignty to their elected representatives, who do business on their behalf. But, say, we are not a people, it sounds at least, except it's incorrect, it's a little messianic. We are not a people, we are responsible to the people, and we are representatives of the people who do their work in their interest. In that sense, I think the public oath is to swear an oath to the citizens of Serbia and it cannot be disputed. The finding that a college is a story for small children might be. All I know is that in all parliaments of the world, there is a need for both authorities and opposition to agree, to create a common plan, to try to bring together some kind of work dynamics and the way it will work and that many parliaments have different forms of some collective bodies that meet for it. What we want to achieve by doing so is institutionalising mutual bargaining, not voting. That is why the system is not developed as decision-making is made and how it is revoted. It is our intention to create an instrument legally that will open the possibility of negotiating within parliament between the authorities and the opposition. If someone isn't interested in it, it doesn't mean that the law doesn't need us to open up that possibility. The proposal to include in the law that the end of the political party ends the mandate of the MP is contrary to another type of pledge. If you are in favour of your right to MPs whether to make your mandate available to the party or not, then the termination of becoming a political party also cannot be made available freely by an MP with his mandate to put him in a position to automatically end his term of office. So it's in contradiction with those two attitudes and those two positions. I'm sorry to bother you that the law obliges you to respect each other. I hope that's the obstacle that every MP will be able to skip.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35115	Right to the replicas. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic asked for a replica of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, and MP Tomislav Nikolic echoed the presentation of a representative of Nada Kolundzija's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Chetnik Duke who spoke before Mrs. Hope Kolundzier, spoke offensively about the SRS parliamentary group. He talked about treason and talked about parliamentary history. As far as treason is concerned, I do admit that man is an expert and knows more about it than I do. As far as parliamentary history is concerned, I really don't know when the radicals burned the advances and turned them to skewers. If that did happen, the question arises – how did the previous speaker of the 1990s find himself in the People's Radical Party, who bears the same name as the party that allegedly burned those same advances at the end of the 19th century? As for the criminal charges filed against that Serb, I must say that the deputy Chetnik Duke in that newly formed party has said that he is ashamed of the crimes committed on behalf of the Serb people in Srebrenica. Since no crime was committed on behalf of any nation, but was committed by individuals with the name and last name, the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, in order to clear the Serbian name and save the state of Serbia and the entire Serbian people from the mark of criminals, filed a criminal charges against a man suspected of killing bound people, innocent, unarmed in Zvornik. It's the same Serb who was the deputy commander of another Serb who tied Serbs to the bandits in Erdu, forced them to bark like dogs and people had to carry stone plates in that same Erdut of about 10 or 20 kilos. As a result, people have experienced a lasting disorder of their health. It would be good, Mrs. Comic, that since you are already talking about the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of the MPs, to make sure that those sitting in this National Assembly do not even mention people who are not in a position to answer at this time, and we Serbian radicals and all Serbian citizens hope that they will still be able to sit in the National Assembly and look directly into their eyes with these experts on roasting and treason.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35117	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35118	First of all, I'd like to look back on the serious discussion that the billmaker had, although she did turn a little bit into inconclusive, I guess, in the lack of arguments. So you should read the Constitution, Mrs. Kolundjia. The ban on the political party automatically ends the mandate of the MP elected on the list of the political party, automatically. It's just a question of whether he should have privileges if he is really banned from the party because the Constitutional Court has assessed that conditions have been met. You know what the conditions are and these are ideas that neither you nor I are fighting for. It's racial and religious intolerance, it's an armed rebellion, it's a variety of non-political struggles that don't like political parties. As far as the college is concerned, only if you were to determine when the college's sessions are scheduled, who is to schedule them, could a third of the college members schedule a session, could a third of the college members include some kind of proposal in the draft agenda? So I could say there's a reason and a reason to form a college. Otherwise, in case you've defined the college, there's really no basis. It remains now, just as by law, the good will of the President of the Assembly or his desire to present themselves to the public as a Democrats, to gather ten cameras and call on the heads of parliament clubs to discuss something important with them, and that agreement there never means that it will be voted here, as the president can always say, the parliamentary majority has decided differently from the college. If you're talking about the Messiah, Mrs. Kolundjia, look at your president, he's posing as a messiah, and this is the National Assembly. The National Assembly is not an individual and is not a messiah. It is the right itself, as well as the right to manage the church, as well as the right to govern our lives, to assume only Boris Tadic. Perhaps, as a provision in the Rules of Procedure on this respect, an obligation should also be introduced to wipe the milk off the mouth when entering the National Assembly, since some here are really acting like children. There were denuants in the Serbian people. The Germans announced a prize, giving the neighbour an illegal in Belgrade, and after six months, abolished, with so many deuncents reported that they could not respond to all the applications. So it's called denunciation. You're working with those you said were the extended hand of the UN tribunal. At this time, you filed criminal charges with the UN tribunal. Maybe it's a way for you to stay, but you stay like that lion who was once a powerful emperor, and now he's just obsessing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35119	Three minutes. Thank you. You have no right to a replica, the exchange of replicas is over. National MP Đuro Peric, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35120	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the constitutional obligation of the National Assembly to, as the most representative body and institution of the Constitutional and Legislative Authority, pass a law on the National Assembly, and that all issues of importance be governed by the law to exercise its jurisdiction and to act as Members of Parliament. Although for objective and subjective reasons, he is late for law-making, he is ahead of us, and I hope we adopt him. I stress that it is very important that this law fully determines the position, jurisdiction, organisation and manner of work and decision-making of the National Assembly; the position, right and duty of the MPs, the relationship of the National Assembly with other state bodies, international co-operation of the National Assembly, the financing of the National Assembly, the management of the property used by the National Assembly, emblems, symbols and markings of the National Assembly, as well as the position of the professional service of the National Assembly. It is very important to point out that the adoption of this law discusses and more concretely implements the principle of dividing the authority into legislative, executive and judicial, whose mutual relationship is based on balance and mutual control. Finally, the National Assembly brings to an equal constitutional position the authorities of the executive and judicial authorities of which special laws have already been passed. Perhaps we should have been the first to bring this, but it is true that the Constitution established the division of the government, the principle of the division of power, but the special laws of this principle are just being elaborated, which is the complete content of this relationship of the division of power, because it is now accurate and precise in detail that relationship. This law, which is very significant, elaborate and tax-based, determines what the National Assembly is doing as the institution of constitutional and legislative authority, its electoral, control and representative functions. As regards the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government, Article 58 provides that the Government, at the request of the National Assembly, shall report on its work at least once a year. It seems better that the government, without the request of the National Assembly, submits an annual report on its work. It is also important that the government connects, although it has been an obligation so far, but now more precisely, that its members must attend meetings of the Assembly, as well as committees. So far, the practice has been pretty bad. Special attention deserves a chapter on the funding of the National Assembly. I think it's one very important thing. The National Assembly decides on its own and has the resources for the work of the National Assembly or the Assembly budget. It is very important that the government cannot suspend, delay, or limit the implementation of the assembly budget without the agreement of the National Assembly president. I think we should also have dropped it to say more precisely when the president of the National Assembly can possibly give consent, because here he says without the agreement of the President of the Assembly, this operation cannot be carried out by the government. There is no less significance in the process of preparing the draft general budget. I think it is an additional element that speaks of the Assembly's relationship to budgetary issues now being a little more concrete and more precisely worked out through the procedure that the Secretary-General of the Assembly prepares this proposal and gives it to the relevant committee of the Assembly, which determines the proposal and delivers it to the Ministry of Finance for its opinion. There is some consensus, if consensus is reached, the Assembly's competent board determines the assembly budget, which the Ministry of Finance without amendments, which is very important, includes in the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, and also without amendments to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, unless consensus is reached, which could happen between the Ministry of Finance and the draft general budget, without amendments, the draft budget is collectively included in the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is very important. This process is precisely providing for the financial independence of the National Assembly, which includes our National Assembly in the order of a number of European countries that have an independent financial availability by means of a budget. As the Assembly, we have had a series of these meetings and discussions organised in various places both in the country and abroad about this problem of funding the Assembly and these experiences that exist in these many countries in Europe, which are different, however, are not identical everywhere, but I think we have come close to the good part of these principles that have been established in these countries that have done so so far. Finally, I would like to say that during the preparation of this law, the PUPS parliamentary group had a dozen objections to the texts that appeared at the time, and we delivered these remarks to the Assembly Commission that prepared the bill. All our proposals have been accepted by the commission, except for one that is more and more formal, so by taking it all in general, the PUPS parliamentary group is defined as voting for this bill in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35121	The word has been made by the People's MP Balint Pastor, a group of minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35122	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the Group of Minority has signed a proposal to put this bill on the agenda of the National Assembly. We believe that this law was to be passed by the end of 2008. We look forward to finally discussing the proposal made by the working group headed by Mr. Nikola Novakovic, vice-president of the National Assembly. In the light of the bill's proposal, the National Assembly, by adopting this law, will put itself in an equal constitutional position with the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, etc. The truth is, it is true that parliament, the National Assembly, is the only body whose work is not regulated by a special law. There is a law on the President of the Republic, there is a Law on Government, on the Constitutional Court, even on ministries, but there is no law on the National Assembly. At the same time, in recent days we have been listening and reading in the newspaper from representatives of the ruling parties that parliament is the most significant institution in the state, which is independent of other branches of government, that this kind of ceremony is meant to be carried out by an anthem, by a solemn guard, etc., in a symbolic way shows the importance, i.e. the importance of an institution such as parliament that is elected by citizens. Today we heard from the promoter's representatives that the strong National Assembly is the supposition of a democratic society and that's all true, that's how it should be, but unfortunately it hasn't been that way in the last few years, although we haven't been able to get that impression since SVM became a parliamentary party again three years ago. We did not get the impression that parliament is the most important institution and in practice decision-making. We didn't get the impression that the National Assembly was really controlling the government's work, and that's our fault, that's the fault of the National Assembly, especially those who make up the ruling coalition. That has to change right away. This law creates a solid basis for it, but things will not change overnight only because of the adoption of laws on the National Assembly. However, we will, of course, support the draft law on the National Assembly, and I hope that we will do everything in the interest of the National Assembly and in practice being independent both in institutional and financial terms, above all, in relation to the executive power, in relation to the Government and the President of the Republic. We adopted more than 300 laws last year, which could be considered a venture, which could be considered a good result, but at the same time we must pay attention to what we do, about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the EU, or the European Commission, which, in its report last year, stated that the National Assembly and its committees still do not have enough qualified staff, that the committees are weak, that their work is not proactive. It was continued with the practice of passing laws by emergency procedure. The institutional capacity of parliament is small. Parliament is not using its powers to control the executive authority, and constitutional provisions that give parties control over MPs' mandates continue to hold back the work and reform of the legislative body. This was a quote from last year's European Commission report, and we can see from this report that we still need to do a lot of things in the interest of the National Assembly being the most important authority in the country, both institutionally and financially independent. The bill defines the responsibilities of the National Assembly, in addition to the legislative function, and the representative, and the electoral and control functions of the National Assembly. But the question should be asked whether the National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia, as it says in the Constitution of our country, or is it considered a necessary evil? I have gained the impression in recent years that very often Parliament is seen as a necessary evil, people's MPs as people who beat up empty straw, who deal with certain things that could be resolved by a brief procedure, that is, for a short period of time, and it certainly is not good for democracy in the Republic of Serbia. Such assessments should be eliminated. That's the kind of thinking we need to change. Of course, no one among us considers random attacks in the media against the National Assembly, no one considers attacks against the MPs by chance. We have reports in certain months about how the Assembly spends money. It is, first of all, in those months when the Assembly is on a break or when it is necessary to distract itself from other problems. That's what we're guilty of, the parties to the parliamentary majority. It just can't be allowed. The integrity and parliament should be safeguarded, and the MPs and all of us together should do everything in the interest of the National Assembly being independent and not be seen as a necessary evil that exists, but everything is settled at sessions, for example. Government. So the goal should be one institution that is independent in both institutional and financial terms, and we should deal with some challenges. One challenge is insufficient parliamentary control over the work of the executive government, and another is to control the mandates of MPs by political parties. For months, we have heard of the fact that only one party does not have its own blanco resignation in the National Assembly. I'll say it's LDP and that's for sure. I don't think they'd say that if it wasn't true, but there are other parties who also don't have their own blank resignations. For example, all parties forming the Group of Minorities of Parliament, SVM, the Bosniak coalition for the European Sandzak, the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. We believe that this is a model to be approached, because the Assembly cannot be independent in an institutional sense when an MP can only be punished for not voting in favour of a particular bill. He could lose his mandate in practice because he didn't vote at will, say, a minister or a party chief. It's just not natural. It is an even less natural fact, i.e. the situation where the blank resignations of the MPs are held not by a party to which certain MPs belong, but by some other parties with whom the party went to the elections. When you have such a situation, then you also have a situation to bring an anti-constitutional budget to Vojvodina and, for example, MPs from Vojvodina and the authentic party from Vojvodina are unfortunately unable to vote for our proposal, to stay on this case from December of last year, which we proposed to bring into line with the Constitution draft budget bill for 2010. When you have such a situation, then it is unrealistic to expect Parliament to be an independent body in institutional terms, to really be the most representative body, the most legislative body as the National Assembly, and that, just to quote one pre-election phrase or slogan, "only depends on us". This depends on the MPs, depending on the parliamentary parties, it depends on us when we say – here, we want to represent the interests of citizens, we do not want to represent any other parties on whose lists we have entered, for example, the National Assembly. The Law on the National Assembly cannot be answered by this problem. This depends not on any legal act, not on any law, but depends on political culture and depends on how we view our own role as MPs. As for the funding of the National Assembly, it is very good that the National Assembly will be much more able to influence its own budget. But to return to the previous issue, to the previous issue, and here I can say that even so far, MPs could have tabled an amendment to the positions of the National Assembly in the draft budget, but I don't remember the last three years that any MP of the ruling majority, including us, has tabled an amendment to the positions of the National Assembly in the budget. Regardless of the budget of the National Assembly in 2007, there were 3.6 billion dinars, and this year there are billions and 600 million dinars. The budget of the Assembly was reduced by just over two billion dinars in just three years and none of the MPs objected. We had some other amendments. We are one small parliamentary group, we have struck under the belt by demanding the alignment of the draft budget with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but some other MPs could have put the amendment into the positions of the National Assembly, to improve funding, the way in which the National Assembly was financed. I will remind you all that we agreed in 2007 that the National Assembly financed the translation of adopted laws, the most significant and most important, into the languages of national minorities. For the last two years, the project has stopped because it has been drastically reduced by the budget of the National Assembly and we have an understanding of it, but we hope it will continue with this very positive practice after two years, as of next year, when the National Assembly will be able to greatly influence the figures of its own budget. As far as the college is concerned, we consider the college to be an extremely important organ. Once again, it will show in practice how much "authority" the college will have in planning sessions, in presenting the National Assembly, in calling the National Assembly meetings, and here I would like to point out one problem regarding the establishment of a draft agenda for the National Assembly, such as for the previous three years. It is a very bad practice that MPs and heads of parliamentary groups of ruling coalitions practically from newspapers can find out with which agenda the session is called. This is not the fault of the president of the National Assembly, it has been so in the previous meeting, but we hope that this will be improved by the formation of the college, where the president of the Assembly, vice presidents and heads of parliament will find the place and we will jointly define the proposals for the agenda. Because it's not normal for that self-censorship to work in this way, in the sense that I remember in the last three years of all the legal proposal that came on the agenda, and whose proposal was not the government. It is simply not normal, so it does not work in any parliament in the region and in Europe, and we should fight for the MPs' proposals, regardless of whether it is the opposition or the parties of the ruling majority, to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly and to determine for ourselves when we will discuss the proposals coming from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of colleges and planning the work of the National Assembly, I'll show you a table on how it works in parliamentary democracies. Here you can see the work plan of the Hungarian parliament, but it does not work that way in the Hungarian Parliament alone, it works in Slovenia and in some other countries and parliaments in the region. Here you can see exactly four months in advance, for a full regular session, for example, for 2009 regular autumn session, when the National Assembly will have plenary sessions, when committees will work, when the days will be decided, when MPs will receive citizens, when questions will be asked to the government, and we are very far from it. We found out yesterday what we're going to discuss at the beginning of next week and it has to change. That depends on the deal. This again depends solely on ourselves, it depends neither on the government nor on any minister, and I hope that we find strength, that there will be an agreement, that there will be no self-censorship, and that we will manage to fight to ensure that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works in this way. We are pleased to see that the position and competence of the board will be strengthened, which will shift the focus of work to committees, but I personally disagree, we have not submitted the amendment, but I must say that I personally disagree with the Institute of Vice-Presidents of the Committee because the committees are of professional nature. I can't imagine myself, for example, being a member or a deputy member of the Health Committee. This then loses all meaning and therefore we believe that MPs should come to committee meetings more zealously and that this must possibly be worked out by the Rules of Procedure, if we are just insisting on the deputy board members. We will support this law because we believe that it provides a solid basis for Parliament's institutional and financial independence, but I hope, once again, that both MPs will view themselves and their function as those who perform the most significant function in this country, which is either a function or a task or a duty of a MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35123	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35124	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, rarely when I sit in continuity for three hours here in the Assembly during our session, and today I did so primarily because I tried to pass an argument that we ourselves failed to find in the draft of this law to support it. In other situations, representatives of parliamentary groups usually express their political views, and then go to do other congregation or party affairs, and you all know it very well. What is the great defeat first of all of the ruling coalition here in the assembly today? The fact is, one positive insistence is actually unimaginable by this bill. Efforts to improve the work of the Assembly, and above all to restore or build the ultimate credibility needed for the smooth work of such an important institution is pre-determined to failure. We began to build parliamentary democracy in 89 and the previous 20 years, the country's most important legislative body, the institution that has passed hundreds and thousands of laws, decisions, declarations, resolutions, works itself unregulated by law. That speaks enough about the low level of political culture in our society. That's why this was an important step. We've been waiting for him for three years. During those three years, it was mostly public discussion of nonsense, and it neglected the essence. This law is in the shadow of the stupidity and insinuation that tried to represent us as people who would retire with three unfinished parliamentary mandates. This law is in the shadow of everything that happens daily in the congregation itself, which is trying to regulate itself by law. For us, the key question is freedom. That's why today, by discussing the Law on the Assembly, we don't need to talk about ourselves. All of them, from the speaker of parliament, were wrong through the legislator and the representative of the law, to those who have explained the law so far. We don't regulate ourselves by this law, but by this law we establish standards and ideals that need to change our society. Serbia needs economic freedom, media freedom, cultural freedom, religious freedom, sexual freedom, and above all political freedom, and it is not in this law. We are liberal Democrats, not because we have sought a handsome name for ourselves but because we have developed politically, each of us individually in our lives, so from the civil parties we have found ourselves in LDP. I will tell the promoters that the 15th-century Liberal Democrats are leading the fight against a controlled MP. They won the 17th century. How can we as an LDP support the Law on the Assembly that ignores the basics of modern democracy that is necessary for our society? Fiji, Nigeria, Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Venezuela, all these are countries where the freedom of MPs is partly limited, but no one has been as repressive as our country. It's our mutual humiliation. We, Mrs. Kolundjia, can represent ourselves with integral personalities, as you said, to persons who do not see themselves as party soldiers, subjects of a duke and general. You're right about that. I personally know that this is the position of the majority here in parliament, but our MPs are not like that. That's what the problem is. If we restrict our freedom here in the Assembly by this law, how can we be sure that tomorrow the employer of a young girl will not offer a document in which she gives up her job in advance, and by the way commit her to a clause by which she cannot remain in her second condition for the next five years? What rules do we establish in Serbia when we do not have the strength to give Parliament and democracy the necessary freedom? It's not just phrases. We needed law, but the Law on the Assembly does not regulate our relationship with the President of the Republic, our relationship with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our relationship with other state institutions, let's say the Constitutional Court. It'll all be arranged by the Rules of Procedure. It's a provision of this law. What are our experiences so far? What did the Serbian Parliament look like when the Rules of Procedure regulated our relationship with the government? Ignoring, humiliating, bringing the parliamentary majority to the voting machine. You can't say that procedures are governed by laws, Mrs. Kolundjia, and that's exactly what you did. We adopted a law here that prescribed a tire pattern and a date for changing wheels on cars in Serbia until 15 November with this pattern, and from 15 November to 1 March with a second pattern. If we were able to deal with points in Serbia, then I think we were obliged to regulate our relationship with the most important institutions in society, because it is the need of both the Assembly and those institutions themselves. What is it that we cannot accept? The idea that the reputation of the congregation can be built on theatre. It is not because the Guard Orchestra will play in front of parliament. This theatreism stems from our difference compared to that guard orchestra. None of us need that. The reputation of this congregation can only be produced by the fact that this society within us, even when we disagree, will recognize people who at all times do their best to make life in this country better. Which of the MPs here is willing to say that they will feel comfortable when the recruits line up in front of him, when we know that the president of the state is uncomfortable when due to the diplomatic protocol he has to submit a report or receive a report in the presence of a foreign official? I was Deputy Prime Minister, and I had nothing more difficult than to line up a guard that I should address because I was visited by a vice-president from an environment or from Europe. If we want to build the reputation of this congregation, then we will not do so by introducing the trumpet into the congregation. That's why we wrote an amendment to that article 14, in which we ask that, if something like that is already done, it is done in moments that are important to the whole society, and you will all admit that ending or starting a regular session is not something like that. The question of our oath – what does it mean? From what time does this kind of practice that sets before people a challenge in which they publicly commit to doing their job responsibly? It is also here in Serbia for parliament inappropriate. The theatre may be more acceptable in some other environments. It's just as foreign as if we were to introduce now the home of lords in Serbia. We still don't have our Magna Carta, the charter of freedom that the English adopted 800 years ago. I don't think any of us recognize each other either. We're talking about these mandates. How did the representative and member of the parliamentary majority Ferzo Celovic feel when he learned that he had been removed at the House's door? That's what happened because it was a political interest. What do we say about each other when we treat each other like that? If we don't trust ourselves and if we have this kind of suspicion, then how can we expect people who need to believe in us to do it with the feeling that they're not wrong, because we've converted resignations to the public? Can some double-crossed voter now activate our resignation? They don't have a right to do that. It's not courage, it's political brains. That's why I think it took more for the kind of decision they're asking us to make, the institutions that we need to respect because we often call for their decisions ourselves. The recommendations of the Venice Commission are unequivocal and it's not a commission that wastes time in a Renaissance town. It's a committee of the Council of Europe for Democracy through law. I have a report from that commission here. It's very large. Serbia is precedentd. In Venezuela, it is possible to relocate MPs. It can be done by citizens. The moment more signatures are collected for his shift than the number of citizens who vote for him, he will be removed. In Pakistan, it is possible to replace MPs if his party is banned in court or his work is assessed as criminal. There is no country in Europe where running from party to party is solved in such an unworthy way. The ruling majority could offer us a political agreement on which it rests, for example, Spanish democracy, an agreement that binds all parties to the extent that they are willing to respect the given word. The moment the agreement was made in the Spanish parliament, it was signed by 16 parliamentary parties. The practice of running from one party to another has been interrupted. What happened in the past in Serbia doesn't make us any worse than any other country establishing democracy, 40% of the Czech parliament practically changed its membership in the party and the parliamentary club in the second session. This was happening in Poland, Croatia, it was happening in Ukraine, there 300 out of 400 MPs at one point changed the side, but even Ukraine had the strength to free MPs, to solve the problem in another way. We still don't have the strength to do that, and I don't think that's a bad thing, and we can't deal with it. I don't think we're special because none of our MPs have enveloped resignations, I think we're special because we're really in favour of something like that, because now we see the need in others for that kind of freedom. The most radical executioner of democratic freedom in parliament was Tomislav Nikolic, who is not here. Most of his parliamentary mandates were taken away as chairman of the Administrative Committee and a representative of the Radicals. He led the Administrative Committee, which in one session seized the mandates of the majority MPs who went to the opposition party and protected the mandates of opposition MPs who went to the parliamentary majority and for that was supported by the Constitutional Court. And possibly the President of the Republic, although he is not formally in charge of it politically, perhaps his party, but I think his party was a victim back then. Ambassador Djokovic has moved to the DS, I think, most of it, from the DSS. But if Nikolic has changed I think we have a lot of reasons for optimism and that it is necessary to free the entire parliament. I believe in the force of freedom, and if there is not enough understanding in the parliamentary majority that wants Serbia to Europeanise, then we have a problem, because Europe is resting on those values. We passed an anti-constitutional Government Act, which was in July 2008, and we all know that very well. That's what it had to do then. If the Constitution had not respected itself before, then the argument that at that very moment it did not have to change in a political sense could have been acceptable. But today we have a Deputy Prime Minister, which is an unconstitutional category, we have the first Deputy Prime Minister, we have an unconstitutional category, we have the President of the Republic who is the President of the Party, it's not a democratic practice, we now have the law on the Assembly which is deeply anti-European and anti-democratic, and we do all this on behalf of the democratic development of our country. We tried to help you by writing these few amendments. First amendment to this cartoon article 14, which brings us into a position that we have to go through guard decks, even though none of us want to. Let the Guard be there when the President of the Republic comes, let it really be in some special situation, at the time of national holidays, when the flags are raised in front of the Assembly, but there is no need to bring us into such an unnatural position as this could happen if a member of the law were to be adopted in unchanged form. We ask that article 37 be deleted and MPs freed from this unnatural relationship with the party. That's not what he's saying, and that's where all the alleged theorists and experts in our democratic order are wrong about the depetism of our leaders, but about the Oriental despotism of the subjection that is rooted in us. We're not the ones who strayed into parties. We know why we are in the DS, in the Union of Duke Hungarians, in the SPS, in the DSS, why we are advanced, why we are radical, we do not need a tutor to remind us that the owner of our lives through the control of our mandate here in the Assembly. That's what he says about us, not about party leaders. What are we doing here in the congregation if we're not sure what ideas we represent? We ask that this article be deleted, and we offer parties in the Assembly a political agreement, a political agreement that each of us needs to respect, an agreement that will guarantee each other that we will not build our interest on the damage we can do to the competition, but on ambition to do something better than the competition for the people who live in this country. I'm sure there's enough potential in 250 MPs in this assembly for one such agreement, I'm absolutely sure of something like that, and I don't doubt it. We ask that this pointless article be changed by amendment 46, that it be erased, of these harmful consequences that the MP will bear if he does not give the quorum three days. First, I want to remind you that the real picture of each and every one of us is very different from the one that was created in public. You know very well that almost every official of the state administration has more generous material receipts and works in a more comfortable position than we do here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35125	Excuse me, MP, the People's Messenger is sick, let them help her out of the O.R. I'm setting a 15-minute break. We'll continue work at 1340 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35126	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can continue our work. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has two minutes left, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35127	I hope our colleague will be okay in the end. This is something that actually confirms everything that I said describing our position here in the congregation and I'm sorry that it happened, but I think we need to talk about that too. We have submitted an amendment to Article 46 because we believe it makes no sense by law to prescribe a norm that cannot be sanctioned unless it is respected. In fact, it's like we're here for a job. And what would life look like in the Serbian Parliament if the head of the parliamentary group, for example, had another job, so if all the leaders of the opposition, because the law forced them to do such a thing, gave up their jobs in the Assembly and went to someone else? Then they would be people who are employed in one place, and work on another or people whose congregation is elsewhere, and they would have to be the first. We suggest that this member be deleted. For us, it is a very important member of 54 who prescribes that, if the needs of the state, committees, or the National Assembly, even though they are disbanded, they can do some work. That's inadmissible. If the Assembly is disbanded, other institutions are not disbanded, the Assembly and the Assembly disbanded in the democratic procedure, it is a time-limited period, a case of emergency or any other unforeseen circumstances, it is a case to which other institutions working in accordance with the law must respond and which should assume that part of responsibility on themselves. We believe that under the needs of the state, subjugation can always be misused. So much bad was done on behalf of the state today that we don't know what to do with that disastrous legacy. And finally, two important amendments to Article 61. We think it is necessary to strengthen the ties between the Serbian and European Parliament. That's why we suggest adding one more attitude after another, which would formalize something like that. It is not enough to say that the National Assembly is working together and has effective cooperation with other states. We want the European Parliament to be explicitly mentioned because it is in the spirit of the policy that is being led in this country. We have been running for EU membership, and we find such a thing to be normal and very useful. I think that's all I said. ) points to our great common obligation, and we as a parliamentary group will do everything possible to ensure that it is met as soon as possible. I repeat once again, without political freedom, and I repeat it first here in the Assembly, there will be no one else, and there will be no democracy without freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35128	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35129	I fully agree that the issue of freedom is the fundamental issue of every democratic society and I believe in the ideals of freedom and the possibility of society to conquer the premises of freedom. I don't believe there's an ideal society or ideal spaces of freedom, but there are social efforts that lead to larger spaces of freedom. I am fully agreed that we work together to expand that space of freedom. What might seem a little unfair to me, your line that you've been waiting for this law. I wish you'd said we were working on this law, and you didn't want to hear us. That would already be some argument. Or – we suggested something, you didn't want to respect it, but the fact that someone in the Assembly was waiting for this law shows that at least it's not in all stages, this in my opinion needs to be a joint effort, did everything to get to a better text. I absolutely don't have a single shred of intent to claim that this law is good or, God forbid, ideal. In those borders where we had to move, we tried to find the best answers to what is the ideal of Parliament's position and, on the other hand, to what are the limits we have. I understand that there are those who think that the Constitution must not be a restriction. Unfortunately, I'm not one of them, and I think the Constitution must be both a starting point and a limit in every solution. Since the Constitution is the one that actually restricts the premises of the freedom of MPs by determining that under certain conditions, the MP can, under certain law, have his mandate to entrust the political party from whose list he has been elected, it is something that has not given us the space to suspend the provisions of the Constitution by suspending this law. This law, like any other law, has no room to suspend the provisions of the Constitution and unfortunately those who think that such a provision is an insufficient space of freedom, we say – this is the most that could be done in the frameworks of the Constitution which is binding on us. I believe that political brains are needed, and I am counting on a political mind, in order to create assumptions that the political arrangements in this House are dealing with issues, whether or not we have foreseen them by law, to open areas of co-operation and share responsibilities in accordance with the rules that apply in other democratic societies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35130	Mr. Ilic, are you answering your question? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Replica? ( b) Replica. First, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35131	Mrs. Kolundjia, of course, I think the essence is actually in that clear attitude of yours to defend this law by saying that it is good or ideal. If we, by passing the Law on the Assembly, have no argument to describe it as good, why do we even bring it? Secondly, I am convinced that there is no party in the opposition, a party past the ruling coalition, which has launched as many initiatives as LDP, regardless of whether we are talking about the economy, many of them have been accepted with a delay of one year, whether we are talking about the EU, whether we are talking about Kosovo and our resolutions that have pushed state policy in a different direction, towards the change of the present. Are we talking about Srebrenica, this parliament can say that there is a resolution in it from 2007, which reacts in the way it opens up opportunities for a more normal society today. Finally, our performances also worked in the working group on this law and in the working group on the Rules of Procedure, as well as our version of the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure were handed over to the Assembly. When I say we waited, I don't think we were silent observers. I think we are faced with politics – take it or leave it, unfortunately, forced to distance ourselves from this law, because none of our arguments are respected. The only thing the controversy was really about all the time in public is not only about LDP, but also about all the other parliamentary clubs here in the Assembly, as parties that didn't participate in it. We all know that we've been shocked by the headlines that said we're fighting for our pensions, that we want to go here at ten years in the Assembly to a privileged pension of 100,000 dinars while we're looking for pensions to freeze. The comments were that for the first time we heard something like that and we didn't know it. The task force did not have the necessary political freedom to do its job quality, which is why it has been working for three years. He also worked while Oliver Dulic was president of the assembly. He worked in the previous year and a half, and as it was done, as it was possible, at this point, without any shift compared to the starting positions a year and a half or two, so since 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35132	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35133	I think it's always a matter of responsibility to what is done when a man doesn't claim that what he represents and what he's done best in the world and that he can't be exposed to criticism and that he can't be fixed if there are good reasons to fix it. In that sense, I was talking about this law. I really think that this law is good and good enough to be found in the Assembly and supported by even the majority who do not only the parliamentary majority but also the opposition. I wouldn't agree if he didn't have any progress in relation to the initial versions. Perhaps I should remind you what the initial versions of 2007 looked like, so that we can all conclude together that a significant progress has been made on particularly important issues related to parliament. Of course, everyone has reason to say, if they don't meet those criteria that I consider to be criteria that I stand for as the ultimate criterion, I don't want to vote on. It's a legitimate right, but I want to say that the political system we're building, we're building it in line with what the Constitution has given us as a framework, and we can open up the controversy of the Constitution, but I don't think that's a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35134	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on the Assembly and one of the debaters was talking about a very important matter, which is that the Assembly passed over 300 laws last year. The question arises – how many laws will the Assembly pass now after the new Law on the Assembly? How much law will we pass in this year, because the effect you boast about, 300 laws in last year, has not helped Serbia to get better. Is Serbia better to live? Are more people employed? Do we have more companies that work well? Do we have fewer folk cuisines? How does the village live? Did we build more infrastructure facilities for last year? We didn't. Last year was a disastrous year for Serbia. Therefore, all of your laws that you have passed have led us back. Gentlemen People's MPs, do these laws lead us more to democracy? No, I don't. The adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, the adoption of the law, is moving us away from democracy. We have big problems in Serbia today. Today we don't have a basic: freedom of movement. We don't have freedom of speech, freedom of political action. We don't have a free market. We don't have a free judiciary, the prosecution is dependent. Imagine one day, when a special prosecutor had to go to some court to take some case, because someone told him himself and activate it. Why? What someone turned him around and ordered him to do, and for years, he wasn't interested in that object. So we're getting further from democracy and that, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have to understand. I expected there wouldn't be any cosmetic decisions here that we're making, whether there'd be a guard deck there, here, who'd pass, who wouldn't. That is so irrelevant, but to bring something, that what is sought in the congregation, as the MPs ask as questions, is resolved to the end and answers are received. That's all that matters to us, that those laws we make are respected. But that's not what's going on in Serbia today. I asked here myself a few months ago and I was asking some awkward questions that almost cost me my life. And why is that? I ask the question again – who is Nuba Invest, who has authorized Dulic to sign a company, one tycoon in Slovenia to pass the fibers of optical cables free of charge, without tender, without anything, besides our highways and corridors of circulars? I ask the question, the investment is 25m euros to pass that optic cable right now. The project investment pays off in nine months. The annual earnings on the investment are 45m euros. Who did it without an international tender? The works are done a lot. I ask the question here, they start the work the next day. That Dulic himself ordered public enterprises to give consent, give permits and start works. What are we serving here? Are we somebody's cover? What are we doing against breaking the law, especially the law on the budget of certain ministers? Nothing. We applaud them when they come. We welcome them. They don't do us the courtesy of coming. Has anyone answered the question that has been asked here and the documentation that has been properly handed over to the state authorities - who is the one who ordered the deputy attorney general to write in the privatisation of the Zagreb Bank that Serbia simply disowns its 2.2 billion euros and is not interested in that money? Those actions have been transferred to private accounts that are coded. The numbers are given codes and everything. Who are these owners and carriers of certain codes led to 2.2 billion euros? That's the question you asked here. Nobody cares about that. We can ask whatever we want. How did the pilot die? Why did he die? We ask a question, committees ask questions. Why was one plane destroyed? Who gave the order? Two. Nobody cares about that. Everyone's smiling, you're clapping, you're enjoying yourself. We ask if we ask, and you bring here set up a guard to let us pass through the cave, to smile at them a little bit, and they, to us, to make it look nice, a nice decor to be, a people to see that something in Serbia has changed. So, gentlemen, you've passed a law here, you're giving us lectures on how it's supposed to be done, how and what. Who are we protecting here? People, citizens of Serbia. Where is this health minister to come here to pay bills in parliament? Who picked him? Someone ordered him to buy the vaccine, and the people won't take the vaccine. Then the ministers force the people, force the army, force the children, and no one will be vaccinated, they won't. No one's responsible for that. Now there's a campaign going on when it's all gone. I didn't hear anyone get that flu. I don't know if you heard it. Only the minister might have heard it somewhere. Now the question is, here we are, pushing children, kids smart, now she's dressed, and they're not going to vaccine. No army, no one. What's going on now? Only Miskovic wanted to import the vaccine to make a little money, but now nobody's saying – well, people, we took two billion to save Parliament, we took two billion dinars to save it; the global crisis, it's fine. But why are we throwing ourselves at the other side? Why waste someone's money on shovels? That's a very difficult question. That's why the head can go. Therefore, I expected that through the new Law on the Assembly we would begin to appreciate this institution more, to respect it, not only to be a cover or a mask for what a government is doing, which cannot solve thousands of its problems, one massive, too large government, and that we here blanco bring the Budget Law, give them items of undeveloped, uncleared. People do what they want. They, without our consent, owe this country three billion euros, take credit lines. Baskaras are used, scattered. No one asks – why have we passed the Budget Law? Is that what the Budget Law provides for? It's not. What did the governor say? He gave guarantees that the money would be stable. This morning, I was escorted, says -- the record growth of the euro, since the introduction of the euro, is the biggest growth of the euro. Should that governor come here once to take some account of the work of the National Bank, of his business, of his opinions, of his views? No, he's not coming, he's not interested. Is the Constitution respected? It's not respected, it's broken. Why is the Constitution being violated? Are congregation resolutions respected? No, I don't. How can EULEX in Kosovo if we have made a unanimous decision here that no one can introduce EULEX to Kosovo until certain items that were in the resolution are respected? It's been said here that there are about six points that change it. Which six dots is that? No one's informed us of it, no matter what it takes, no one's come, no one's asked, no matter what. So we can bring whatever we want. You can applaud as much as you want, but in Serbia, it's worse and worse. We are getting further from democracy, and we are further away from the EU, and they can put us in pro-forms to satisfy some of our politicians because they are very obedient, and very good, and they give a lot more and what is not required. We've brought some administrative regions here, and what's going on now? Now some new ones are being made, some new concessions are being made, it's breaking right now, it's being rewritten, it's being corrected immediately. Here we have asked a hundred and one question – what about the Cypriot money? Nobody cares about that. No one's going to discuss it. Therefore, how can we simply represent the citizens of this House when people ask us, and we have no answers to these questions or ask them, and no one answers them again. Who gave permission to enter cable TV for free, and now we approve and raise prices? Who has passed such disastrous laws, and has there ever been a report on the narcissistic privatisations that have been made? It's not. Nobody cares about that. Why were you waiting the other day for some company to be taken away? Because Miskovic was supposed to pay there because he would have been taken from the company. As soon as he paid, an hour later he was given an order to take some companies away, of course, except and return, etc. As soon as the Mouse had spoken, it was paid, and they said, "Bravo Mishko, now we can let go." Who's leading Serbia? Is there a legislative decision here that this House or someone in the shadows is doing all that, and we're some kind of cover-up cover-up at the end of the year? We adopt rebalancing at the end of the year and all that just legalize what people were doing. Here, now the auditor's called, the state auditor, the audit committee. What about the ministers from this government who are breaking the Budget Law? Nothing. They will pay 50,000 dinars and the prime minister said he would warn them not to do it anymore, because it is not nice to do it. Therefore, we will ban gatherings, ban protests, ban strikes, no strikes. How do we strike? The companies don't work. Sit people home. What on earth are you strikein' for? Isn't it better to sit at home than to go to work? Who's going to pay you? So Junior, where he has mercy, where his interest is, he'll take it. What happened to those fierce programs of ours that we adopted, that the flag would produce 200,000 "punta" and that it would export to Russia? The other day, a contract was signed between Fiat and the Russian government. Fiat enters Russia directly. What do we do now with 200,000 cars, when our purchasing power is 45,000 cars a year? We sold 15,000 of that, and that's the smallest, lowest offer, RTS, they all worked at a maximum of 15,000. What are we going to do with that 200,000 that Junior's gonna do this year, if he does? We don't know either. We're gonna get into a lot of trouble. Whoever violates the Budget Law that we've brought here, who stimulates the payment of cars to a particular private producer, we don't know that. Who approved it? Is that a violation of the Budget Law? Yeah, I'm sure it is. That's not in the budget. Did you hear the news this morning that Fiat shut down all the factories in the area of Italy because it's in crisis? You heard. There was one news this morning, if you watched this morning's journal. What happened? We've been investing billions here in the rotten Fiat, which pays itself, the Fiat that's in the decomposition phase, and simply from this overrich country of ours we've been sending there, and here we've been opening folk cuisines in the most native year that's been in existence for the last 30 years. Did we see Zajcar swim? Why? The mayor made golf courses there, wants him to have the first golf course in Serbia, so he came to Farm, and he walks around, and he makes parties, and he makes Venice out of Zaječar. Guys, is that normal? Does he have to report to anyone? Who put away those bedbugs? How does so much water get there? It says - the biggest water stop. Of course, cities are provided with the largest water supply. So, a lot of things we've been discussing here, no one's cutting it down. You come from a position sometimes, you sit down, you listen to us, we tell your story, you do what you want, you do what you want, and we just need the government as a front. Here, two months we haven't seen each other, they'd like to meet only when we adopt the budget and if they need a rebalance to regulate it and they don't need anything anymore. I repeat, so many laws in agriculture, and how is the Serbian village now? Have we ever heard the minister here explain to us what the problem is? What about agricultural products processors? So did Serbia experience importing pork for the first time in its history, not talking about chicken, etc. But it is the biggest problem of this Serbia that institutions are not respected, that institutions are being torn down, that individuals rule here and do literally what they want. Now we want to make it better for them. We're the country's decor president, and we need to make him a good decor when he gets here, that everything's gonna shine, that he's gonna shine, that he's gonna be a big boss, that he's gonna pat us a little bit, that he throws a bone when he comes between the lines, and we're happy, we're gonna go home, you guys from the ruling coalition applaud and everything goes the way it is. We in New Serbia cannot support this law because it will not change anything. Nothing will happen in Serbia. Nothing will happen in this House. We'll listen to a lady here who'll replicate to everyone. She is all-knowing, God has given us, and here she comes and explains everything – and the Constitution, and constitutional law and macro-economy. Everything's fine and everything's right, but this people don't understand anything. This people don't understand anything, so they can't understand and that's why he's unhappy. If he understood, he'd be happy, sit at home, watch TV, have fun with Big Brother, and everything would be at its best. This is how, since we have a people who understand nothing, they will not listen to the ministers, they stand in line, twisted their sleeves, and now they've made a lot of money through Gilas's firm for this, turn the sleeve. He's pushing it all the way around. Madam President, it is best for you to withdraw the law, to sit down to make this Parliament serious and to bring some and criminal provisions, that someone must listen to this Parliament, to its decisions to respect, to respect, to understand, that the members of the Government realize that they are elected by this Parliament, that they must account for it and come to this Parliament and honour it. You remember how much the Secretary of Defense made of us when he was. He's about to pull us by the ears. He came in, he's got a hard-on, what do we say, he's got it. You've seen how we go. This parliament no longer respects, respects, and feels that it is not obliged. You say they're traveling some delegations. Now some delegations will go to Libya, Morocco, Afghanistan. Where are you going to go? Ask God. Have we ever heard any travel reports? These travel orders, where have they been, what's Serbia's benefit from that? What do we benefit from various trips, from large excursions carried out around the world, etc? We don't. I'm asking you to withdraw this law, because this is a prescribed Rules of Procedure, a little reinforced and decorative. It doesn't make sense to talk like this. Our goal from the opposition is to make this a serious Serbian parliament. As serious as our parliament is, we have so much of a serious state, and that the government realizes that this Parliament is the place where they must come, that their feet tremble when they come here to account for parliament, not that they don't respect us, they don't respect us and they literally do what they want. Now we're giving them even more authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35136	Mr Ilic, I believed you were informed by a member of your parliamentary group what parliamentary diplomacy means, for example, in Australia. Pause until 15.05. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85, we will be working until the end of the agenda. Mr Branko Ruzic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35138	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the National Assembly is another part of one mosaic, bringing practical law-making and harmonisation to the Constitution of what is needed to perhaps strengthen the rating of this home, to respect the dignity and integrity of the highest representative home in Serbia. Also, the fact that the laws on all state authorities in the area of the judiciary and the executive authorities have been passed and aligned with the highest legal act of our country speak in favour of the need to pass the Law on the National Assembly. At the very beginning, it is very important to point out that we all owe great gratitude here, first of all, to the members of the task force who worked on this text for almost two years. In this task force, which worked with different intensitys, with the presence of different parties, let me say, political parties or parliamentary groups, were sitting, most importantly, representatives of all the political parties represented in this high house. Everyone has made a great contribution to this text and this text, which is practically a proposal of 128 MPs, is a text that includes a large part or a dominant part of what everyone has worked together on that task force. That's why I think the passing of this law should have one candlestick character, not to be the subject of some brushing, for politicizing, for some political purposes. No matter what is legitimate and what in every situation, especially some opposition parties, are using the opportunity to take advantage of this law in front of Serbia's public, to perhaps point to some mistakes. Also, I think it is very important that, in addition to the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group – Serbia's Single to vote for this law, in principle that all those amendments proposed by and opposition parties, but also some of the positional parties, will be taken seriously into consideration, in order to possibly improve the text that is one qualitative shift in relation to an earlier situation. What is most important is that the Serbian Parliament or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution and this law, is given institutional and financial independence. This will, for the first time, be the case since the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia in the 1990s. I believe that for the first time and formally, it will put all three authorities in the state of Serbia in a level playing field. All four functions are very important, therefore, electoral, legislative and representative and control functions, but what is important is that this Parliament is now affirming its control function, that it will have that function practically strengthened compared to the executive power, compared to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, therefore, in the past little more than a year, this home has shown that it has both potential and capacity not only to pass laws, but also to impose one dynamic work on the executive government itself, so to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the European integration process itself has been accelerated in this way, therefore, by adopting not only a quantitatively large number of legislative proposals and by adopting these proposals, it is, of course, taking into account both the content of these proposals and the qualitative provision of the laws themselves. What many have tried in the previous period, both the previous years and the previous years, is to devalue the importance of the National Assembly, to devalue the importance of the MPs, to devalue the importance of the MP as such, to present this home as a home to which people's representatives or people's electors come just to take the salary, to earn personal income and raise their diaries. That is most wrong and that is why I believe that all of us together, therefore, and the opposition and the position, should protect the integrity and integrity of this home, to realize that this is practically the essence of democracy for one country and in this, we from this ruling coalition without opposition cannot succeed with full capacity unless we all work together. I said that I am the law and these 80 members of the law are practically a reflection of one dedicated work of all members of that working group. There are some new elements that put the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a more convenient, more favourable and relaxed position, a position that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deserves. One of these elements is also the assembly budget, where we will practically not have one situation that we have, unfortunately, so far, that the functioning of parliament depends on how the government or the resolution minister will decide and say whether to transfer funds or not, and which, of course, was unacceptable and did not happen so often. Article 37, which many have mentioned here, as regards the mandate of the MP, is very clear and I do not think that tension should be raised on this issue. It is also a clear recommendation from the Venice Commission, it is a clear recommendation from the European relevant institutions, the orientation of this government and all politically responsible people in Serbia is clear. If the member says that the MP freely has his mandate in accordance with the Constitution and the law governing the choice of MPs, which is also the position in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, of course without this part of the Constitution, I must say that it clearly opens the possibility that the issue that everyone is now asking, the question of the blank resignations will be resolved by an election law which, I am sure, will be brought in as soon as possible. It will be another step towards our further European integration. There are, I'm sure, and some reserves on certain members of this bill, and I think that that's why it's crucial for us to really take, in the next two days, quite seriously and well-meaningly into considering all the amendments that have been submitted to this text of the law and to try practically to bring one perfected text and content of this law to perfection, because according to this law, and we who are now in the ruling majority and you who are in opposition are practically ruling in some future period, after some future elections when our positions may change. So I repeat that from the beginning of the presentation that this law should not be subject to politicisation, it should not be an object or a polygon to get political points, it should not be a polygon for the story of everything except the law on the National Assembly and the National Assembly. So, I think you've all made one valuable contribution and we've all done a lot together to get to this situation. It's a shame this bill didn't come before. We had deadlines from the Constitutional Law, which weren't so decidently defined that it could be said that the Constitution was broken, but in any case there was a deadline for which we were all bound, at least in that political communication. The only bad thing is that we didn't respect that deadline, but it's never too late to pass such a significant law. All criticisms concerning the intonation of an anthem or some other things provided for in this law are more of a fruit of the desire to get some political point than a fundamental dive of the content of this law and the intensity of this law. That is why I believe it is up to all of us to try to get really the best possible law in the next two or three days and to get that law as broadly as possible political support for all political options in parliament, and not to be led exclusively by party and political reasons in the opposition by us in the ruling majority when you plead or commit to this legislative proposal. I repeat, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will in principle, and I am sure in particular, with certain nuances, in general support of this law. I think this law is one of those laws that needs to unite all of us because all of us at different times worked on this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35139	I give my word to Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35140	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that I hope that our colleague will be well and that everything will go without consequences. Yesterday a friend of mine asked me what's on the agenda today, and I tell him nothing. In fact, I did not lie to him because the law proposed by 128 MPs of the assembly majority is, in my deep conviction and confidence of the DSS MPs, one big nothing. That what I just said wasn't just lightly said, I'll try to convince you of what's coming next. The basic objection that can be made to this law is the way the law is passed. Namely, there are some documents, primarily documents related to some of the most important state issues, adopted by the Assembly by consensus or by consensus. There are two technical documents that need to be adopted by consensus, these are the Rules of Procedure and this Law on the Assembly. In other words, it would have been much better if this law had proposed a group of 250 MPs and had here, without any debate or with a minimal debate, as such and adopted. Someone will say it's impossible to reach consensus. It's possible. Here, almost all parliamentary groups of MPs sitting in the Federal Parliament, that is, the State Community Parliament, when we adopted the Rules of Procedure unanimously, including the government and the opposition of Montenegro. So if there is a good will and good will is suggested, and there are too many solutions, that can be done. I wasn't involved, nor was I in the lawmaking group, but I was in a group that was trying to bring the rules of procedure. We, with a lot of agreement, have passed half the rules of procedure, then the whole thing has stopped, everything has been withdrawn, and here in parliament, just like this law, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which is as such and adopted by 128 votes. A similar thing, as I heard from my colleague Obradovic, happened in the making of this law. So it's not true that the law is the result of the widest possible consensus, and I repeat, it's a great shame about that. Let's see what the structure of the law looks like. In law, one 40% of the materials are directly constitutional provisions transferred from the Constitution. There is, however, a little more words about this when we talk about details, since the Constitution couldn't quite get into the smallest details, and the law, and the Rules of Procedure, too, was allowed to sort things out and avoid any misunderstandings, etc., but we'll talk about it later. Also, 30% of this law is the legal provisions of some other, wider laws. Unfortunately, the remaining 30%, I'm sorry, but to the greatest extent, are notorious nonsense. I'll get my order. In members who deal with MPs, or the rights and duties that MPs have, many things have not been done, and on the other hand, some things have been done wrong. I'll draw your attention to some of them. For example, in Article 46, the first two indents are completely problematic. In the first indent of the second attitude, it is said: the Messenger of the people is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly and its committees. It's not quite clear what that means. Does this mean that the MP is required to attend the assembly session? I claim that this cannot be required by the MP. I don't think there's any more serious party here that, while, of course, was in opposition, did not boycott the work of the Assembly. Either he doesn't have to boycott the permanent work of the Assembly, he can boycott one session or he can boycott one point, but it's completely legitimately the right of political parties because it's a completely legitimate way of political struggle in parliament and it's allowed everywhere in the world. Requesting this "participating in the work" is not quite clear. Moreover, in the next indent, it is said to act in accordance with the decisions of the relevant, so-called Administrative, Committees of the National Assembly which regulate the rights and responsibilities of the Members of Parliament. The Management Board may, by a majority of the votes of the ruling parties, impose such provisions which are totally unacceptable to the opposition MPs. I remind you that this law, by the logic of things, should apply to a future congregation council, when the government and the opposition partially or completely change their roles. I have to say, this law is the most talked about by someone letting go public, by me, stupid, or, if you want worse, a monstrous idea that anyone who turns 45 and I don't know has something of a congregation internship that needs to retire with some big pension. It is clear that it has been done on purpose, I do not believe that they have done so, immediately, representatives of the assembly majority, rather than I believe that those sitting in the government have done so, and it has been done simply to carry out one additional satanization of the MPs, one additional demeaning of parliament. Of course such a proposal is pointless and of course it didn't even enter this law. Who in their right mind can seek certain rights that other citizens do not have? To make things more caricatureal, in Article 47, I have to read it, it's short, it's literally next, it says -- the MP gets a pension right under the law. Of course he does, every citizen in this country gets a pension right when he meets all the legal requirements to retire and it is clear that his pension is being determined, etc., so everything that applies to other citizens is probably for MPs as well. I don't see what this member of this law is going to do but grotesquely point out how the MPs can retire. Furthermore, the part relating to the president of the assembly, I would not like to be misunderstood by Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I do not have in mind the current composition of both the current president and the current vice president, I speak in principle. I think when it comes to the President of the National Assembly, all his duties and rights must be strengthened much more. Here only in some four or five members are written to choose, what they do, we all know what they do, how they solve, and that's all. When you read that, then you naturally conclude that the president of the Alajbeg Assembly is a straw, and that the vice presidents of the Assembly are, I'm sorry, two of Alajbeg's straws. They've got two whole members who do business with them, and they don't say anything. They're not that. President of the Assembly, we liked-we didn't like him, supported him-not support him, did third man in the state. The first is the president of the state, the second is the Prime Minister, and the third is the President of the Assembly. It is so in the protocols of all democratic countries in the world, and it must be very precise, much more detailed than its obligations, and what its rights are. For example, it is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly to have security. It sounds funny to you, but he must have it, not because it's written there by some police law, but because it's his obligation. I'll tell you right now, it's the biggest pain, having a security guard that means being 24 hours in an arrest, so when you're going to the movies, then running security along with you. Next, we have a comic situation right now, and I don't see why it couldn't get into the payroll. Was it a problem to write if the parliamentary salary was 10 dinars, that the president's salary was 15 dinars and the vice president's salary was 12 dinars? We have a funny situation that the head of the cabinet of the president of the assembly has a higher salary than the president of the assembly, which probably the people don't know, but that's true. I repeat, I apologize to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm really not talking about her, I'm talking about the President of the Assembly in principle, tomorrow it's going to be someone else, and the day after tomorrow someone else. Next, one body is introduced, which may be essentially not a bad idea – a college. But according to the law, this college is a subcommittee of a singing society. It doesn't say above all the obligation to call this college, how it works, what its rights are, and what its obligations are. In other words, it's one licitative body that can be done but doesn't necessarily mean. Budget; right away to agree, the basic idea that the Assembly has a budget is good, but it's badly realised, some things are missing. For example, some other revenues are missing. We apiori think the Assembly only generates revenues from the state, from the state budget, but the Assembly can make some other revenues. Many serious international organisations, for example the OSCE, are organizing here in this building seminars, courses, conferences, meetings, etc. And I know that they're willing to make up for it and help the Assembly, which they need for the equipment, for whatever you want. There's not a word about it. On the other hand, there's one little illogical thing. I know it's good for us, and we're going to say that we want a billion-euro budget and then the government has to accept it. Of course, we are not going to say that we want a billion-euro budget, because, as a rule, the majority of the assembly is unfortunately very often acting so as to be a carrier of the government, but theoretically it can, and in fact, the government is responsible for the realisation of all possible finances, including these. In other words, I'm not sure the solution that was proposed here even drinks water. Next, there are some things that are a little funny. For example, the story of an oath. First, the Assembly is an institution many swear upon when they take office. It's all prescribed by the Constitution and the relevant laws. In front of whom does the congregation swear an oath? In front of himself, in front of God, in front of the people. I'm not sure that's a good thing. To the side of the text of the oath itself. In that text, there is no sentence that we will first of all defend this country and its interests because human rights are mentioned, etc., and the state, interests, borders, there is no word in the oath. In other words, I can be an MP and that it is my legitimate political goal to attach this country to another country or to attach part of this country to another state. It could be interpreted like that. The text is completely unacceptable. This thing with the guard is almost not worth commenting on. The guard won't help us fix the image of the Assembly. On the contrary, I'm afraid we'll look ridiculous. I'm not sure, except for some special occasions, so to speak, when it's understood there's a guard, and it's known when, in all these other cases that are predicted here, at the beginning of a regular session, I don't think that's a good solution. Furthermore, much has not been done in this law at all. There's gonna be time for us to talk more about it in detail, but just to name it. It was not possible for auxiliary services in the congregation to be better organized. Is it really a workplace, for example? The cleaning lady has to be at the Federation Palace, so they can serve us from there, does the Assembly's security still have to have their own chief in the police or could someone in the Assembly be in charge, which I think is more practical? Do chefs, waiters and everyone else also have jobs today in the Assembly, tomorrow at some ministry, the day after tomorrow, or could they also be congregation workers? That's not what you're thinking at all. Then, the question that should also be defined – to whom can all this congregation give space? I'm sorry, we had a few cases, for me personally very problematic, when it was played, sang, played, etc., which I don't think is appropriate to the Assembly. Of course, that doesn't mean that nobody should be issued, but there's a big difference between serious international organisations that organize something and 20,000 NGOs out of here, which, as far as I can tell, is how they organize something here in the Assembly. Furthermore, Article 30 does not define the number of Members who form a parliamentary group. In other words, we can conclude that the number can go from two to 250. We in the Rules of Procedure have defined that it is five, but if it stands like this, it can come to someone's mind and that two MPs can be a parliamentary group, but it can be the opposite. For example, one can think of 70 MPs as a member of parliament, so there would be only one at the moment. So that's something that needs to be defined anyway. In the end, I guess it's clear from everything I said that the DSS in the voting day will come to vote, but it will vote against the adoption of this and this law, with a repeated regret that the law did not come in a smarter and better way, and that the law itself is not smarter and better. The DSS, otherwise, did not propose amendments, because we believe that this and this law cannot be corrected by amendments, only the law can be withdrawn and written by another, I repeat, in one different and smarter way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35141	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35142	Honored Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, many of these objections actually cannot apply to this law, they are exclusively the matter of the Rules of Procedure and, in that sense, they will all be taken into account when, after the adoption of this law, they are making the text of the new Rules of Procedure. I want to make one principled remark about everything we've heard here. Your party's representative was the president of the law-making task force and I could ask you why he didn't do this job smart enough and fast enough, so we'd have a law today and we wouldn't be discussing it at all. So I think it's an incorrect remark from the point of view of a real effort to get to this law. So everything that's the content of the law, in my opinion, is really a topic of discussion, and I'm very ready to hear any objection that will help make this law better. But to make a point to those who still decided that this law should see the light of day and come before the MPs, in relation to those who did not want to do it, were unable to do it or assess you however you would like, I do not think it is correct to communicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35143	Mr. Shami, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35144	First, Mr. Obradovic was the head of the working group in the previous assembly, when the law did not enter the assembly procedure at all. Secondly, he participated at the beginning of work, under the leadership of Mr. Novakovic. So, he was involved until then while he was under the impression that he was being respected and doing something. Then the work died and then it was done in some other way, and this document came up. Of course, the matter of the Rules of Procedure and the Law of the Assembly is intertwined and it's a matter of feeling where it should be written. Sometimes something needs to be written in both places. Perhaps the Law on the Assembly cannot go into the smallest detail of the procedure, as the session is going on, etc., nor should it, but some things relating in principle to the rights and obligations of the Members, to the rights and obligations of the President of the Assembly, to the rights and obligations of the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, to the rights and obligations of those who work by committees, the chairman of the Committee, etc., I think it was absolutely a place in the law and that it was worth writing, even if we wrote something that might not be liked by some. I've tried to tell you in the shortest time what's wrong with it, and there's not much wrong with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35145	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35146	Dear fellow Members of the People, I must at first say that it is not correct to call this law stupid and bad. He could have been both smart and much better if a lot more people had been involved in his writing. The fact that the task force only met twice is not a mistake or the intention of someone who led the task force, but simply a boycott of certain opposition parties who did not want to participate in this. So, if someone contributed to making this law better, to be smarter, I would appreciate it very much, as I will appreciate and read every amendment that has come from the opposition ranks in order to improve the law, and I am sure that other representatives of the ruling coalition will do. Secondly, what I'm saying is that my predecessors said one thing that was true and one thing that was wrong. It is true that the adoption of the law is a constitutional obligation to the Assembly and to Article 110. The constitution says the National Assembly is being passed the law, but it is not true that this is the first law on the Assembly since the first Law on the Assembly was passed on 28 October 1858, on the basis of which the Sentrean Assembly was called, held on 30 November 1858, until 31 January 1859, but not in the assembly building unfortunately, which was not then but in a large brewery in Belgrade. But as a one-home parliament as such, which numbers 250 MPs, the National Assembly was nominally re-established by the adoption of the Constitution in 1990. The adoption of this Law on the National Assembly is seen as an attempt to place all three branches of government, executive, judicial and legislative, in the same constitutional position, finally, if possible, a balance between these three branches of government. Of course, of these three branches of government is the legislative authority and this National Assembly in the worst and most underrated position, but therefore we should not only be blamed, as popularly said, for the rating of the Assembly or the image of the Assembly, but we are all a little bit responsible for the very low branches on which the National Assembly has fallen, and not only in the last year or two days, but for the gods in the last ten years, because in the same room or in that room across the road to King Milan, there have been conflicts and scandals. And it was on the one hand the irresponsibility of the MPs themselves, but I have to say that every executive authority, including this one, occasionally runs a campaign against parliament, and that some media are very airy and very happy to receive it, because what we would say in the government are doing, and they are just talking there in the Assembly. If we want to change the relationship between the citizens and the executive authorities, or the government towards parliament, one of the first steps to do so is also the adoption of a law on the Assembly. I have no illusion that only the adoption of this law on the Assembly of God will improve this famous image of the Assembly in public, but it is ours to try and ours to do everything to bring back or at least try to restore dignity to parliament. Of all the parliaments I've been in, and in which my fellow MPs have been, I think this is the parliament that is being attacked and the government itself, and the opposition, and the media, and the citizens and everyone who arrives. That's why we all have to work together and work to get the credibility and dignity of parliament back. Special laws on parliament have Israel, Switzerland and Sweden. So we cannot say that this is a common practice, even in European countries, to pass a law on the Assembly, but that does not mean that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not have its own law. Because if we were to look at common practice, I'm afraid that even this pure proportional system, in which the MPs of the majority are, and also by their parties only the voting machine, is not very common in modern European history. The law on Parliament does not, I will read, several countries, or more than a few that do not have it: Albania, Austria, Belgium, BiH, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Denmark, Estonia, Italy, Cyprus, LithuaniaLuxemburg, Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Netherlands, Finland, Croatia, the Czech Republic etc. When we look at the bill on the National Assembly, what does it essentially bring us? The fact that MPs have been sworn in is not a newspaper since 1868, but I welcome the introduction of such a provision on the Law on the Assembly. The initial intonation of the anthem and the beginning of the Assembly will be welcomed by the Guard is also an attempt to restore the jagged reputation of parliament, however ridiculous and pathetic it may seem, and I can no longer remember the expressions I heard in the afternoon debate. As far as the position of the MPs is concerned, it is prescribed by the Constitution, derived from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and found in Chapter 7 of the Law, means the rights and duties of the Members of Parliaments. So there is no more or less than what the Constitution has given, and the law has done very well, that is, the bill. It moves in the established constitutional frameworks, so that it cannot be respected either by the proposing or by the people who have worked on the proposal of this law that they have not carefully read the constitutional provisions and provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and that they have therefore made this Chapter 7, which is one of the most important, which covers the rights and duties of the Members of Parliaments. Speaking of that famous Article 37, where it is said that the MP freely disposes of his mandate in accordance with the Constitution and the Law governing the choice of Members of Parliament, I will be the first person to support the abolition of the blank resignation of the moment when we move from a pure proportional system to a combined or in a distant future, if that is the agreement to the majority system. As long as we have such an electoral system until then, the parties will protect themselves with blank resignations, and until then MPs will participate in the lists of their parties, and when they participate independently or in that combined system, such as in Vojvodina, they will have the right and freedom to have their mandate. This, of course, should not prevent MPs from expressing their opinion, expressing their position, participating in the discussion, acting as free individuals, but, ultimately, this mandate belongs to the party a little more than it belongs to the MP. On this point, we may still be in the future and disputed, I welcome the initiative of parties that do not have a blank resignation, but as far as my party is concerned, as long as this proportional system is so far as the blank resignations of MPs stand in one place. The most visible newspaper passed by the Law on the National Assembly is the budget of the National Assembly and is the attempt to establish the financial independence of the Assembly, because without financial independence we cannot talk about the equal position of the Assembly towards the executive and judicial authority, but especially according to the executive authority. That the Assembly gets its budget and the bill is reason enough to support this law. The budget of the National Assembly would be a special part of the law on the Republic of Serbia's budget managed by the National Assembly, which also manages its property necessary for the exercise of competence. In Chapter 15, both the property and the funding of the National Assembly, where it is said that the funds for the work of parliament will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and parliament will have its own account, will have its own resources to work, the secretary of parliament will prepare a draft parliamentary budget, refer it to the adoption of the committee responsible, which, after adoption, sends it to the competent minister, etc., not to convince all provisions and members of Chapter 15. So, when we look at this bill, we see that there is nothing in it that the media has entertained in congregation breaks, whether, in its own opinion, whether because they are told, there is no privilege, no high wages, no early pensions, there is nothing other than the law that applies to all other citizens of Serbia. I think that's good, that we will all agree on this very easily and that these issues are resolved by other laws that apply to all citizens of Serbia. Finally, I would like to say that through this bill there is indeed a clear intention that the National Assembly finally strengthens all its four functions, and representative, and legislative, and electoral, and control, and that it is fortunate that this law is passed by consensus, with a large number of votes, but if that is not possible, of course, there is a majority that will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35147	I give my word to Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that I was amazed after this first discussion of Mrs. Hope Kolundjia when she said that this and this text of the Bill on the National Assembly had been prepared for two years. What it says here really doesn't take two years. The draft law on the National Assembly, which is now on the agenda, is bad because some of its provisions are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is poor and unspeakable in a nomotechnical, linguistic sense, there are many legal gaps and to its large extent it represents a mere copying of the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's take it in a row. Article 2 states that the National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. If the National Assembly is the most representative body, then there is also a representative body that is the lowest. It would be good if the ruling coalition told us – what is the lowest representative body in the Republic of Serbia? The National Assembly is neither the lowest nor the middle, but the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the only representative body in which all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are represented, unlike local congregations, unlike the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. As far as those who have written this text of the bill do not understand the essence of parliamentaryism and the essence of political representation, this is best seen in Article 7 – The National Assembly, within its jurisdiction, performs the following functions: representative, legislative, electoral and control. This means that the representative function is something special compared to the legislative function, compared to the electoral function and the control function. It's not. Parliament also acts as representative when it adopts laws, and when it chooses the government and when it oversees its work. Artificially separate the representative function of parliament from its other functions, in fact, it says those who wrote the text of the bill know nothing about parliamentaryism, not in a theoretical sense, nor do they know the history of parliamentaryism. In Article 8 - the National Assembly brings, then all possible general and individual acts adopted by the National Assembly are listed. But, watch out, Article 2 states that the National Assembly is the institution of the constitutional and legislative authority, and Article 8 writes – it brings laws, budgets, final accounts, etc. Where is your Constitution, Mrs. Kolundjia? If we're the bearer of the constitutional government, I guess we bring the Constitution first, then everything else. The constitution is not mentioned in Article 8, and the most important is the general legal act brought by the National Assembly and which is later confirmed in the national referendum. On the other hand, Mrs. Kolundjia, explain to me – what is the difference between the law, the budget and the final account? The budget is passed in law form, the final bill is passed in law form. There's no law, so then the budget is like something different from the law. There's a budget law and there's a bill on the final budget for that year and that year. Breaking the law from the budget and the final bill is not right, above all, from the legal point of view. Furthermore, the question arises why in Article 8, you did not separate these acts brought by the National Assembly, so as to know which acts are general, which are individual, which are legal, which are political, etc. You've thrown it all into one pile and now it's completely irrelevant whether it's a law, development plan, rules of procedure, strategy, declaration, resolution, recommendation, decision, conclusion, all in your opinion one and the same, all of this is done by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35149	You want to do it again? You spoke for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35150	You've misrecorded the Constitution, and you can see that in Article 15. In Article 15, you say that the National Assembly is overseeing the government's work in carrying out its control and deciding to suspend the government's mandate and ministers. It's a control function for you. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 99, says -- under its election rights, the National Assembly elects the government, oversees its work and decides on the termination of the government's mandate and ministers. According to the Constitution, it's an electoral function, you think it's a control function. Don't stick to the Constitution. Secondly, I really don't understand in the language sense, if the National Assembly controls, or performs a control function, then I guess it controls the work of the Government rather than - performs the control function by controlling it. Either the word control is uniformly used, or the word surveillance is uniformly used. You use two different words in the same sentence. I don't know why you're doing this. It's either a control function or it's surveillance. If it's a control function, then the National Assembly controls, and if it's a supervisory function, then it controls. Again, as far as you do not know the essence of parliamentaryism, in your opinion, Mrs Kolundzija, imagine what kind of paradox, the National Assembly only performs representative functions in two cases, when considering the performances and suggestions of citizens and when holding meetings with citizens. So when it adopts the Constitution, it does not act as representative, when it adopts laws it does not act as representative, when it chooses not to act as a representative. Of course he does, but for reasons unknown to us, you have completely separated these four functions of Parliament. In Article 17, you provide that MPs are to take an oath. You see, Mrs. Kolundjia, the Law on the National Assembly falls under public law. It cannot contain any institute that is not directly or indirectly mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're not on the field of civil law, so we can regulate our legal relations on our own. This is a typical law that belongs to the ius publicum, in public law and must strictly adhere to the Constitution. The Constitution only mentions two cases where state officials, i.e. state authorities, take an oath: President of the Republic and Government. You cannot now pass by the Constitution to make an oath for the Messengers of the people. We don't mind. All the MPs of the SRS have sworn, but this is about the legal text. You can only enter into the legal text something that has its basis in the Constitution. The People's MP's oath does not have its basis in the Constitution, has the oath of the President of the Republic and has the government's oath, so article 17 does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. How unequally poor the law is also seen by using unequal terminology again. In article 19, you say -- the president of the National Assembly, among other things, is calling meetings of the National Assembly Presidency and chairing meetings. There is one question here – whether you are referring to a college or whether you are referring to the National Assembly presidency in terms of the President of the National Assembly and Vice-Presidents, without the heads of the parliamentary groups. I think you're thinking of a college, because nowhere in the bill specifically defines the position of the presidency, but it's only about the college, so either it's a college or it's a presidency, define yourself for one term. In article 19, the Bureau, in Article 26, is a college of the National Assembly. You're confusing even your MPs who will vote for this bill tomorrow. In Article 27, in working bodies, you use a Bolshevik termology, long overcome, let's go to the side which is spellingly bad, writes – the work of working bodies can be part of the point of professional and scientific workers. You'd get one if you were on a written exam in primary school, but "expert and scientific workers," Mrs. Kolundjia, your termology has long been overcome. It is a working people, workers, peasants and honest intelligence. What kind of "scientists" are they to you, and what kind of unscient ones are they? It is simply said – experts and scientists. This termology "scientist worker" was current at the time of Cardell. In Article 30, he says, MPs' groups are educated in the National Assembly. We have proposed an amendment that makes complete sense, which is that only the parliamentary groups of political parties participating in the parliamentary elections can be educated in the National Assembly. You now have in the Serbian Parliament a completely abnormal situation that does not exist in any country in the world, that there are MPs in the Serbian Parliament who did not even exist at the time of the parliamentary elections. In the Serbian Parliament, such a thing is possible. This amendment removes this possibility. MP groups can be educated, but only by MPs from those parties who participated in the parliamentary elections. Then another example of bad style. You say - the parliamentary group has a president and vice president. I suppose there are members of the MPs' group as well. It is impossible, Mrs. Kolundjia, that there is only you and your deputy in your parliamentary group. I guess there are people behind you, too. It's not said there's a group of MPs. She cannot have anything, but that the parliamentary group consists of members of the parliamentary group, and the president and deputy are at the helm. Well, then, this famous member of 37. I really thought that at the very least you would rewrite Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't think that you would specifically elaborate him, because apparently there is no clear position in the ruling coalition about the parliamentary mandate, whether he is free or imperative, etc., but even if you could prescribe the Constitution. No, you put something in article 37 that's not even in the Constitution. You say, "The Messenger of the people is freely at his command." Mr. Zoran Krasic explained well to you – to have something to do means to conclude a legal business? What's that? Double-sided legal work. Does this mean that we are turning the National Assembly into a stock market, so tomorrow some MP will be able to sell his mandate, to make his legacy to his children, to give it to someone, etc? It can't. The nature of our electoral system is such that the political parties that participate in the elections are such. Citizens opt for political parties' programmes. They are not directly assigned to the MP. It can be, but in an election system that's majority. In an electoral system that is proportional, what it says in Article 37 is quite the opposite of the logic of the proportional electoral system. On the other hand, I think that citizens who have been monitoring the transmission today could have noticed that even in the ruling coalition there is no unique position. A little while, Mrs. Susana Grubjesic says they are for the fact that there are blank resignations, because it is in the logic of our electoral system. Mr. Bosko Ristic says this morning – they are for free terms. It seems that even in the ruling coalition, you do not have a unique view of the nature of the parliamentary mandate and of these famous resignations. On the other hand, you DS are top hypocrites. You're for free terms, and you've got blank resignations. What do you sign blanco resignations if you're ready for your terms of office? The MP, he says, sets out, comes forward and votes for his own confidence. Mrs. Hope Kolundji this morning claimed that the MPs were not an army. I don't know, Mrs. Kolundjia, why are you chasing your MPs in voting day? What do you care if they vote or not? I guess that's their free faith, huh? You see how in practice that sweetness of yours means nothing? Yeah, we're free, each vote according to their beliefs. When the day comes to vote, the beginning of the session is delayed because there are insufficient numbers of MPs from the ruling coalition, and then you chase them around the Assembly, and you pay attention to how who voted. What do you care how anybody voted, if a man is free to define himself by his belief? You say Parliament, or Parliament is not an army. It kind of is. You know, there's some discipline in every organized human society. Imagine that the military law says that the lieutenant is commanding the company as he pleases? What does he care what the Major, Colonel or General says? Where would that society come from? Some discipline must exist. The attitude of the SRS is something you all know and how you end up ruling, but you rule in one way and you say something else entirely. The MP votes and steps forward in accordance with the decisions of his parliamentary group and that is something that is quite normal. The parliamentary group's position may, for example, be to be and to be defined, i.e. to vote according to its beliefs. I doubt there's any parliamentary group here where everything is completely free and we don't care if MPs come, whether they vote, what they say, etc. If you vote on your beliefs, remember, Mrs. Kolundjia, when we voted on a set of judicial laws, how many amendments were submitted by DS MPs. Did they vote for any amendments? No, they're not. Where's their belief? How did that belief suddenly go away? A man has one confidence when he signs the amendment, in seven days, when he votes, he has a completely different belief. If your MPs are free, as you claim, then why is there such a practice? This practice that there is some discipline in parliament, we haven't invented it, it exists in the British Parliament for several hundred years. People who are in your position, in the position of the boss of the ruling political party, you know what they're called - whips. They make sure where their MPs are. If they're in the O.R., if they're not in the O.R., how they're going to vote, what they're going to say in parliament. Now it turns out that there is no discipline anywhere, only in the Serbian parliament there are some disciplines, and now we are going to tear down those disciplines. This is just proof, one of the proofs that you essentially know nothing about parliamentaryism. Now something very important. This law contains, among other things, one head called – Procedures for the adoption of acts and other procedures. Mrs. Kolundgia, this morning you were so a little drowsy, I don't think you had a very bad intention, perhaps you didn't know that part of Serbian history, you said that, well, some say that we used to have great institutions, but that's not true. There was discontinuity, etc. Mrs. Kolundzhija, in October 1870 in the Principality of Serbia, before we were granted independence at the Berlin Congress, a law was passed that was called, you know how? Business law in the National Assembly. The law has defined the law-making process. What kept you from doing the same thing? We now, Mrs. Kolundzija, in the Republic of Serbia, in our legal system, have an amazing paradox, there are fellow lawyers sitting, they will understand me. The procedure for the adoption of individual legal acts, administrative acts, judgments shall be governed by law, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on litigation, the Law on Criminal Procedure, etc. How is the law-making process defined? Under the law. That's absurd. Lower legal acts, individual legal acts, the procedure is regulated by law, and the legal procedure itself is governed by one sublegal act – the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. This was supposed to be governed by the Law on the National Assembly, but, Mrs. Kolundjia, someone convinced you that the Law on the National Assembly should be brief. It shouldn't be short. It needs to be large, it needs to be detailed, it needs to be precise. This bill of law isn't. Serbia had laws and one of those laws was called the Law on Business Order in the National Assembly. The law prescribed a procedure for the adoption of laws. Serbian lawyers knew that in the 19th century, these lawyers of yours in the 21st century don't know that. So when you bring a building permit, you pass it by law, when you adopt a law that will apply to millions of Serbian citizens, it is adopted by the procedure prescribed by the sublaw, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. It had to be regulated by law. The constitution does not prevent you from law-recording the law-making process. He did not say the Constitution – it is regulated by the rules of procedure. That's what you're saying, but you're wrong about what you're saying you don't have the basis for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we have proposed an amendment concerning Article 50 of the Law on the National Assembly. You say that representatives of foreign states can address the National Assembly. We have proposed an amendment that they can, but only those countries that respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. What you wrote, you know what it means? A representative of a state who does not recognise Serbia as a comprehensive state can come here tomorrow and address the National Assembly. It is the worst possible insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. It is the worst possible insult of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's the treading of the Constitution. It's a violation of all possible moral and political principles. Then there's one amazing thing again. You say the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. What is the basic matter with regard to the National Assembly and the Government? That the National Assembly chooses the government. Every law school student knows that. What do you think is most important? He says the government is reporting to the National Assembly. It turns out that when it comes to the relations between the National Assembly and the Government and the relations between the National Assembly and the President of the Republic, it refers to mutual notification; that is not the case. Of course there is a mutual notification, but before that, there is something called the Government's choice by the National Assembly. It had to be found in the Law on the National Assembly. This is far more important than reporting to the National Assembly. Of course, because of the shortness of time, I can't elaborate all the other shortcomings in this bill. Anyway, Mrs. Kolundjia, the bill is bad. He's unconstitutional. This is one completely non-systemic law. You haven't fully regulated anything by this law. You're only making this law for one single reason, so you can say you've implemented article 110. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the law on the National Assembly is passed and for nothing else. Tomorrow, when you apply this law, you will see that it is contradictory, that its provisions are contradictory, that the law itself is contradictory with the Constitution, that it is contradictory with some other laws that apply in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why you were in such a hurry with this and this bill, he's bad. The SRS, and so will my colleagues, for all these reasons for this and this bill on the National Assembly, will not be able to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35151	The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35152	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can't say this doesn't sound cute, but it's not true. So everything you said just doesn't stand, at least most of it. You say that the provision in the law that defines the National Assembly as the most representative body is contrary to the Constitution and that it does not stand in the Constitution. I'm reading article 98. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the National Assembly is the most representative body. I'm sorry, you're boasting that your huge contribution to the adoption of the Constitution and the text of the Constitution. I fear these disagreements and these contradictions are your merits. Since you, when you talk about the Constitution, now you think yourself that some of these things shouldn't be in the Constitution, so I figure that's why you put them in the Constitution. You claim that in Article 8, we do not mention that the National Assembly, among other things, brings the Constitution, but if you only stick to that member, then you are right, but if you look at the whole law, then it is seen unequivocally that in its responsibilities it states precisely that in the first place the Assembly brings and changes the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it sounds nice what you're saying, but it's not true. Of course, by no provision of the law, we have questioned the fact that the National Assembly, by its very essence, is a representative body and that everything it does in its capacity to represent citizens who are holders of sovereignty. So that's not what we said anywhere, so you can't even argue that we don't understand what parliamentaryism is and that we don't know how to position parliament, we haven't challenged it anywhere, we're just talking about Parliament's special role in achieving our representative function in direct communication with citizens, therefore, just in that sense. If you think it's unnecessary to stand, it's your opinion, and I just don't want to pummel. The fact that we in law have stated that there are presidents of parliamentary groups and vice presidents is our intention to give special importance to this function in parliament. Maybe you don't think it should be done. We thought that the presidents of the parliamentary groups and their deputies in the congregation had a special place and that it is therefore necessary to define it by law. We can still argue whether it's necessary or not. It is understood that the parliamentary group has members. We didn't think it was something special to single out. But we believe that the presidents of the parliamentary groups play a special role in the work of parliament, and therefore we felt that they should be specifically cited. I don't want to argue that you were actually trying to caricate a fundamental democratic principle in which the MP is someone who has the authority to have the mandate, with something that is a rule of conduct or some kind of discipline or the relationship of the majority to the fact that she chose the government, that she supported the government's programme and that she supports government projects and the measure of discipline for such a thing. I just don't think you can put that in the same basket. It's two completely different things. Therefore, the integrity of the MPs who supported the government is not diminished by the need to behave in the decision-making process under some rules and disciplines, and I do not see that it was necessary to caricate in some way. You claim that we have broken the Constitution and that we have made an oath, because you claim that the Constitution clearly states who is sworn in, and that is where you immediately uttered the lie. You said the Constitution prescribed that the oath be made by the President of the State and the Government. The Constitution doesn't say that the government is sworn in. We know that the government is taking an oath, as we know judges are, and it also doesn't say in the Constitution that judges are taking an oath. Therefore, I think that your interpretation of the Constitution at least is not consistent or at least you haven't studied the Constitution enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35153	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? I ask you not to throw as much tolerance as any session involves, especially a session where the law governing the National Assembly is discussed. I listen very carefully to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the parliamentary group of SRS, the MPs who earn and disrupt order, so I ask you not to do so, if it is in everyone's interest to respect the order. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants a replica. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must indeed note that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has spoken a number of false things. I didn't say, Mrs. Kolundjia, that Article 2 is unconstitutional. It is true that the Constitution states that the National Assembly is the most representative body, but you must take care of the character of the Constitution. The constitution is not only a legal act, but also a political act. The law is an act that has less legal power than the Constitution. It must contain pure legal terminology. The constitution is a political document. The constitution is a document that should also be understood by those who are not lawyers. With the law, it's a different situation. The law must be far more precise than the Constitution. As for Mrs. Kolundji, if the government takes an oath, you said it was not written in the Constitution, and I'm telling you it's written. Article 128(2) - The government's mandate begins to run on the day of the oath before the National Assembly. So it's a constitutional standard for the government to take an oath. The government doesn't take an oath because it wants it to, but because the Constitution commits it to it. What's the oath you wrote in the bill? It is written in style as little Perica imagines what the oath of a MP should look like. What's she like? She's a layman. What does an honorable man swear to? I guess some higher value than him. He who is a believer swears to God.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35155	National MP, please choose your words carefully and do not qualify for negative lay oaths in a country whose constitution you quote, one of the members of which says Serbia is a global state. Careful, please, with terms and qualifications concerning the violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35156	Mrs. Komic, I don't think it's a shame to say he's a believer. Just because the state is lay, that doesn't mean we all need to be atheists.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35157	Secondly, I warn you to keep quoting the provisions of the Constitution and that our Constitution says Serbia is a world state. These are too important things to be the subject of creative exposure or insights within replicas. Please have your presentation within the replica, to which you have obtained the right, be guided by the respect of the Constitution. For the second time, I remind the other People’s Messengers of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the conduct of all the Members of the People. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35158	I really don't understand, Mrs. Comic, why you now need to help Mrs. Nado Kolundji communicate with me. I'm on my way to break ground with Mrs. Hope Kolundzija, and you're telling me that by the Constitution, Serbia is a world state. I'm telling you that according to the Constitution and the existence of freedom of religion and that I have the right to say that I am a believer. If the state is global, it doesn't mean that all citizens should be atheists. I guess that's the alphabet of political democracy. The oath really is lay. If I'm a believer, allow me, I'd like the oath to have a religious character.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35159	People's MP, I now warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure and I warn you that the creativity and insights you use in the replica do not conflict with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor with the provisions of the Constitution, and I ask you to take this warning quite seriously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35160	So, Mrs. Kolundjia, you say your MPs have the right to freely commit on their own conscience as they will. But I have set an example of this set of judicial laws that you have adopted, if I am not mistaken, at the end of 2008 -- people have submitted a large number of amendments. After that, they didn't vote for their own amendments. Where's the freedom of conscience? Where's the freedom of conviction? When did they change their conviction? In words, you advocate freedom of belief, but in practice you don't do it, because something like that isn't even possible. There cannot be, Mrs. Kolundjia, any segment of organised human society or parliament without any minimum discipline. We're not a set of free shooters here, so everyone thinks they will. I guess there's some cohesion between us. I guess we're sitting here because we feel the same way about social problems. In which parliament in the world can an MP vote exactly as he wills, asking no one for anything? That's what you made up. It's one of your political fantasies. In reality, she doesn't exist anywhere. It doesn't even exist in the British Parliament, where the majority electoral system, where the entire territory of Great Britain is divided into small constituency, so it wins, or it's an MP who gets the largest number of votes. And there are those whips. You are, say, one of the whips of the ruling coalition. It's nothing persuasive. It exists in the UK. If there's one in the UK...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35161	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35162	I will not question again how the freedom of MPs is measured and where these freedoms are borders, and what it means when an MP votes for the government and its programme and how it is defined for voting for the law. I think that subject is completely out of this context. In this law we don't deal with this subject, nor do we lay down rules on how who behaves here, and I don't think that's simply the subject of our controversy. As far as the oath is concerned, the fact is that all the oaths that take place in this country, as a lay country, are lay oaths. We do not swear to any higher power. We swear before an institution or before a citizen and commit ourselves to respecting the Constitution, the law and the doing in their best interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35163	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives report to the floor? You want a replica again? Here you go. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35164	Risking that I might get some warning, indeed the most well-intentioned, Mrs. Kolundjia, when we mention the oath – why does a man swear, to whom he swears, and why does he have to honor the oath? Because he's afraid of sanctions unless the oath is carried out. What's the penalty in this case of yours? Take an oath that you will fight for the interests of the citizens and do not fight. Can the citizens give you any sanctions? I can't. Of course I can't. It's not a sanction. Why does a man swear to God? Because there's a belief that there's a higher power above him that controls his behavior and if his behavior isn't moral, if it doesn't comply with the text of the oath, there's a fear of sanctions. He's making him honor the oath. What's driving the MP here to carry out this oath? Nothing. If I were to be maligned, as I won't, this oath reminds me of an oath that lies in a Masonic loin, there's no mention of God, truth, justice, freedom, etc. This oath is indeed controversial from a sociological aspect, not only of constitutional law. Where did you copy it from? Why does it have to be like this? Where's the basis for an oath like this? Of course, it's not the oath of the essence of this bill. He'll be bad with an oath or no oath, but I'm just saying, you know, in fact, sociologically, you know this matter, because there's always got to be an oath of some higher value that a man's afraid of, afraid of sanctions if they don't. What's he afraid of here? Truths, freedoms, justice? These are abstract values, theoretically. No sanctions can happen to you. Why is the oath still a little declassified? In the Serbian Parliament, you have people who have sworn not to be free, to be true and to justice, sworn by the almighty God and the Holy Council, sworn by the future of their descendants and by the honor of their ancestors, so they have trampled it. If they stepped on it, what would they do with this oath? The oath is pointless even from that point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35165	National MP Nada Kolundzija, authorised representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35166	Again, I don't want to compromise on what's most feared and what's the greatest authority for. I want to say that I deeply believe that for every MP, Serbian citizens are the highest authority, and that is why I think that the obligation that we commit to them is enough for anyone who believes that it is here for them, not for themselves and not for some other force more. Just to meet you, the Masons keep the Bible when they swear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35167	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that until the opening of the principled search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, the following parliamentary groups – the LDP parliamentary group, the New Serbia MP group, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the G17 Plus parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia Group, the ZES parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the principle of the draft law on the National Assembly, the first one has been reported by the MP Judita Popovic, who has the word and after that, MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35168	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, independence, independence, integrity, or dignity determines the quality of the work of an institution. Parliament is an institution, and today we are discussing the law on the National Assembly of the RS. If we take into account what I just said about these three principles, such as independence, independence and dignity, then we must also analyse this law in accordance with these principles, how much they are represented in the bill and how much we can hope that the Assembly will really get its place in this society, which it deserves in accordance with the Constitution and even legal order. I would go from Article 15, which defines Parliament's competence and I specifically refer to point 7, which says parliament is passing laws and other general acts under RS jurisdiction. I would also refer to the control function of the National Assembly, which oversees the work of the government. In this position, it is precisely listed what is under supervision and it is said that, under the supervision of the government's work, the government's mandate, ministers, security services, governors of the National Bank, citizens' protectors and other bodies is decided in accordance with the law. In addition to this article, I would point out immediately Article 58, which in fact defines how control of the work of the Government or a member of the Government is carried out, and is said to be done – by asking a parliamentary question, by submitting impelation, by voting on mistrust with the Government or by an individual member of the Government and the education of the polling committee. When all this is put into context, I don't see any way that the promoters think they control the government's work on law enforcement, because I would remind you that we've passed a lot of laws over the past year, that there's a lot of work to be done here to harmonise domestic regulations with EU regulations. However, there are problems implementing these laws. There are problems or because the Government does not adopt any sublegal acts that should be used to enforce these laws, or these sublegal acts are inadmissible, so neither can laws be implemented. That is, therefore, a big problem, because we, again, would remind you, are the Supreme Legislative Authority, so the body that makes the laws, and that is our basic function. That's why we sit here day and day and put together and separate the agenda points, so law-making. So there's one serious point missing in controlling the government's work, and that's control of how laws are going to be passed. I mean, it's a very serious failure, and now we've had a chance to clearly define by this law what government obligations are if the Assembly indicates that laws are not implemented, that they are misimplemented and that there are problems in law enforcement. The next point I would refer to is Article 26 of the National Assembly College. So, in fact, this college is just an expanded composition of representatives of parliamentary groups, who are sometimes called together and I really don't see what the purpose of this college is except for some representative meaning, representative in the sense that members of the college will appear together with the vice-presidents of the Assembly, and that nothing of this qualitative solution will win. The first point I called for, we really do not see what is involved in the independence and independence of Parliament's work, because this independence and independence implies both some harmonisation and certain co-operation and with the executive branch of the government, and we do not see this co-operation from out of nowhere. The introduction of a truly unnecessary solution to the National Assembly college also does not show how this dignity or integrity will be strengthened. The next point in my presentation is this article 37, that's that imperial mandate. We have had the opportunity to work on the freedom and independence of the mandate, in fact to ease the imperial character of the mandate, which allows the Constitution to put into effect the position 2 in Article 102. We have completely missed the chance to ease this imperative, if not simply delete, because there are solutions in parallel law that give opportunity, despite the existing constitutional solution, to simply delete this imperative mandate. Because it is an obstacle to the stone foundation of European democracy, which really does not know the imperial mandate. The next point I would refer to is Article 46, which provides for participation in the work of the National Assembly and its committees by the MP, which is to be placed in one binding category. I think it is completely unnecessary, that the Assembly is already under enough pressure and all MPs, and with this binding provision, there is an even greater possibility that MPs are being pressured for a variety of reasons. Point five I would refer to is contained in Article 55 in the context of Article 61, because the candidacy simply obliges us not to leave only the Rules of Procedure to decide on the way and procedure of emergency adoption of so-called. Pro-European laws, and I would remind you, we have already submitted to candidacy, so if we want to go to the EU, then we should simplify the adoption of such laws. The next point I would refer to is the international co-operation of the National Assembly, which does not at all foresee and does not call for the EU, our main partner, and the EU, which we are so keen on, really needs a little more space in the law on the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35169	Eight minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time available to the LDP parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Jankovic, followed by Parliament MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35170	There is no Serb who doesn't grab his head when he hears about the Serb assembly. She often looked more like a road mechanism in the last 20 years, where stories with a sad ending were told by two in the morning than the highest representative body. However, now the figures of those who pack the agenda have been changed, so that after a brief procedure the '30 in one' law is passed, and again at two in the morning, that nothing is caused by two months' breaks. The Serbian people did not always have an assembly that resembles a roadside mechanism. History suggests that the Serb congregations were both smart and responsible. The first Law on the National Assembly was passed on 28 October 1858. It called the World Andre National Assembly in 1859 in Belgrade. This is the legal institution of the National Assembly and the basis of the representative system in Serbia has been hit. From the early 19th century to the 1858 ’ s, the Common National Assemblys were held, called upon by the prince or council when they found needed. They were also held at the time of the first and second Serbian uprising, so-called The Uprising National Assembly, where congregation participants, in rare cases, were not chosen by the people, were invited by the princes or councils. The ordinary congregations were held almost always under the clear sky and there were several thousand people present; interestingly, history will likely repeat itself. One of them, Sretenjska, was introduced on February 2nd 1835, the first Serbian constitution, the Sretenjski Constitution. According to the Law on the National Assembly, which was voted at the St. Andrews Assembly, the assembly was named the Serbian National Assembly, as it was called until the end of its existence in 1918. The first Rules of Procedure was passed in 1870 in the form of a law, when, that same year, the first Law on selecting Members of Parliament was passed. The vote in the Assembly was made loudly, by name, by person, by sitting and by standing up, and secretly. The vote was held individually when voting on the law in general and in all cases when requested by the Government or by 20 MPs. The election of assembly officers was held by a secret vote. The election of MPs was made by selecting an MP on a number of tax heads. At first, one MP was elected to 500 tax heads, then a thousand, then two thousand, three thousand, and finally four and a half thousand tax heads. The number of MPs in the assembly depended on this election formula. There were 437, and later that number ranged between 120 and 160. The large national congregations numbered over 600 MPs. The first assembly committees were, of course, financial, legislative, educational, military, economic and appeal committees. The assembly had the right to survey, as well as investigations into elections and purely administrative issues. It is also interesting that the first laws on the National Assembly stipulated that no one can call the MP to account for what he says in the congregation. The first laws on the National Assembly, and then the constitutions also regulated parliamentary immunity. Without the approval of the National Assembly, MPs could not call for responsibility, detention, or closure, even if caught in action, the opinion of the National Assembly had to be heard about whether they should be prosecuted. The parliamentary issues and proposals for interpretation, application and complaints of the citizens of the Assembly are as old as the Assembly. For example, in its meeting from 1897 to 1900, the Assembly resolved 445 parliamentary proposals, 217 impelations and more than 300 requests and complaints from citizens. The MP could not have been under 30 years old, and one of the conditions for obtaining a parliamentary term was to pay a certain amount of money to the state in the name of the direct tax. It was a serious state and a serious Serbian Parliament. Of course, it is true that there was an institution of parliamentary oaths, but it had a whole other weight. The MPs had already taken an oath to the Sanhedrin. Her text, something changed, was officially entered into the 1869 Constitution and everything later stopped. But then the Constitution was a serious act that had to be respected. The oath that you are proposing earlier looks like Tito's honorary pioneering word in the assignment of pioneer scarfs, with the red scarfs now yellowed, and instead of the JBT badge, a BT badge is made. Furthermore, the oath seems kind of circular, because first the president and ministers swear to the MPs, and then the MPs swear to God, ask whom. As provided for in Article 46 of this Law, each MP shall respect the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. No declarative statement, with the character of Titus’s honorable pioneering words, will oblige the MP to carry out his duty in a committed, fair, safe, and faithful way to the Constitution. It is therefore important that there is a public opinion on the work of the Assembly, which allows citizens to have their own opinion and assessment of how much their representatives really respect human and minority rights, civil liberties and how much they truly serve the best interests of citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. So much for that epic newspaper of parliamentary oaths. As far as the guard is concerned, it seems like the MPs are coming in on the red carpet, which, thank God, has not passed Biden, and at the entrance they are welcomed by the Šutanovec Guard, while at the other end of the city people cut their fingers or lie on the rail, as in the "Top List of Supernationalists". At the beginning of today's session, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Markicevic, quite rightly asked the question of Parliament's president – why have we paused for two months? You're saying the MPs didn't ask the opposition to work, and it remains unclear how we were inactive when we were in continuous communication with the citizens, who no longer have the nerves for your obsessing and rotten promises. If it was really necessary to adopt an emergency procedure to pass a law on the National Assembly, why did you not accept the draft law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia submitted by the DSS-NS parliamentary group, which has been posted on the Assembly's website since 6 March 2009? You didn't even think about adopting it just because it is proposed by opposition MPs, and so much about how it is necessary to restore dignity to the Assembly as the highest representative body and the holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that the ruling light coalition is in so much paranoia that it has to control everything itself and until the end, and then fictitiously invites the representatives of the opposition to include them in the working group that is appointing the already finished text. If you don't have a true answer to the question why we haven't been in plenary for two months, there's a people, we really represent them. The election on Vozdovac has shown that this yellow balloon is definitely blown, despite the slogans of the type "Schengen White, Vozdovac wants you", which is just a more developed version of the older graphite "Someone puts drugs in our heroin". Drugs in the form of marketing balls, absolute control of information, bribement of safe voters, pruning concern for young people who have more choices left: to go into the white world and try to do something, to drug, to stab themselves in front of schools or to go through their parents, so they apply direct auto-destruction by lying under cars and trains. It is nice to hear that you in power find that citizens are very hard to live and that MPs are obliged to share the fate of citizens. As much as you really share it, although it can't be seen, it could still be seen as the tip of the iceberg in a shy report by the State Audit Committee, which still bypassed large fish. These rare and legally protected specimens of catfish, cramp or carp, which carry watches in the amount of the price of two-bedroom apartments, while driving limos against the value of life support of a pensioner, will not be found in any report or in the hunting law that is coming next week. You say this law returns to the Assembly the control function of executive activities or, as the people call it, excellent authorities. Fine, then why did the Assembly not have the right to declare even such a soft version of the auditor's report, and how is it that it is often allowed for both the president of Serbia and many ministers to simply disobey the resolution of the highest legislative body? The return of confidence in the institutions of the system will not be possible as long as you are headed by a NATO lobbyist, who acts as Red Butler in "Wasted with the Wind", and not caring for a resolution on Serbia's military neutrality says, "Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn". The accident is just his – I don't give a shit what the free translation of this famous sentence reads in accordance with the character of the person who says, in this case, is – I don't give a shit about both the Parliament and Serbia. If this wasn't just speculation showing the fact that the 200 intellectuals' initiative to call a referendum on Serbia's NATO entry was well-infected by the spirits of domestic tycoons and foreign ambassadors, who had stepped up pressure on their speakers, so before the Russians also realized that Russia's relationship with Serbia that would enter NATO would not be the same as...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35171	People's MPs, the time that is at the disposal of your MP group has been used. The word is made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, and after that, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35172	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS parliamentary group supports the draft law on the National Assembly and will vote for it. In doing so, I would like to repeat something that the representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group presented on behalf of the group. It is an invitation to all of us, both the position and the opposition, to use these next days to look at each of the proposed solutions in the most serious, most responsible way, to look at each of the proposed amendments, without vanity and no matter who submitted it, and all with one goal, to come to the best solutions, that is, at this moment, at the best text of the Law on the National Assembly. The Law on the National Assembly is above all an obligation, the obligation of the National Assembly to settle the issue of importance for the exercise of the responsibilities of the National Assembly and, of course, to act as MPs. The regulation of these issues by adopting this law does not pop up, but rather consistently implements the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters. Just by passing this law we are bringing the Assembly into an equal constitutional-system position, because the other branches of the authorities have received their laws, both the judiciary and the government. In order to get to the law, we left from the constitutional position of the National Assembly. Therefore, since its role, since the institution is a constitutional and legislative authority, from having its powers carried out through functions of legislative, electoral, control and representative function. It is not the purpose of this law to extend jurisdiction, it is not the aim of this law to bring about something new that is not foreseen by the Constitution, the aim is to regulate its own relations, the internal structure and the organisation of the Assembly, in the most efficient and qualitative way to perform these functions. We have witnessed in previous years that the Assembly has rightly been accused as an organ that is very inefficient in terms of law-making. So ineffectiveness in the legislative procedure. The problem can be said to have been removed and the very fact that the Assembly passed over 300 laws in the previous year provides an answer to this question. But new issues have been raised before the Assembly, which put before the Assembly new challenges this year, which is primarily that parliament, the general assessment, is insufficiently used by powers to control the executive authority and especially to monitor law enforcement. A lot of laws have been passed. There's a lot of work ahead of this congregation to monitor how these laws are implemented. Of course, in order for us to do this as effectively as possible, and I think that this year will be a priority, we need the Assembly, and the law is the first step on that path, to take the first visible steps in establishing its own independence and independence. I say, first visible steps, because I have no intention of being unrealistic that it is possible to accomplish it immediately. There is no strong assembly, a strong parliament, without the full financial independence of the Sujpština and full financial and political independence of the MPs. The time for something like that isn't yet. I'm holding on to the formulation to be the first visible step. And what does that mean? That the Assembly, and the adoption of this law, creates conditions, independently determines the internal organisation, structure and mode of action, that the Assembly adopts the rules and procedures for its operation on its own, that the Assembly provides or cares for the security and manner of safeguarding of the Assembly, the protection of Parliament, MPs, etc. and, above all, self-organizes and disposes of financial resources. It is not the congregation’s goal to just formally satisfy the principles of equality, but the necessary need for the congregation to accomplish its functions. Also, I would like to say that the proposal for this law does not put the Assembly in a special position, does not give it a special position that falls short of the principle of equality, but rather one that enables the Assembly to exercise quality and effective jurisdiction and also, an important question, prevents it from being influenced or distracted by work. When it comes to the basic functions of the Assembly, I will only be held for two. First, when it comes to the control function of the Assembly, I think it's question number one this year, when the Assembly should pay attention to that. This is also directly related to a number of members of the law which discusses the duties of the board, the extension of the rights of the committee to assist in the exercise of that function. The second thing I'm trying to say is that it's a representative function. I want to remind the public that the Assembly is the only branch of government that has both the position and the opposition, and nowhere else is it in one place. It is a fact that must be respected, as is the fact that the opposition is also very important for the functioning of the Assembly. After all, she's just a second position relative to the position. For these reasons, I would like to point out that it should be clear to all of us that a strong parliament, with good resources, is of general interest or should be of general interest to all. In order to achieve this, to achieve this understanding and avoid politicising labour promotion issues, it is necessary to co-operate between parliamentary groups, to agree on a plan for the work and development of parliament and for these reasons to introduce a new body, a college of the National Assembly, with a view to agreeing, agreeing on both the agenda and the issues and all that ensuing the Assembly. A good deal with all parliamentary groups is better than the best Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the public, I want to point out one thing, I think it's a good thing that in law it's very precise and clear regulation that the Assembly is the most open body in the state. She's the most open one yet. No body, no branch of government in the state has been as open as the Assembly, but it is an opportunity for us, given that the rating of the Assembly is very low, that all of us are doing a bit of trying to bring it down, starting from ourselves, through those outside and inside, the media, etc., it is our chance to take the quality of work, dignity, to vote for public opinion. By discussing the right issues and the right solutions, we should impose ourselves, but at the same time try to get the public to know the importance of our role and the impact on the everyday lives of citizens, in order to avoid public criticism as little as possible. Very briefly, you have seen that the role of the National Assembly committee is great, and I will quote just some, looking at the state of the government-led policy, monitoring the law enforcement, which we lack, monitoring the work of the Government and other bodies and bodies, whose work is supervised by the National Assembly. There is also one possibility of introducing a deputy board member to work more efficiently. I have to say that I had and that I still have a reserve on whether it's a good solution, but I'm willing to face all the arguments in the debate on this law for the next few days and then say what's the best solution. In the end, I would like to point out in particular the possibility of the Assembly to make itself, to establish itself and to distribute its budget. That is a very important question, the issue of financial independence of the Assembly, of course, when I say so, I also think of the property it uses. Of course, it is the obligation of the Assembly, and it must be publicly said that, in doing so, opportunities for economic and general social conditions must be respected, therefore, by a form of self-limiting of the congregation. The most important three things I want to point out are self-determination and availability of funds, which is that the Government can suspend, postpone or limit budget implementation and, more importantly, budget implementation control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35173	Thirteen minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, followed by MP Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35174	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, during January and in part February, but mostly in January, Serbian citizens through the media had the opportunity to get acquainted with the working version of the draft law on the Assembly, which contained a number of quite, I can say freely, the arrogant decisions which were at least illegal, referred to the very strange status of pension that MPs should receive, to the rest of MPs' terms, on parliamentary salaries. The proposal that lies before us, the Law on the Assembly, though, has been relieved of all these illegal things, but what is the main object of the DSS to this law is that it is quite and essentially empty law, so there is one big pomp, form, but essentially nothing new. On several occasions, Parliament's president also met citizens of Serbia through the media, and the rich and MPs who did not see the proposal, that the law is making several newspapers. The first of them is to take an oath from the MPs. The swearing of an oath in the Assembly makes sense when, in front of MPs who essentially represent the people who elected them, because ten million citizens of Serbia can not sit here today, we are their representatives and before us as representatives of the people are sworn in by the President of the Republic, and by the Prime Minister, and by ministers and judges. So that makes sense then. In front of which MPs should they take an oath? It's just amazing, but I read the president's reply in the media interview as well. She says "people" and what MPs will swear to the people is, she says, "public work of the Assembly". In my humble opinion, the public of work is very important. Serbian citizens also need to know who they are dealing with, who they have chosen, how their representatives represent them here and, ultimately, how they advocate to improve the quality of life of every citizen. But I think through these public transfers of citizens and how they see their representatives here standing up for them when the hall is empty or, let's be a little lighter, partially full, or half empty, after giving the quorum two minutes of ruling majority in the Assembly is gone. The public is also well aware that it is being transmitted directly, which is the course of democratic change of society, in some way and willingly interrupts just when the laws are important, and how important for the citizens of Serbia on the agenda, and then, in some delayed transmission, after midnight, citizens and how they can learn about what their MPs, in the form of MPs they have chosen, have proposed and defended here. So I have also heard several times during today’s day that the ruling majority stand out as the quality of this assembly’s efficiency and boast that they have passed 300 laws in this mandate. It would also be commendable if we could praise that we were all together, MPs and the ruling majority and opposition, talking about these laws, but as I see here, and I see not only from the speeches that were here today, but also from the interviews, and I urge you to read Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic's interview yesterday, to compare the efficiency here with the non-conversation of the laws. Efficient in the congregation is equally not talking about laws. That is not the purpose of the congregation and that is the degradation of the congregation from those who need this congregation to lead. Somehow, most Serbian citizens say this today and how it reminds the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I also think, when I compare the Parliament to that, that and how it reminds you of that time. At the time, there was a famous sentence that the Assembly was a movement bar for law making, and at one point, the talk was that the assembly was inefficient, that the opposition was holding back the work of the Assembly, and the opposition had left the hall and nine laws were passed in one hour. That was very effective, but it's neither democratic nor the purpose of the Assembly. At that time, there was a similar situation as today, the regime media praised such intensive work of the Assembly, while one part of the media said it was a farce from the Assembly, that it was a lascivious democracy. What else is a significant newspaper that is the ultimate range of fantastic democracy, how does this ruling coalition see it? It is the play of the Serbian Anthem at the beginning and end of the regular session. Guys, I'm afraid it's really going to be scary and it's going to humiliate the little level that parliament has, because a few MPs are going to get up at the end of that session while it plays the anthem. That's not the point of an anthem. The big news is that MPs will welcome the guard at the beginning of the regular session. I don't know if it's the essence of parliamentaryism, I'm absolutely sure it isn't, but if you think it is, I hope you can explain all that. So what I heard here today, which I think is the purpose and that should be the purpose of this law, is to raise Parliament's reputation and strengthen Parliament's position in this country. I am absolutely certain that this is not done in this way and that it is quite clear that MPs have to keep an eye on and raise the ratings and reputation of the National Assembly, but each of us does so in his own way, one of us by handing over the drafts of the law, by writing amendments and correcting bad laws, and someone who introduces cheerleaders in this way, says, raising the reputation of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35175	Mr. Miljan Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35176	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that we have failed to reach a consensus on this law. All day long listening to all the previous speakers, I wonder all the time is it possible that there are such conflicting opinions around this law, is it possible that so many lies are being presented and is it possible to interpret one of those same sentences that we read on this side and you on that side? I repeat again, I am truly sorry that we have both sides of this law and why at least today we have not reached consensus. Somehow all of this looks like that famous folk to me that the generals appear after the battle. There are people who did this law, there are people who wrote this law, and when it was like you didn't want to work, you weren't there, and today you're here when it's being criticized. Indeed, you are heartily criticising other people's sincere efforts to improve parliamentaryism and improve the most representative body in our country. Anyone who honestly deals with the state of Serbia, our Serbia, who deals with our society, anyone who honestly deals with politics, will vote in favour of this law. Somehow, it seems to me that all those who today said they didn't want to vote for this law and that they wouldn't support it, it seems to me that they're dealing exclusively with foreigning and purely politics. I'm sorry to tell you this. The G17 plus will certainly support this law, because this is a major step in Serbian democracy and a major step in Serbian parliamentaryism, above all, and that, of course, in advance. It's our obligation to be in Article 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This law regulates the functioning of the highest representative body in our country, and therefore this is one of the most important laws we have recently passed. At the beginning of today's debate, the first speech said – if there were light moments, there was no continuity. It's a big truth, a really big truth. In the day of voting when we vote for this law we will participate in the creation of history, because by adopting this law, and will certainly be adopted, we are in fact ensuring the continuity of Serbian parliamentism, perhaps for the first time in the right way. My personal understanding of tradition gives me the right to be happy about Articles 13 and 14. I am pleased that we are finally introducing an honorary unit of the Serbian Army, because it will finally be intonated with an anthem. Many of you have tried to make fun of all this today, but believe me, whoever went to some parliament outside of this country, it's the most normal there, it's very nice to see and it's nice to have a tradition in your country. I hope it will be understood here too when you see it and hear what it looks like in the right way. In Article 11, if I am not mistaken, there is a way of achieving the public work of our Parliament. It would be no wonder if we didn't say that we guarantee the public of our Parliament's work in this way. Another example of good practice is the formalisation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This will contribute greatly to the efficiency of Parliament's work due to consultations and the coordination of work. The good news is that we've lost the quorum many times, sometimes for objective reasons, sometimes for personal and selfish reasons. The vast independence provides perhaps the most important newspaper of this law. This is the independence of the National Assembly in the sense that it owns its own assets that are necessary for the work of the National Assembly, as well as its own establishment and its own budget. There is a possibility that the finance minister and the government will accept the proposed budget from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also if they do not want it, the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia must be adopted. What is particularly important for the future of our country is international co-operation. I am pleased to mention the permanent delegations of parliamentary assemblies, various international organisations and all other forms of interparliamentary co-operation. Why do I say that? Because this will certainly help the goal of our state policy, which is a normal life and it is full membership in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35177	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we fully agree with the SNS that the Serbian Parliament should have a law that will regulate its powers, rights and obligations of MPs. However, I can say that I did not expect such an act to be found in the Serbian Parliament. Until this moment, I don't know who the real creator of this law is. We received more information in the previous part of the session, even one head of the parliamentary group, which consists of the majority in this assembly, said that this was the work of the Working Group and that the Working Group has existed for two years, forgetting that the Assembly's meeting does not last for two years and that this Working Group was last met in December 2008. No one can convince me that these 128 MPs have written this law. The task force exists, but it doesn't work. I'm interested -- who's the real lawmaker, are those the heads of parliament's groups that make up the majority, did this law write by the president of the assembly, did the Secretary of Parliament, did the employees in the Assembly write us parliamentary law or did someone come from Mars and give us this paper? I listen to my fellow MPs here, my predecessor said - someone's effort. I ask the question – whose effort? Who wrote the law? We know it was signed by some MPs, and I believe that the vast majority of them didn't even read what she was signing. That's the problem, which is why this law is being criticised. It was tried at some session to get this phantom law to be agreed by the heads of the parliamentary groups. It didn't work. Then why did you enter this procedure? As I recall, when the Constitution was written, the presidents of political parties met, the heads of parliamentary groups, the president of the assembly, the President of the Republic and the Constitution were met in two months. What was the problem here with one consensus of political parties, with the heads of the parliamentary groups, finally making a real bill on the National Assembly? If others are making us a cap on our constitution, then this congregation council is to disband and to discuss elections, because by accepting that we are the bearers of something, and we are not, we have humiliated ourselves first, gentlemen of the ruling majority. The law itself is full of indeterminateness and is often completely contrary to what is happening in this House and which, unfortunately, will continue to happen, whether you vote or not. Already in Article 7 of the Fantomial Law on the National Assembly, it is said that the National Assembly, within its responsibilities, performs the following functions – representative, legislative. Now let someone explain to me - how can the MP, as a member of the National Assembly, represent the National Assembly, one of the 250, play a legislative role, when if he submits the amendment and its amendment is 151, he will not be able to discuss it? Now someone will say -- that's the subject of the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You cannot pass a law on the National Assembly if you do not touch both business obligations and business parts, as you have touched in some part of this bill, and even the Constitution you have touched. How do you mean? It says - control; we have the right to ask parliamentary questions here, so we have the right to place mistrust on certain ministers and on the whole government. And what does that come down to? We even have the right to the thematic sessions when the government's representatives here respond, so first the MPs who support the government must be drafted, then the others. That's what you do at your party meetings, or it's a wish that, well, there's little for the ministers that they're in every news, but that they show up here, that they're still doing their promotion here. Here's how much the control role is -- two months Serbia's Parliament hasn't sat down. What control role did the Serbian Parliament play for the past two months? You expect the opposition to form a agenda, call on the thematic sessions, ask for a report from the ministries. Even if we do, the question is whether you from the ruling majority, because you have no obligation to accept it. In what way can the MPs perform the control function, how do you declare the meetings of the congregation’s working bodies closed and not let MPs who are not members of that assembly committee attend the sessions, what is also an embarrassment? Come on, tell me. Which MP could attend the Security Committee's session if it was declared closed? I will tell you, you even threw MPs out of the Finance Committee session because the session was not public. What is the difference between a MP who is a member of the Committee and one who is not, when it comes to the session? There's only a difference in voting, not at all. The MP can attend every session, and it will not be decided by the one who submits the report, nor by the director of the BIA, nor by the minister of the interior, nor by the committee itself. That's the right they're guaranteed by the Constitution. Will you do the control function that way? In article 28, you're introducing a newspaper. Madam Chairman, I would ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which are still in force, you take measures for those who earn. In Article 28. The National Assembly has its own committees, which is said to be elected by board members and deputies. Now, come answer me, if you are as ambassadors of security in the performance of your duties, explain what the deputy board members will do to you? You can't collect the quorum. You made it only in the morning that there must be 83 MPs here, then he can only sit in the chair and give the list of acts. You're so zealous MPs. Those who say the reputation of the Serbian Parliament has been brought down should first look at themselves, because they voted in favour of such changes to the Rules of Procedure, because they gave themselves the right to come here in the morning to apply and leave. It's no one else. Then you wonder what this is about the public to the National Assembly. You blame the opposition for that, and you forget when you blame the opposition for that, that often in our people the Assembly is still called, at least in the media, and parliament. What does that word mean? That it's a pay phone. It's the only place in Serbia where we can completely evenly oppose differences, and completely legal. And you have taken away the right of the people's messengers from the ruling majority. Is that by order of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, I don't know whose, but you've allowed us to be humiliated. Then you're surprised that the press is taking pictures of you besides everything and writing everything and everything about us, about all of us, not just about you. So he says, that the number of committee members is chosen on a proposal from the MPs' groups in proportion to the total number of MPs in the National Assembly. I don't mind that, but why did you give up that idea in the next position? Why didn't you apply both the president's number and the number of vice presidents? It is that we stick to this arrangement somehow, but the fact is that it only depends on the goodwill of the majority. We're all here with the same rights and obligations. You only have one more, you have to support the government, I don't have to as an opposition, and we don't have to, and our job is to tear down that government, or at least show it as incompetent. Where do we have the right only to do that? Here in the Assembly. You've been challenging us all along. There's another concept being reintroduced by the Secretary-General, and I'd like to say in my last position, in article 34, here's how you were expert while you were writing the law. It is said - the secretary general has a deputy who helps him in his work and replaces him in the event of his absence or prevention. It could have been the deputies, but here's the spelling mistake we're not going to consider. The Deputy Secretary-General shall appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from the Secretary-General, with the agreement of the President of the National Assembly. I don't see what the president of the National Assembly's consent will do, but let's keep it that way. However, the Deputy Secretary-General's office ceases on the day of the appointment of the deputy secretary-general of the new convenes the National Assembly, the resignation or the resolution. You have forgotten one more sentence or a few words - by stopping the secretary's duty. The election of the new secretary ceases the duty of the old deputy secretary, as the old deputy suggested them. You can see that this was done pretty fast. In Article 41, we come to exactly what I told you at the beginning of my presentation. The MP shall, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, have the right to take part in the debate and to decide on the draft laws and other acts at meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies. Later when we reach the board's jurisdiction, we see that a MP who is not a member of the board can participate in the committee's work without the right to vote. What about these secret sessions and why and why not put it into law, that the MP can, whether the session is open to the public or not, attend that session whether he is a member of the board or not? In article 54, I can say that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the term of office of the People's Parliament and the Assembly continues until a new assembly is established. Article 54 of the proposal states that, in the case of the disbandation of the National Assembly, the competent committee of the Assembly, it only performs ongoing or urgent tasks, and in particular: resolving the mandate-immunity issues, achieving international co-operation in accordance with this law, certain cases of resolving material-status issues of the Members of the People's Parliament and other elected and appointed persons, and if the tasks are related to the legal deadline or require the needs of the State. Here in some not-so-far-away past, the political question was – could the Government, when the Assembly was disbanded, be doing its job? Of course he can. He can even propose laws. I remember that the government of Zoran Zivkovic, when the Serbian Parliament was disbanded, submitted a draft budget for 2004. It is that there was no political will to adopt the budget and that assembly did not decide on the budget or any other budget, but the assembly could have made a full decision and set the budget law for 2004. Why do you limit those rights guaranteed by the Constitution to the National Assembly and the People's MPs? If the Constitution says the term of office of the MP goes until the election of a new MP, then that story is over. And when the Assembly disbands, it has the right to ambush, to decide, to make laws until a new one is established. Are you saying that these two, three, four months, how far can it go from disbanding the Assembly to establishing a new one, there is no one who could do the control work on the government of the Republic of Serbia? Or will the government determine what are the important issues for the functioning of the state? And now which government? So who's the Technical Assembly, then it's technical and government, how come? This story that many have touched, that the Assembly is finally independent and that this bill has our own assembly budget, maybe it would be okay if it wasn't for a member of 66. Since I know that many fellow MPs have not even read the law properly, the secretary of the National Assembly determines the draft budget, he is referred to the committee responsible that also determines it. So, changing it or leaving it, it is proposed to the Ministry of Finance Affairs and the Government, they can adopt it, they can reject it, it must, in such a original form, be referred to the Assembly's budget voting procedure for that year. However, the government cannot suspend, postpone or restrict the implementation of the assembly budget without the agreement of the National Assembly president. Why do we give the president of the National Assembly in the first place so much authority because everyone who was the speaker of the assembly, including the present, says that they are only the first among the equals, and that we put him in an extremely delicate and difficult situation if one of these occurs? Or to leave how strong he is to resist the members of the government, the presidents of his parties, not to be removed or that agreement should, if not the Assembly, then at least the board in charge of the financial affairs, since he was involved in determining the draft budget for the Serbian Parliament. Therefore, fellow MPs, I claim that this law is not good, that it is difficult to fix even with amendments, that it is written in haste, that there is only something that happens. I see that a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament will be brought here from the law. I would like the new Rules of Procedure not to be brought in this way, that working groups really participate in it, that the rights of the Members of Parliament are really respected. Do not allow an excuse to restrict the rights of MPs to be effective in the work. Parliament is not as efficient as the law is passed, Parliament is as efficient as it works during the year, because we have had situations to find 15, 20, and 25 of the bill, with such a restrictive rule of law, it all ended in a few hours. Ask yourself a question, since it is common and an excuse to rationalise or to save – is it less damage when the Assembly does, has a quality debate, when the Government who writes and proposes laws knows that the laws will be well criticised in the Assembly and that it must therefore make good laws, however long it takes or better to pass bad laws with a brief debate? Somebody tell me what's more damage then, what more will the state cost – bad law or a few days more work in the Assembly? I'm telling you, the consequences produced by the bad laws are much more expensive than a few days of work in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35179	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35180	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, from what's been said, I cannot conclude why you won't vote for this law, since what you've been talking about, challenging the constitutionality of the provisions of the law, is actually proof that you haven't compared the law and the Constitution. In fact, Article 45 of the Law states that the mandate of the MP ceases by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the MPs of the next assembly. So we have not suspended the constitutional provision by any chance, but also Article 109. The constitution, the final position, says that the National Assembly, which has been disbanded, only performs ongoing or urgent tasks under the law. In the event of a declaration of war or emergency, its full jurisdiction shall be restored. This constitutional provision unequivocally states that the disbanded Assembly does not have full jurisdiction. Only if you think that past these laws and against the Constitution we should establish the full authority of parliament, then I don't think it understands what it means when the Assembly is disbanded, so why can't the disbanded Assembly have a full mandate? The government law defines what the government's powers are in case the government is resigning. There are also limited powers and the government, and in this law it is clearly defined what the government's powers are in the event of the government being left behind. As for working in cases where the work of the congregation authorities is closed to the public, then I want to tell you that all procedures and procedures are foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. So we think it's not the matter of the law and that in cases where some sessions, in the interest of security, are closed to the public, the conditions under which the committee is then working, the way the decision to close to the public, are regulated by the rules of procedure, not this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35181	I give the word to Mrs Natasha Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not think it is disputed between us that the adoption of the Law on the Assembly is of great importance. First of all, it is the fulfillment of a constitutional obligation that stands before us, a constitutional obligation that wanted to highlight the importance of the principle of division of power, and we are obliged to implement this principle by adopting this law into action. The adoption of this law is also important because it specifies the framework for the functioning of our political system and for the functioning of democracy in Serbia. What, in my opinion, is the most important thing that this law adopts? I think I will agree with my colleagues who have said that the issue of the property and independence of the National Assembly in defining its finances is something that has key importance in this law. If the National Assembly needs, in accordance with the Constitution, to achieve a supervisory or control role over the work of the Government, then it is necessary to have both independence and mechanisms for self-determining its budget from the funds for its work. Of course, reasonable and responsible, in accordance with some of the principles of solidarity and society in which it works. This law provides that in the event of disagreement between the Ministry of Finance and the committee of directors, which determines the draft general budget, then the final word of the Assembly's committee is. Such a draft assembly budget should be included by the government in its proposal for a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is a major shift for the financial independence of the Assembly, for the principle of power-sharing and for its implementation and operation. What I also find extremely important, and I don't think it has been fully highlighted in this debate so far, is that this law opens the National Assembly to a much greater extent towards other institutions and organisations. This is provided for in Article 50, where it is possible, of course, to address representatives of other bodies, organisations and bodies, depending on the agenda and the issues we are discussing. I believe that the application of this provision will have a very great importance in the way we achieve and strengthen our capacity to perform legislative, control and representative functions. What is also important is that the law is a very detailed issue of international co-operation. I particularly welcome that co-operation with the European Parliament is specified in this framework. For now, it is, of course, at the level of interparliamentary dialogue, and we know that when everyone in the EU ratifys the Association and Association Agreement, a joint committee will be formed between the European Parliament and the National Assembly. There have been a lot of criticism about the introduction of certain rituals, such as performing an anthem and setting up units of the Serbian Army outside the House of Assembly in certain situations, such as when a regular session begins or a regular session ends. I think we'll all agree that most parliaments actually have such rituals and these rituals are very important for the state protocol. They aim to highlight the importance of a certain moment and the importance of a particular institution. It may seem strange to someone or an unnecessary newspaper, but this, in my opinion, wants to symbolically strengthen the National Assembly and to point out that the Assembly is the source of the legitimacy of each government and that it is the most representative body of citizens. Of course, the decisive impact on improving the reputation of this institution will have several factors and some of them I would like to say a few words. First of all, Parliament's reputation will depend on how we perform our basic functions. Do we bring good, clear and above all applicable laws? Is the legislative procedure transparent and can we hear citizens as lawmakers? Sometimes it seems to me that the Government doesn't understand enough exactly the complementarity of our roles, that it is the one that determines new policies with new laws, but that our task is to make the law better and more applicable, because as a Assembly of Questions we can look at in a broader way. Today, decisions in political life are made much faster than before, and that speed no doubt favors the executive authority and strengthens the government in the political system rather than favours the Assembly and its strict procedure. Here I think we need to be more careful, not to succumb to one wrong conclusion that quantity can replace quality in the debate on certain legal proposals. Also, what is important and what characterizes today's political life is that political decisions, in establishing new policies, proposing new laws, governments are increasingly based on their science proposals, in a professional opinion and there are, of course, great advantages to the Assembly, because they have a large administrative apparatus and can, of course, afford large and relevant expert analyses. If we want to pass laws more competently, if we want to control government work more competently, then we need to strengthen the professional congregation services. Because how are we going to assess whether some draft law is in line with EU law if there is no expert on European law in the Assembly who is able to give us a relevant opinion? In order not to base our work on mere faith or mistrust in the government's opinion, I think we need to strengthen our research centres and our professional services, see what other parliaments are doing in this regard. That is why I think it is a good solution that the law provides for scientists and experts to be called to committee sessions and thus to strengthen the even greater achievement of the legislative role of the Assembly. The reputation of our parliament, of course, will depend on how we represent ourselves to the public, and will depend on how the media writes and reports about us. I think that in this sense it is necessary to improve our relations with the public, that we have much more to use modern technologies, to provide Internet transfers from the session of the Assembly, and that our website becomes indeed a relevant source of information about the work of the Assembly. The development of our parliament should lead to a greater balance between the influence of political parties in parliament and the independence of MPs. It is certain that it is in the nature of political pluralism and in the culture of parliamentary behaviour that political parties play a major role in parliament and that role cannot be ignored. In addition, political parties articulate citizens' interests, they are the ones linking institutions and citizens. But any foreigning that is exaggerated, which is negative or ritualistic, is something that undermines Parliament's reputation. In this sense, what I expect us to do in the next period and regulate in the next period is to establish the right measure between what is the influence of political parties and what is the independence of MPs, which is the free mandate of MPs and what is to strengthen the position of the MP. It is my belief that it is necessary for parliament as a political community and as political people to deal in a serious way and to understand obstacles, as well as to follow what other developed democratic countries use as good solutions in their work. Because regardless of all the criticisms, justified or not justified, without parliament there is no democracy and anyone who undermines parliament and threatens its reputation is suspicious of the views of its democratic intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35183	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to hear Mrs. Nada Kolundži, although I admit that it is really not easy for her, and maybe she wouldn't even have to answer all the remarks that some MPs have made, and I must admit that I, too, part of the previous, don't think about Mrs. Vukkovic, but the previous discussions of this gentleman in question, I didn't understand, and, in practice, by listening to him and by looking at this agonizing expression of his face, I have really come to the temptation to ask you or to insert a picture to make it easier for individuals to understand this, or that you might possibly make some larger letters in these drafts of the law. The fact is, as you say, that the task force has been working on this bill for some two years with different intensity. When it is divided by the number of members that this law has, it comes to the fact that approximately these extraordinary intellectual efforts took a group of people about ten days to surprise each of these individual members. In view of the alleged work in all this, I expected that this law would be far more comprehensive and that you would regulate many of the things you missed. This is clear that this is practically just makeup and that the only reason you might have to say that – here, now we have a law on the National Assembly, but absolutely you can't say any of the only advantages that Serbian citizens will have, whether the MPs or someone else when this law comes into force in a few days. The only possible benefit you boast of and the only goal you will achieve by adopting this law is some kind of financial independence of parliament. The question arises – why does the financial independence of parliament, if there is no freedom of speech here, and this is obvious, because we have been witnesses today, as well as citizens of the whole of Serbia, in which some MPs have been interrupted in their completely legitimate discussions. I have to say even that, anyone can say here that the text of the oath is layish and is in accordance with the Constitution, is in line with parliamentary democracy, even if we are in favour of maybe applying Sharia law tomorrow in Serbia. What is forbidden is that in a violent way we try to amend any provision of the Constitution. But you cannot ban MPs in parliament from thinking and giving some different attitudes and different ideas from those you might see as the best for Serbia. At the same time with this financial independence comes never greater political subordination and that is why this law cannot have absolutely any effect. Are you also telling us if there is a member in the law that you are forcing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to treat MPs in a decent manner? As it did not occur to you, instead of writing that the MPs are obliged to address each other with respect, to write that both ministers and those who speak, and who are guests in this home, I also think of the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, the Secretariat of legislation, that you did not write them, and you did not prescribe the obligation to address MPs with respect. And you very well, dear Mrs. Kolundjia, you know that it has not often been so, starting with an evasive relationship, to inappropriate remarks made in this room by ministers. One of the key issues of the Serbian parliament's future is the future in work. No one has informed us, it was the office of the President of the Assembly, that even at the moment we are discussing this, in my opinion, poor but extremely important law, there is no direct transmission on the second channel. It's not because at this point it's more important to ski or it's more important to ride with a bomb or a giant slalom or I don't know what it is anymore. It is obvious that the political subjugation of this congregation continues to be pushed from day to day. If you say that, I heard this just a moment ago from my colleague, that television internet transmissions will be provided, does that mean that you accept the SRS amendment, or do you draw such a conclusion based on that formulation where you say it will be possible? There's a possibility right now. There is an interest of citizens, that is doubtless, but there is no political will for you to carry out and transfer directly to work. During his time, Mr Djindjic characterised direct television transmissions as "conditio sinequ non", a condition without which no parliamentary democracy can exist in Serbia. Are you walking away from Djindjic's path, to whom you are so pleased to call, whenever you need some kind of pick-up? Take a look at the archives of congregation presentations, and yours. You may have been in another political party at the time, but I assume you've advocated the same values. It is high time the Democratic Party realized that democratic rules must exist even when it is not in power. You can't say, democratic rules must exist for us, but we'll deny ourselves the same rights we're looking for. As far as the term of office is concerned, it remains undefined, and you have had to just think, by law on the National Assembly, define the issue of mandates in the manner referred to in Article 102. The only reason is to allow further manipulation, to have a group of people here who, if necessary, will vote in the way that suits you. That one of the people who has a fifth term here, like Veroljub Arsic, would accidentally vote in favour of the regionalization law. You had to do it, but you postponed it, so you said, we'll do it through the Law on People's MPs, and you know very well that before the end of the term of office this National Assembly won't be passed. This idea that you are trying to promote about independent MPs I must admit that it is very interesting, but it would be good to apply it through other institutions and through other levels of government, so to speak -- here we will have an independent government from now on. From now on, we'll have independent ministers. Someone will choose them after Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé, but they will then, after the promise and swear that they will act, perform and do what they think of. So We shall have independent ministers, but the question is asked, What will they be independent of? Will they be independent of the pre-election promises? Will they be independent of the exposé? Will they be independent of the morals? In the end, as you've seen, that's exactly what this is all about. You cannot say that the abolition, and that is what Mr. Bosko Ristic said, the influence of parties on MPs strengthens the link between MPs and citizens. It's something that's completely pointless. The question is, what responsibility do independent MPs have to whom? You are ignoring a persistent fact, no one who has been elected as a MP from a list has forced or been on the list to run for office, or to accept the mandate from that election list. Each of us signed 250 before his mandate was verified, of course he signed to accept the candidacy. After the election, when given the mandate, he also had to sign a statement that he voluntarily accepted the mandate. Is there more responsibility than responsibility to the citizens, whom we promised at the time of the election campaign what we would stand for. Then these people came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so they pro-Europeanly evolved overnight and turned the turkey upside down. It is something that does not exist in any country's parliamentary practice and you cannot compare England with Serbia. Each country has its own parliamentary specificities and find me one country in Europe or in the world that has copied the system of another country, political, legal and every other country, and that has worked. The specificity of Serbia's political system in recent years is buying MPs and you know it very well. The only question is when it corresponds to the ruling majority and when not. And as you expect the Messenger to resist the tycoons as an individual, to resist the drug lords. You know very well, Mrs. Kolundzija, that Mr. Saric has also funded some opposition parties. Look, if we're talking so much about determining the origin of the property, I publicly invite you as a representative of the government, determine the origin of the assets that are being spent in SNS campaigns. Let's see where those millions came from. A million and 663 thousand dinars cost 30 minutes on TV B92. Do you know how many Voždovac municipalities I'm talking about, gave the party from the budget - 40,000 dinars. They couldn't pay for a few seconds, not 30 minutes, and they had a few of those terms. Let's figure out where that huge money that individuals are spending at this time, extremely hard. You were talking about the oath. I'll read only one part of the oath they took and laid MPs and SRS committees. He says, "I swear as a People's Messenger, I swear by the almighty God, I swear by my Orthodox faith, I swear by my name and honor, I swear by the glory of my ancestors and the future of my descendants." He goes on to say, "As I fulfill this oath and honor, so help me God." Do you think that ever again those who have sworn such an oath in church, before God, stepped down, can they be trusted by the citizens of Serbia? Do you think you're going to make any commitment to this oath that's provided for by the bill, which, you'll admit, is incomparably milder than that by individuals. Mr. Arsic passed five times. I'm surprised that the SNS didn't make the amendment and said – the oath takes seven days. They invented that the oath before God, as a can of sardines, has a certain duration, and when it is seven days, they come and say, the term has expired. Maybe you're still not too late to install it, so you can tell if it's 7, 15, 30, whether it's like a meat cut, like a sardine or something. What's the expiration date? Mr. Nikolic spoke, and I didn't get a chance to answer him then, he spoke of a ban on the SRS. It's an idea that, I must admit, so far some in the DS have represented, but I think we'll agree that this is the idea that Mr. Nenad Chanak has inherited most so far. He is the one who has insisted for many years on banning the SRS, but at least he is consistent in it. Mr Nikolic has only recently done so after his pro-European evolution. I must admit that I was surprised at the beginning of where your former official, visionary mayor, Mr. Knezevic, moved to the SNS, said he wondered if in the League of Social Democrats at Nenad Canka, he would first negotiate with him and then choose for others. Perhaps that offer was far more generous. So I'm going to read one more sentence from a once-respected parliamentarian, a once-respected member of this house, to see how he spoke of these things a few years ago, that's before the new constitution was passed. I will remind you that the constitution was agreed by both the SRS and the DS and all relevant political forces at the time. That's when he talked about Mr. Bogoljub Karic. He, in order not to look like, I guess that same gentleman, stayed on several falls, but he took off two or three moles. Be careful what he says: "I don't think the party of Bogoljub Karic could enter parliament because no one can enter parliament without elections." I couldn't agree more. Then we'd be the first country in which a party became a parliamentary year and a half after the election. In the west, which is the principle governed by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the MP is allowed to step down from the parliamentary group, but it is unacceptable to change the political party, and it is particularly unacceptable for a party to make it parliamentary by way of its entry. The meeting of the heads of parliament in the Serbian Parliament is currently under way. I think that's where they'll come in and see who thinks about democracy and who thinks about morality. Today, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, present citizens, once again, the opportunity to see who thinks about democracy and who thinks about morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35185	Mr. Veroljub Arsic will use the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35186	I would like to address the previous speaker, since he has repeatedly called me, I will dare him, too, Mr. Sarovic. First of all, Mr. Sarovic, don't say things you don't know or don't know. I didn't take the oath five times but once, but if you say five times, then there's probably a deadline. So it's a little contrary to your claims. When it was the Regionalization Act, I didn't vote by chance, I didn't vote on that law at all, so don't spread that misinformation either. Mr. Sarovic, we are now talking about the Law on the National Assembly, not me, not Mr. Nikolic, not the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia. The fact is that the reputation of the National Assembly and the Members of the People has been quite ruined, and I can tell you, Mr. Sarovic, that you have played a great role in this. Especially when I remember that there were newspaper reports that you were raising millions from the Assembly's register, while you were also a committee member in the Belgrade City Assembly, and you allegedly traveled from Vranj. Because of such and similar procedures and other colleagues today's Assembly has this look and this is how it is appreciated among citizens, and among journalists, and among all. One more thing, Mr. Sarovic, you haven't been here in almost two years, but let me tell you, since you broke up with the SRS, there's been a lot of you who stayed and attacked this new parliamentary group. There's another fact, whatever they were attacking more, everything was kind of going to the back row. Leave you and MP groups to Serbia, and to Tomislav Nikolic, and to us, take care of your party. You'll need a lot of work, especially when we look at the election on the Leader, when we look at the elections in Kostolc, when we look at other municipalities where you didn't even cross the census. Leave us, torture your worries, your torments. It's the only way to save the party. It is not true that Mr Nikolic ever said that he would abolish the SRS, except when you started writing criminal charges to the UN tribunal and overrun his word, his strategy, his policy. That's the problem. So, Mr. Sarovic, to stay in that second row, so you won't be in the donkey benches, leave us alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35187	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35188	Mr. Arsic, I don't think you're really someone to talk about anyone's honesty, and certainly you're not the one to talk about mine. I, Mr. Arsic, have, unlike you, proved my honesty the moment I stayed in the SRS. Unlike you, who are under very strange circumstances one two months after you are, it's hard to find the right word, but you've been flying around the party like a fly without a head, dragging MPs by the hand. I remind you that Tomislav Nikolic stole the blanco resignations of all SRS MPs, so you, Mr. Arsic, flew down the halls in the 3rd in Zemun Square, dragged the MPs by the hand, hijacked the ID cards and signed new blank resignations. Two months later, you took from our parliamentary group a used secretary and a used computer. We asked you to return the used computer, so you can keep the secretary, but please, Mr. Arsic, don't talk about honesty anymore. Just one more thing to say, and now, Mr. Arsic, I am a councilman in the City Assembly and a National MP, and those functions are compatible, as you can see, in accordance with the law, like the functions I performed while I was in Vranje Coordinator of the SRS were compatible. There is no Serbian Progressive Party in the City Assembly, and there I have scattered them, Mr Arsic, and that is why I have returned to this parliament too, and you should know that. As for criminal charges, alleged reports that we filed with The Hague tribunal, you know, I've been intrigued since the beginning of this pro-European evolution process that you've been through. I may not be the kind of European you are, but I know that, for example, when a cabbage is getting sour, it takes at least a few weeks, even if it's about that rapid acidification. Looks like you, Mr. Arsic, have been acidified overnight, you've evolved Europeanly very quickly, but right now it's a chance to see if this pro-European evolution has really worked. You, Mr. Arsic, are part of a parliamentary group who is ready to vote on the Srebrenica resolution. Your deputy president says he's ashamed of belonging to a people whose members committed such a terrible crime. You don't run away from a word - genocide, and you have publicly repeated it several times, but come on, sir, let's see if you're really willing to face crimes and whether you're willing to condemn a crime, and genocide is certainly the hardest of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35189	Time! Thank you. I've turned off the microphone. It can't take more than three minutes. I ask the MPs to contribute to Parliament's reputation and to the choice of words and content that we address each other, both Parliament and citizens of Serbia. I think a great contribution would be to that if Mr. Veroljub Arsic gave up on the replica. You're not giving up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35190	Mr. Sarovic, I wish you were right. However, by cleaning up the City Hall, it seems to me that you've been cleaned up on the Leader, it seems to me that you've been cleaned up in Zemun, it seems to me that you've been cleaned up in Kostolic. You know, with that cleanup, I wouldn't be too much to brag about if I were to have a hard time and just a little bit of misery beating off the invalid ballots in the election. Then, Mr. Sarovic, I would resign, and I would no longer deal with politics, let others do it. But you've decided to stay in politics and just keep on destroying us, just keep going, please. There won't be 21 of us after the next election, there'll be over 100 of us. That's your problem. All that you've said, I'm still telling you and I'm distracting you, you're telling the truth, and at least try, since you've been an event participant in many things, to at least determine the time distances. So I'm not two months, I'm 20 days. I have my reasons why, Mr. Sarovic, not those like you say, which you wish were correct, they're not true. The problems are in you, because one thing's arranged, another thing's done. That's the problem. I don't want to work with people like that. One more thing, Mr. Sarovic, when you mention those resignations and the sleeve and the signing, to remind you that then Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was still a member of the SRS and that I was doing it on someone's orders. Now you can discuss whatever you want, I respect your will to remain in that political party. Let me just tell you that this story of Europe in the SRS and the campaign led by Tomislav Nikolic has failed in most of the parliamentary mandates. Figure this out, we split up, and now what? Leave us, we don't touch you, you continue your course or, Mr. Sarovic, slowly, order in order, towards the donkey bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35191	Mr. Sarovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35192	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know if I'm going to be wrong in interpreting a member of the Rules of Procedure, I know I'm obliged to read it. I asked you today at the beginning of the debate to provide me with, as parliamentary practice requires, one Rules of Procedure. It's always been given to more recent MPs, I'm new. I believe that the injured member 104, who says that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and I believe that Mr Arsic, by carrying out such lies, did not respect him. Article 2 says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I really don't think that this way of speaking and these donkey benches Mr. Arsic mentions can't be called some kind of courtesy address. What's the point here? Mr. Arsic, whatever bench I'm in, I'll always be able to look you in the eye. As many terms as you will have after the next election, you today, Mr. Arsic, have none, and those you abuse have stolen. I will read you another sentence of yours now, as it is popular with you, a spiritual father, and he says – either we will resist now or we will stop fighting politically. And what would we fight if after the election we don't know who has the number of MPs, we will deal with politics and campaigns from day to day, we will go to elections, and Bogoljub Karic will wait and buy all MPs. That's what this is about, Mr. Arsic. You were not in the previous elections, and you were not using those terms, and no matter how many, to get 250 seats in the next election, you're a thief, you stole these mandates, and that's the shame you'll wear most of the time. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35193	There's no basis for replication. I will not allow your participation in the debate to disrupt the reputation of Parliament. This is already a personal insult and absolutely not a topic for parliament. (Veroljub Arsic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35194	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn the speaker when the MP was abusively and uglyly treating the MPs, it is even here in this law on the National Assembly contained. Mr. Sarovic, I don't feel like a thief. I might feel like it when you return those two million dinars you raised in 2005 because you allegedly traveled from Vranj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35195	Mr. Ivan Andric has a word. Here you go, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35196	Madam President, it's hard after this inspired debate to get back on the subject, but I think that's still necessary. Unfortunately, we can't share the enthusiasm with which the ruling majority representatives speak, or at least some of them, about this law because we don't recognize what they're talking about. We can agree with what the legislator has said, but unfortunately we cannot agree that these qualifications can apply to this law. You said that by this law, I may be wrong, but somewhere it was the essence, the Assembly would become, or parliament independent, strong and finally become credible. Unfortunately, I don't think that's possible, and I'll try the first part to talk about it. If we are talking about this control role of this Parliament, it is not possible as long as there are blank resignations. It's clear to everyone in this room. If there are blank resignations, which are in the peaks of your parties, that means that only the control function can perform the opposition here. You're not ready to leave it to us. On the other hand, the same ones you need to control have a mechanism to stop you in the most banal way. I'm not saying this by heart. We have witnessed several MPs of the ruling coalition who have somehow had a different opinion than most, who are no longer with us here. I'm not saying that a blank resignation was then used, but it's not necessary, it's enough that it exists, so they were more or less mostly on their own, except for that scandalous case when one MP at the last assembly meeting found out that he was no longer an MP. As long as such a tool exists, it doesn't matter how you write the law. It's not possible in real life to control someone I depend on. That is not possible, and when it is said that parliament should play a control role, it is not meant to. Whether he's going to become strong and credible, I think unfortunately that depends on some other things. Now I'm gonna try and talk about them. We can agree on some things, which is that parliament must be effective, that it must pass laws quickly, especially after that hole of 10 and more years that we have, in order to reach some standards in the EU. But we cannot change the whole parliament with only efficiency in mind. This parliament, we heard it formally last week, is the second in Europe by the number of laws passed last year. This means that the efficiency of this Parliament is no longer a topic. This parliament is now working much more efficiently than any other in the environment, but this efficiency has opened up some other problems, particularly problems in the content of the law. All opposition MPs have indicated this, but the European Commission also said in two latest reports. The basic problems today in the functioning of parliament, in addition to those resignations that I have said why they are important and why this freedom is important, the basic problem is the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, the lack of a work plan, the ignorance of each of us MPs who are the next law, so when you set a session 10 days ahead, we realize today that the deadline for some amendments is tomorrow or today at midnight, if I am not mistaken. It prevents us from working the way we think it's best for citizens in this country, not for us. I think the concept of change or that vision itself was when it began to create a new law on the Assembly that the problem was then one, but we were obliged to be aware that the problem would be another. You know, the basic business of this assembly is the business of European integration, whatever you call it, of changing our society to make it look like other civilized societies. In this process, the most important problem is, as you know, there's this joke that has three problems, it's implementation, implementation, implementation. We need to be able, if we want to live in modern time, to control the process of implementing these laws. I must say, and Cedomir Jovanovic, the head of our parliamentary group, spoke about it today, perhaps not clearly enough because there were other topics. We simply inherited the organisational structure of parliament from the one-party system. Then a multipartial system was introduced in 1990, but the structure did not change and it remained the same until today. You are all witnesses of this, when we travel anywhere today to developed EU countries, the way our parliament is organised has nothing to do with it, it is parallel to the way other parliaments in the world are organised. I'm talking about those we're trying to look up to. In this law, we do not recognize any new tool that will allow us to deal better with the content of the law, to solve most things on committees. It's been repeated several times. I don't understand how the board's role has been strengthened. I really don't see it from this. Maybe there is, I'd like to explain that. It is constantly said that these generally accepted phrases that this law will be better, the committees will be stronger. Unfortunately, no. This law only recognises the lack of political, I cannot say courage, it is a lack of political freedom, because we with the ruling majority are talking about it. Those problems are known to each and every one of you. But if these problems were solved, the government would have less space, and precisely because of these famous resignations, you can't get into that space. That's not possible. It's like there was some kind of wish, but it's stopped. In the basic structure, I'm not talking about the fact that committees are stronger, stronger, that there is a serious research centre that allows each of us to compare these laws to laws that exist in parallel law, so by hiring external associates, to enable each MP to be more content, there's no such thing here. This law exclusively reflects the current situation, some basic problems, is not addressed because there is no political force at this time for such a thing. Unfortunately, I think that despite this wish, which I think existed when the Constitution said that the Assembly would get its law, that the result of this law would be nothing, that in eight days, when this law came into force, except for two young soldiers, who would wait 40 hours for us to finish the first day of the regular session, that no other changes would be made. Each day will be the same as yesterday or two months ago, or three months ago. So all the problems remain, and apart from that fact that only now do we have the law, and until yesterday we didn't have it, no other fact will matter more to improve our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35197	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35198	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are fully agreed on what we think Parliament should become. Maybe we're just different from what we, on the one hand, don't see what you're proposing to do in relation to what we're proposing, so I just don't see it right now. In the amendment debate, we'll probably see that, so now we're talking in principle. I didn't hear any specific remarks. So, the only concrete remark I've heard is that we didn't foresee the possibility of hiring experts in the Committee's work to increase our professional capacity. You are absolutely right, we have an organisational structure of parliament that has been inherited from a time that is completely different, from the conditions that are completely different, with perspectives and goals that have been completely different from those that are now ours. We're fully aware of that. What we want to do is change the structures that need to help MPs do their jobs, create conditions for this parliament to work effectively. We fully agree with you that sometimes the speed we're working on is too high. We've never challenged that. We just know that she was necessary, because we just had to do some things if we wanted to cross some stages where we were behind on other countries for 10 years and more. So I can't argue with you about that either, because I'm totally okay with it. We have complete awareness that this is the case. The only difference is that we don't think there's a magic wand, there's a magic formula that, in one breath, by one law, no matter how we set it up, we can solve that problem. It is important for us to hear what is what you think is in this law a provision or a formulation that blocks this common goal, on the one hand, or what is missing at this stage of creating the assumption that the National Assembly is a Parliament that will respond to all the demands of time and the needs of citizens and the need to achieve the most important strategic objectives. So, when it comes to committees, we foresee the possibility of hiring experts on the side. It is written in a member of the law dealing with committee matters, noting that we do not have internal capacities that we can make available. A research center has been formed. It takes both time and probably resources. We are prepared and willing to seek, that is what we do, even from international organisations who want to help us lift the capacity of the Assembly, to help us and financially do so. We thought that the internal organisation of the services involved in supporting the work of the MPs should not be dealt with in detail by this law, that it is a matter for a regulation, for which there is a legally prescribed deadline, and that all the most important instruments and tools should be foreseen there, as you say, to achieve those objectives that we absolutely do not dispute about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35199	Mr. Ivan Andric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35200	There's another one of those. Yes, we know that speed is needed and we know that there should be rules and that it cannot be regulated in detail. We've given an example that may be banal, but it's a good picture. If the Assembly is passing a tire-looking law by November and how that tire has to look on the car since November, then it means there's absolutely room for all of us to deal with it, not some kind of service to write regulations and something we'll just see, because the way it's done narrows down the democratic capacity of parliament. We say speed is important and we don't have a problem with that because this country is very late, but at that rate it's lost to quality. How did this law help to improve this quality? Here, we tell you, you ask what concrete proposals are, the first proposal is – cancel resignations, allow your MPs to criticise ministers, allow them to affect the Serbian Parliament's agenda themselves. A college is now being set up. Why can't that college make the Assembly agenda for the next four months? It is an improvement in Parliament's work, very concrete. Here, we have submitted an amendment requiring that each time, at least 10 days before the start of the session, the College shall meet at the initiative of the President of Parliament and negotiate in advance, before the regular, before the extraordinary session, which is the plan. This will allow us, MPs, citizens' representatives, not ministers' representatives, to, if we know our schedule for the next three or four months, then we can find an expert opinion on each law. If today or last night we got the agenda for next week's session, gave just a concrete example, the deadline for the amendments expires at midnight, we heard the agenda yesterday, never before, today we are all day in the Assembly. So how do we affect the content of the law? We don't even have a theoretical chance to do that. When I tell you, I mean all MPs. I say again, in order not to blame the thesis, the essence is the freedom of expression of MPs. This isn't Congress, this isn't the representative body of parties. We represent some citizens and some of those same citizens' interests. As long as there is a possibility in the government, that possibility applies primarily to the government, that it can activate resignations of any of 126 or 131, I don't know how much currently, depending on Saturday, to activate resignations of any of you, there is no control there, it's not possible. He's going to call this minister, this vice president, he's going to threaten, he's going to condition, he's out of control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35201	Mr. Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35202	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, as announced these days by this session and the law, is not at all like that clerical atmosphere that was expected when an extremely important law was passed, such as the Law on the National Assembly. There is a higher impression that this law is being passed in one void, in one expectation that another topic imposed by the ruling coalition will be resolved for the previous two months, which is the resolution on Srebrenica. Since the motion for this resolution was not submitted, since there was no consensus within the ruling coalition, here we will discuss the law on the National Assembly by the beginning of the regular session. That is the problem and that is the atmosphere in which we are working all day long, the debates and all that is highlighted today and all that is commended to the law and all that is related to criticism, is talking about what this law is about and why this law, especially this session, does not fit what is expected when it comes to the law on the National Assembly. Today there was a lot of talk about history, there was talk of Serbian parliamentaryism, there was this dilemma about whether there was parliamentaryism in our history, whether it was developing, what was the situation in Serbian institutions. On the side of all these comparisons, one fact is certainly something that distinguishes today's Parliament's calling from some previous ones. Today's Parliament's assembly is that no one in their work, when we look at a year and a half, no big topic. As the former parliaments dealt with key state issues, the course of state policy, decided on war and peace, decided on foreign policy, decided on territorial integrity, on all key issues in the state, today's parliament on the agenda for a year and a half had no major state issue. Not to mention, some media are writing today, that within a year and a half, the Serbian parliament has not discussed the most important state issue concerning KIM. And why is that? And it's connected to the effects of this law, because it's what the government wants. Then the question is, what effect will this law be? We are talking here about new competences, new capacities, financial independence, and the ruling majority, nor this Parliament, have any power to open a big topic, a state topic, to ask this question to the government and, at the very end of the line, to agree on this topic and to have a large number of citizens, and citizens most monitor such sessions, see in the National Assembly and Unity and a clear direction of state policy. Then the question arises – what could possibly have been that this law was passed in a different atmosphere often mentioned here by consensus? Well, it could have been next - that the National Assembly, which by consensus would have passed a law on the National Assembly, together made a strategy to fight for the National Assembly to be representative and, as it were said here, a credible body, with clear measures both towards the Government, and according to other institutions, both to the media and to the public. It would be a strategy to strengthen the National Assembly. This is how we enter into the debate of a law that is extended to the Rules of Procedure, even many things that are expected to be defined here are either touched by authority or referred to some new laws that will regulate these issues. The absence of courage to define these issues here in the law, leaving these issues to other laws that will be initiated by the Government, not the National Assembly, is the problem of this law. Now, when we look at both the atmosphere and the position of parliament, and the absence of debate on key state issues and the fact that no key issue has been resolved here, because the laws that the government will propose are pending, the question is then the courage and strength of the ruling majority that what it calls epochal in this law, which is financial independence, succeeds in electing the Government and providing the National Assembly. That's not gonna happen. Every serious issue raised here has been removed from the agenda by the ruling majority in the National Assembly, because the invisible hand of the government has ordered it. We now expect that the same majority, who did not have the courage to raise big issues and big government issues in parliament, will now be able to vote for financial independence in the budget. I fear that it will be nothing and that this is simply a missed opportunity for the consensus, clear messages to all institutions to initiate the story of the return of authority and strength to the Serbian parliament, which has nothing to do with the electoral system alone, but has to do with the will of all the MPs here in the Assembly. If we are not as MPs, through a different law, which will more precisely define a series of solutions, from blank resignations, from jurisdiction, as is said here, to the president of the Assembly, to all other issues, and not to introduce decorations relating to the anthem, to honorary guards, to the guard, someone will almost suggest that cannons shoot, and that everything remains an empty shell, we will do nothing to make the National Assembly become that body that once Serbs were proud of and in which they expected the most important decisions to be made. The most important decisions in Serbia's state policy were made in the National Assembly, and now that is not the case, it is now being moved to the government. Then the question arises, when the Assembly, apart from some laws, is not discussing anything else, why is there no such credibility? This law has not given a single answer to these questions. It would be very important to try to reach a consensus, that it is not imposed, and especially not to leave this impression that it is in one interregnum, one empty space, when one topic that is important, failed to get support within the ruling majority, just so it goes. That way, the Rules of Procedure behind this will pass, too, without consensus. The National Assembly will become neither credible, nor strong, nor strong, because nothing has been done that all MPs, as we have known in a large number of cases, on matters important to this country, to reach a consensus, do not do so when it comes to the most important institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35203	Proposer's representative, Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35204	Dear People's MPs, perhaps a long time ago, the Serbian parliament led politics, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which you as a party and your president consider yourself the most responsible for its adoption, clearly states that the government is determining and leading politics and that the government is proposing laws and other acts to the National Assembly. I don't think Serbia's parliament can discuss major state issues as a direction to establish some kind of policy. We are discussing big state issues every time we discuss the laws that we regulate important areas in the social system. Parliament, regardless of what the debate means and brings debate, but it must have an act for the result. This cannot be simply a debate club, and surely the result of our debate cannot be policy-finding, because it is under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the government of the Republic of Serbia has jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35205	Mr. Jovan Palalic. There's not much ground for replica, but if you don't think you're well understood, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35206	Mrs. Kolundjia, I know very well who determines and leads politics in the Republic of Serbia according to the Constitution. I know this is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the National Assembly represents the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this policy cannot be hidden from the National Assembly in which the Government received support. Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not accountable to anyone for its policies that it determines and leads? If a politician is leading, it was probably important for the government to open up a debate in the National Assembly, of which it expects support. We do not say that the Assembly determines and leads politics, but it is important that the National Assembly, as a representative of citizens, discuss this policy and give support, legitimacy and strength to such a government. And in the previous period, Mrs. Kolundzija, the Assembly had never led a policy, but each government knew that important state issues were being consulted by the National Assembly and provided a consensus on the policy it represents. That's the essential thing. And can the National Assembly initiate questions? Of course she can and should initiate them towards the government, because she chose them. Now, if we say -- that's all the opposition wants, then that's the problem. Why hasn't any opposition proposal been put on the agenda about any of the questions we've proposed here? Let the government come, and let him say, "This is not the policy we represent." I suppose the MPs in the National Assembly have the opportunity to raise questions that are important to the public. That's the essential thing and that's the fundamental difference. If you are leading a policy that leads to forces being deployed in northern Kosovo as a result of the acceptance of Eulex, it has never been discussed here, but is somehow a government, I don't know in any way, determined, and this raises the whole policy of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and that we haven't asked a question in a year and a half, then it is a fundamental thing – what is hidden from the National Assembly that citizens are looking at? Citizens do not watch government meetings, but look at the National Assembly and watch debates in the National Assembly and expect them to discuss and discuss these issues in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35207	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35208	The constitution again defined clear competences and relations between the government and the National Assembly. At the same time, the National Assembly votes in favour of the programme and the election of members of the government. We, when we voted for the government, also voted for the government programme. What our mechanisms are that no one here is disputed is that questions are being asked to the government, that the government is coming on certain days, as we predicted, and that it answers questions. That the government comes in the days when we have questions on the topic and then we ask questions. It simply cannot be disputed that we have abolished the instruments, on the contrary, we have introduced instruments that allow parliament to ask before the government all questions that are of interest to citizens, to ask them for answers and to initiate, of course, various even legislative projects. Each of the MPs has the opportunity to launch an initiative to pass laws as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35209	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35210	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, such as among other colleagues from the SPS-JS parliamentary club in their presentation very clearly and precisely pointed out, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in principle supports the proposed legislative solution, because we believe it is necessary first to respect the constitutional obligation to pass a law on parliament, whose adoption, as among other things, will create normative assumptions for the harmonisation of rules on the work of the Republic's Parliament with the Constitution, 120 days from the date of adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, as well as the adoption of other acts provided for by law. On the other hand, as mentioned among other things, by adopting this law, parliament is being brought into an equal constitutional-system position in relation to the authorities and the executive and judicial authorities, on which specific laws have been passed. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with this legislative proposal, I would say, meets its constitutional obligation first. The work of the highest legislative body regulates the law, implements the principle of power-sharing, surrounds the democratic order in our country guaranteed by the Constitution, but provides for mutual control and creates conditions for more effective functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The very importance of the proposed law lies, among other things, in the fact that this is from the introduction of a multiparty system the first draft law on the National Assembly. The most important newspaper contained in this legislative proposal is certainly the financial independence of the highest legislative body. The National Assembly, as said among other things, will first receive its budget, which will be secured from the Republic of Serbia's budget and which is proposed by the general secretary of the National Assembly of Serbia, and can actually be defined as a guarantee of the independence of the republic's parliament. The competent assembly committees, as provided for in Article 67, shall determine the draft general budget. They're delivering it to the D.A. for an opinion. However, what is very important is the fact that unless consensus between the resolution ministry and the assembly committee is reached, the proposal of the Assembly Committee is accepted, which reaffirms the realisation of the declared objective in the context of independence, when it comes to finance. What is extremely important, the Serbian government will not be able to suspend the implementation of the assembly budget without the consent of the republic's parliament. All those controversial issues, which were mentioned more in public during the draft of this law, and concerning, above all, certain privileges of MPs, of course they are lagging behind, or not part of this legislative proposal, because the MPs are citizens of Serbia and share the fate of the citizens of Serbia, or the people. Some of the major newspapers introduced by this legislative proposal include the obligation of MPs to swear, intonate the national anthem at the beginning and end of regular sessions, as well as setting up a guard at the entrance of the House of National Assembly, which, in our opinion, we agree, will in a certain way increase the reputation of the Republic's Parliament. As regards the parliamentary mandate, the bill provided for the MP to be freely available in his term of office, in accordance with the Constitution and the law governing the choice of MPs. Receipts and other fees shall be determined by special law, as well as the fact that the MP is entitled to pension under the law. The proposal for a new law says the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly and its bodies. Of course, this does not mean that the opposition's legitimate and legal right to boycott plenary sessions has been abolished. We want to believe that the duties of Members of Parliament in permanent employment in the Assembly and when it comes to the arrival of MPs in the Assembly, registration, will be regulated by the new Rules of Procedure, which the Assembly, as I have already said, has the obligation to adopt and adopt 120 days from the date of adoption of the Law on the National Assembly. Because actually, now there is no sanctions for not coming to the session, except for the citizens' court in the elections. This legislative proposal affirms the role, rights and responsibility of MPs. Of course we support the intensities when it comes to the functioning of parliament to put the accent on boards. The legislative proposal provided for permanent working bodies, i.e. committees, as well as temporary committees and committees that can form subcommittees, and can also hire scientific workers to study certain issues. What I want to say at the very end, this proposal highlights the obligation to create conditions for ensuring the public work of the National Assembly. The public in the work has yet to exist and that is logical, given the great powers that the Assembly has. But as of today, the public of work becomes a legal obligation. It is perfectly logical that the work of the Republic's parliament can be controlled by citizens who have elected this parliament. The proposed law is the opinion of the SPS-JS, a very clear and precise position, organisation, way of working and decision-making of the Assembly, position and rights, the duty of MPs, emblems, symbols, characteristics of the Republic's parliament, finance, relationship with other state bodies, management and availability of property, international co-operation and the position of the assembly service. At the very end, once again, and that ends, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in principle supports this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35211	I give my word to Mrs. Snezani Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35212	Dear ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, democracy at the end of the 20th and early 21st centuries has no doubt experienced triumph both as ideal and as a set of political institutions and practices. A final statement by the UN World Summit in 2005 said democracy is universal and that it does not belong to any country or region isolated. We will also agree that a strong parliament is a vital sign of strong democracy. Despite all this, however, a paradox is happening. The paradox speaks of parliaments at the time of strengthening democracy being weak and their role around the world in most societies is losing importance. What is happening and how it is possible that an institution, which should be a temple of democracy, is practically losing support from those it represents, from the citizens of the countries in which it works. It is a paradox that should certainly be imagined and I think that in Serbia we are, unfortunately, one of the bad examples of how much Parliament can lose its reputation and how low the level of trust in parliament and its representatives. We are all witnesses to how long I've been in parliament for the past five or six years, unfortunately, five or six deaths have occurred. Parliamentarians were dying at their jobs, and here we have today had an example, which is not so rare, that in front of the eyes of the citizens, parliamentarians faint at their jobs. It is not known to me that in any other institution in Serbia such a thing is happening so often and in such a way, which certainly speaks of the fact that this work we do is not as easy, simple and easy as the citizens of Serbia experience it. However, we have been exposed to the fact that almost the entire public is being brought down on parliament and on us as individuals and that we have been given the opportunity to be named names that a well-bred child or man in Serbia will not easily repeat. Also, almost our friends and families are starting to wonder if we are really so uneducated, so primitive, so unfair, so lazy, as the whole public describes us. Our children bend their heads in schools in front of their teachers' claims that we are a set of corrupt recipients. If it's any consolation, it's not just happening to Serbia. Like I said, trust in parliament all over the world in most states is dropping. Again, whether it is for comfort, but one survey and a survey shows that, say, in EU countries, among the institutions whose trust has been questioned, the highest trust is given by the police, then by the military, then by the courts, then by parliament and at the end of the party. In East Asia - military, courts, police, parliament, parties. In countries that have recently become EU members - military, police, courts, parliament, parties. So Parliament and parties are regularly at the bottom and again, it is not only in Serbia that the mechanisms of force enjoy much greater confidence than the mechanisms and institutions of democracy. The Australian House of Representatives issued a statement a few years ago where he said this – advertising-propagandic activity, journalists and used car sellers in Australia can relax, no longer belong to the most unpopular professions, were overtaken by MPs, who were among the 23 ranked professions in Australia the most unpopular profession. Why is that and why it comes to this paradox of democracy, to leave it to political theorists. One of them, Norberto Bobio, an Italian theorist, says it's probably about failed expectations and failed promises. Philosophers can discuss whether the ideals of democracy or freedom or justice are possible. Our poet Branko Miljkovic poetically wondered if freedom would sing as the slaves sang about it. All of us who have fought during some period of our lives, and I believe that there are many of those among us, no matter what our ideals may be different, we are sure that ideals can never respond to us in the same way. But let's not deal with political and philosophical issues. I deeply believe that every time there is a problem a man should go from himself and ask himself – what can I do? I also believe that right now, the question is, what can we do? I am convinced that this law is making an attempt to answer that question. Really, what can we do? We can pass the law, we can apply it, we can work daily to make our parliament as democratic as possible. In order for parliament to meet these conditions, it must enable adequate representation of citizens, it must be transparent, it must be accessible, it must be efficient and be responsible, it must account for the citizens it represents. What were the other parliaments doing in an attempt to achieve these criteria, and what can we do? I'll give you a few examples. Public hearings are certainly a good institute to ensure that citizens take part and co-operate with parliamentarians. In Belarus, Slovenia or Tunisia, there are constitutional advices from NGOs or associations of citizens who are associated with certain assembly committees and are constantly in the consultation process. In Hungary, at parliament, there is an office for citizens, where citizens can give their suggestions, objections and participate in the process of passing laws. In Iceland, the Legislative Committee, for example, asks for an opinion in writing from interested citizens or groups of citizens when discussing a law. Also, there are good examples of mobile parliaments, an office of parliaments in the interior or regional centres that some European parliaments have in their countries. I also want to say some interesting examples of how parliaments work with young people or how they try to develop awareness of the importance of parliamentary democracy in young people. For example, the Icelandic Parliament has a website for students aged 13 to 15, where they can communicate with cartoon characters, learn and answer questions about parliament and receive immediate feedback and an assessment of their answers. In Finland, there is a game of "legislators", in which children virtually pass laws and play different roles within parliament. In Turkey, for example, parliament, together with the ministry of education, participates in a project to strengthen student parliaments, where children gain experience of choosing and choosing it and representing someone or their views. And, for example, it is not a rare practice for the president of parliament to attend these elections in schools to give importance to student parliaments. These are all good examples I believe we can follow. We also have some of our own mechanisms that we've already developed. Speaking of the law itself, I've already said, I think this is one way to strengthen parliament further. Of course, the law itself will not contribute to strengthening parliament, but some of its mechanisms, depending on how we use them, can certainly be a good starting point. When it comes to the guards and the criticisms involved, I must say that I personally will not enjoy that act and I believe that no individual, no man in the world, can believe that the guard is lined up because of it. It may be that only some with paranoid schizophrenia problems can believe that they are so large that they are precisely the reason why the guard can be lined up. However, if it is lined up in front of the institution, because of the institution and to make the institution important, and thus to the citizens of Serbia, it is an acceptable solution for me. I think the most significant part that this law adopts is the independent budget of the Assembly, because it is indeed the conditions for independence and it is indeed a condition for strengthening parliament. We know from personal life, both the economy and the economy that it's simply impossible to be independent without economic independence, that it's impossible to develop your own mechanisms, that it's impossible to monitor your own programs unless you have an independent budget. I believe it's one of the most significant solutions this law makes. What I particularly want to praise in it, and I must say that I see it as part of a personal satisfaction for the work that I have, I believe, committed to during the previous years in parliament, which is the introduction of exactly the Institute of Public Listening and the introduction of assembly offices in the interior of our country. Article 27 of this Law provides for the possibility of organising public hearings for committees, and Article 15 speaks of the fact that the Assembly’s representative function is also being realized by MPs making contacts and talking to citizens either in the Assembly, i.e. the possibility of doing so in internal offices. I am proud to point out that I am one of the first MPs to organise public listening, as well as the first MP to open a parliamentary office in Serbia's interior. When we started with the form of public listening in 2005, my colleague Ivana Kovacevic, my colleague Donka Banović and I, on behalf of the Committee on Poverty, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and the Committee on Education, were many ridicules in the Assembly regarding this term itself, and of course on how to work. I must say, they came almost from all the parliamentary groups. Many have asked us if there will be a public view, many have asked us if then, by doing so, we may be a public house, many have asked various non-supervised questions, making a mockery of this institution of democracy that exists in all developed democratic parliaments. But when you do something you believe in, of course you don't look back on it. Why are public hearings a good citizen participation mechanism? Because parliamentary procedures are approaching citizens, because citizens participate in parliamentary debates on committees, because public hearings and MPs make public hearings more responsible to citizens and parliament more legitimate, because public hearings contribute to the openness and transparency of the democratic process, to raising democratic political culture, to improving co-operation and trust between citizens and their representatives and to enabling permanent dialogue between citizens and parliament. In that sense, public hearings have already become a practice in our parliament. There's been a lot of them. In this last session, I think, more and more, and I think it's very good that this time and by law on the National Assembly we confirm that public hearings are something that becomes part of parliamentary practice and something that becomes a permanent mechanism of co-operation with citizens and participation of citizens in democratic procedures. When we talk about internal offices, I already have a few months of experience working with citizens in this office, and I can tell you that it's really an extraordinary experience, not because it's the first time I've had contact with citizens, I know that all of you in the field have contacts with citizens, but this is simply an opportunity for citizens to get together, that the office is open every day to them, that you can be available to citizens every day and that a great number of citizens' problems can be solved. When you can't get rid of it, then the citizens themselves make sure that you're not as powerful as they thought you might be, that often it happens to you that when you try to invite a public company director in front of their eyes that he's not really ready to call you, that he might not be ready to come out and just break that gap between citizens and parliament, the gap between citizens and MPs and the belief that MPs simply work for themselves. So, in front of the eyes of the citizens, there is an opportunity to make sure that a large number of us work precisely in the public interest and that a large number of us are actually committed to doing our representative work. The next thought that in recent times democracy is no longer a question of free elections, but rather a question of citizens' participation in democratic procedures between elections, I believe that this law provides a good basis for such a thing and opens up wider opportunities for greater co-operation between citizens and MPs, and thus strengthens the role of parliament and parliamentary democracy in our society. In that belief, MP group G 17 plus will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35213	The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35214	When it comes to this law, it seems that our country and its citizens can no longer be surprised when it comes to this power. When power is exercised for the sake of it itself, therefore, for the sake of survival in power, for the sake of mere survival in power which, by the way, brings great privileges to the individuals who exercise that power, then it must be said that it is carried out in one simple, naked, macarovelist principle that this set goal – the survival of power, justifies every means to which it is applied. In translation – the possibility of trade in parliamentary mandates will become a universal rule because it simply allows this bill. And that's why this is becoming a country where a single illusion of some generalized absurdity is created. In that absurd, every average normal man really loses ground under his feet. It's just that he doesn't even know what's right anymore, or what's wrong, he starts to doubt even his own mind. Before some new quasi-values, which even in the draft of this law try to impose, here are served some things that are so foreign to a common man. However, these quasi-values are presented in a perfiduous way as the liquids of a modern European civilization, which, in fact, the state of Serbia should accept. Well, then in this country it's perfectly normal that black becomes white, that Big Brother can be better and stronger than family, it becomes normal that domestic tycoons can buy mandates, they can participate in the formation and work of the government, and then it becomes normal that even publicly made promises to the people simply mean nothing. So this is all already seen. But here's a chance for us to see something new in this law. First, if we put into the same plane the urgency of passing this law and the reasons for this urgency on the one hand and what is offered as the text of the bill here, so, what is being translated into this paper, we will come to a simple conclusion that it is saying that "better three hours is too soon than one minute late" in terms of this law really doesn't make any sense. In fact, some of the provisions of this law are simply prescribed from the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. They are unclear, unarranged, with the recommendation that it will be regulated by some sublaws. Some of the provisions of this law are very general, so it seems like someone wanted or wanted to write something called the Constitution of the National Assembly, not the law. Secondly, in this country and under this power, we really saw a lot of things that we couldn't even dream of, of course, negative. However, something new that we haven't had a chance to see so far is, in fact, a legitimate and legal institutional means, which is a new kind of stock market business – trafficking of people's MPs. That's what we haven't seen yet and what this project predicts. What it is for you, in fact, is the gazing and disrespect of the basic constitutional principles set out in Article 102. Serbia's Constitution? Obviously nothing compared to, say, the brutal end of the state, to breaking the family, to destroying everything that is Serbian and national. What does the electoral will of the citizens represent for you? If you list this bill more often, you will see through some of its provisions or bar between the lines of a outline, some of our famous faces of newly-roasted rich people and future owners of parliamentary mandates. That's what you're going to come up with, really unthinking political life in Serbia. The tycoons will no longer have to finance some expensive and massive political parties. They will simply buy the new and sad goods – the MPs, who want to put their parliamentary mandate on the market. Isn't that and such a stock market also the flow of a modern European or Euro-Atlantic civilization? Indeed, anyone can come to this Serbia and speak against it and against the interest of the Serbian state whatever it wants. It can act against its vital interests, and you can even allow yourself to receive them into this National Assembly, to represent them as friends of Serbia. We ask that only those representatives who recognise Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity and who have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija can address this assembly. But you seem to have absolute support for the citizens of Serbia in everything you do, in everything you translate into texts, among other things, and in the proposal for this law. However, you should know one thing, when an evil government is ruled, then even the greatest support is lost. And finally, believe me, they don't deserve Serbian citizens to never, no matter what political option it is, be guided by those among whom there are really too many who, according to a nice and old saying, were created on the sixth day when God was very tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35215	Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35216	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Movement of Renewal is the party that was first in the early 1990s to fight for democratic values. If by chance we hadn't been killed and torn apart by the secret Serbian police then, Serbia would probably be a parliamentary monarchy, and wars, misery and disaster in the 1990s would have passed us by. Serbia would now be a long-standing EU member and nothing like this would look like it. In these political circumstances, however, such a bill on the National Assembly needs to be passed, as the assembly may also play the most important role in Serbia's European integration process. Article 11 of the Law on the National Assembly discusses the public work of the Serbian parliament. I will remind the public that the work of the Serbian parliament is a democratic fluid on 9 March and the Serbian Renewal Movement. Article 13 of the Law on the National Assembly discusses the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. The "God of Justice" anthem in Serbia's recent history was first sung by the Serbian Renewal Movement. From our protests, and after the intonation of "God of Justice", our members and sympathisers were beaten in the streets of Serbia. Now those who beat us, and that's good, sing the national anthem. One of the biggest demonstrations, with the brutal response of the then government, took place on June 1st 1993. In the hall of this assembly Branislav Vakic broke the jaw of the SPO MP. At that time, Serb Renewal Movement leader Vuk Draskovic and his wife, Danica, were arrested and monstrously beaten. This is just a glimpse of the history of SPO's loss in the fight for better Serbia under Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Although the people entered the Assembly on October 5th, marking the end of the rule of the Milosevic couple, the SPO remained the target, as the pyramid of the death of Slobodan Milosevic survived, and our commitment to the truth again cost us. Therefore, Article 37 of the Law on the National Assembly must be the subject of my presentation. When the Serbian Renewal Movement in 2005 asked for secret files to be opened, then certain state structures decide to take ten MPs away from us. With regard to Article 37, I will say that the principled position of the SPO is that the mandate of MPs must belong to a political party whose list has been elected, so that we do not come to a situation, such as some of the SPI MPs bought by Karic, that tycoons buy MPs and that the interest groups, who have not even participated in the elections, have their representatives in parliament. All that I've been talking about is just a drop in the sea of all the peripetia that the SPO has been going through, but it is also a guarantee that we will fight for everything that is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, honestly and unconditionally, and a strong parliament, I repeat, is needed by Serbia to become part of the EU. It should therefore be clear to all that the Serbian Parliament's work depends on the future of Serbia. It must also be known that the role of MPs is to create legal frameworks, i.e. conditions for Serbian citizens to live better, not to change political parties to satisfy personal interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35217	Three minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, followed by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a final opportunity to discuss a long-published law on the National Assembly which, in my opinion, by the letter of the law, by the letter of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law should have been passed, before, if I am not mistaken, a little over 14 months ago. The prehistory of passing this law is long and I would say, complex, because it seems to me that the ruling coalition did not have a clear vision, had no clear view of what should actually stand in this law, what it should embrace. This confirms in the extreme case and needlessly, I would say, the existence of a law-making commission, which has not met once in a year. It was just one of the reasons why we pulled our representative from that task force, because we didn't want to be responsible for something in which he wasn't going to participate. It is evident that we were right on that occasion, because the ruling coalition eventually received the final text of a law that should formally only go through the congregation procedure. If the ruling coalition knew at that moment what it knows now, it would probably have been passed much earlier. It brings nothing revolutionary, there is nothing in it that would be a stumbling block for the ruling coalition, and that is why I do not see any reason why it has been so long with its adoption. As far as the law was being passed, it is best to show the writings that we had had the opportunity to read in the newspaper, from the MP having to have a salary of five averages, to those privileged conditions for a parliamentary pension. This law constitutes a set of prescribed members of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure, but without any discussion. That is why it represents one naked text that, apart from seeking a single assembly budget, does not refer to anything else. He brings us nothing new than what we already had. I think it would be in some way refreshing in the work of this National Assembly that, by any chance, it is written that the proposals submitted by the opposition must be discussed, even within those short deadlines. I think that such practice exists in other parliaments across Europe and thus is given to the opposition itself. This is how we are able for our voices to never be heard, but only when we attack laws that we absolutely disagree with. I think it's a good idea that there's even an idea to pass laws on the National Assembly, we welcome it, because we think that the matter that needs to regulate the work of the National Assembly itself, which should deal with matters of the rights and obligations of the MPs, should be regulated in one place. Now we have a situation that the matter that deals with this area has been regulated in several laws. We expected that through this legal text all matter to be covered in one place. That's not the case, unfortunately. We haven't had a chance to see it in this bill. As a parliamentary group on June 3, 2009, we submitted one text of the law, a bill on the National Assembly in the assembly procedure, which unfortunately was never on the agenda. I think he could have used it as a good basis for a ruling coalition to make up the final text of the National Assembly Law. If he had found himself in the congregation procedure at that time, and if we had discussed it in some way then, it would have been a very good step, for he would have been one of the first laws to comply with the Constitution itself. Meanwhile, the ruling coalition had more important jobs and therefore initiated and passed many laws on other state authorities of the executive and judicial authorities. This law, which was supposed to be first passed, was probably and apparently not on the priority list. This, unfortunately, all fits into one general picture of the collapse of the most important state institutions. No wonder in Serbia one man wonders about everything. No wonder this National Assembly has turned into a voting machine in which there is absolutely no serious debate on the legal texts that have been filed. No wonder in the National Assembly the ugliest way is written in all the printed media, and it is no wonder that it is written about the MPs themselves in the ugliest way. They simply race who will be more offended at the expense of the messengers of the people. As long as this is the case, we will not have the opportunity to live in a strong rule of law, with strong institutions, which, in the end, should, as such, form the basis of economic prosperity, something that this country needs more than necessary. As far as we are, in the extreme case as representatives of the legislative authority in the shadow of the executive government, the best way to show that we did not have the courage, I am now saying this in the crowd on purpose because I am experiencing the representatives of the working group as our colleagues and my colleagues, they did not have the courage to introduce in the text of this bill a provision that is very clear to read that direct television transmissions are obligations. Instead, the representatives of the task force wrapped up in various expressions and eventually found a formulation that says the public of work is provided by creating conditions for television transmissions. That doesn't necessarily mean that television broadcasts will exist. So they can exist, and they don't have to. There's no such thing as a commitment. Direct television transmission, said by a fellow Yugoslav, is the result of multilaterals and as such represents an important democratic postulate that this government, does not want to offend anyone, but in the name of democracy, wants to shut down. Because of our indecisiveness and lack of courage to provide the National Assembly with the necessary dignity, we are now in a position to be dictated by the Public Service and set up a schedule for the broadcast of assembly sessions and to ultimately decide whether these broadcasts will be at all. Now I'm talking to you in front of you at 7:30, and this is going to be anybody who knows when to pass it on, probably won't be heard, because it's going to be transferred in time for all the normal world to sleep. Because of all this, it would have been much better if the representatives and the authorities and the opposition had worked together to draft this law, not if the opposition had been excluded from the work of this law. Unfortunately, it is my opinion, and it is such an impression that it has become a practice in the work of this ruling coalition. Such behaviour is certain that we will not improve the work of this institution, nor will we provide it with the necessary dignity and independence without which there is no single parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35219	Seven minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Nenad Constantinovic is not in the hall, the People's MP Verica Radet has the word, followed by MP Meho Omerovic. The order of Members has been changed. So MP Boris Aleksic has a word, followed by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35220	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have come before us a very important bill, a bill on the National Assembly, and just as the proposing representatives said, it is high time for parliament to gain financial independence. The only problem is that this is a proposal written in the 21st century, and other states have provided financial independence for their parliament, for example, from the 13th century. In England, this controversy became current in 1215, when aristocracy was given the right to participate in the then, we can call it the state budget, so through the Magnum Concillium, they also began to realise certain financial independence, and we came to the suggestion that, in the 21st century, we will finally have the opportunity to be financially independent of the executive power. What exactly is this about? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot function unless it is financially independent. The prerequisite for performing certain functions is financial independence. So, indirectly, you've confirmed that the legislative body was actually under control, under the management of the executive branch of power. Indeed, some times it seems that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its MPs have fewer rights than members of a municipal board of the Democratic Party. What else is this law about? They're very interesting about his provisions. I'll start with chapter one, where the famous basics are mentioned. We believe that a mistake has been made here because, immediately in Article 1, the provisions that are general in nature are listed in fact. This is seen if anyone reads this article 1 that it is general, not basic provisions, but it is a matter of Serbian language in which, we have concluded here, the representatives of the promoters are not paying attention. You didn't pay attention either in article 1 when you used the word "emblems", signs, markings, markings, symbols. You know, the word "emblem" is the word of Greek origin, which means the same thing as the symbol. So you have pleonasm here. You had to pay attention to the rules of the Serbian language, the spelling of the Serbian language, and you would come to the conclusion, with simple insight into the most basic papers and lessons that are taught even in primary and secondary schools, that this is not how a member of the law can be written, especially a member of such an important law governing the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So you have to change this. It's an opportunity, of course, to make it an amendment, not to use pleonasms. A famous member of 7th and polemic with a proposing representative, Mr. Bosko Ristic, who has confused the control and supervisory function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The control function is a more complete function. So whoever controls goes to the smallest detail and under his control really holds everything. The supervisory function is something else, the supervisory function is also used in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, our proposal and the amendments will be to use the term from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia instead of the control function, which is the supervisory function. Here you also did not use words in the spirit of Serbian. Article 11, you made it simple to disable direct television transmissions. It is also one pressure on MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the strength of public words is the only thing MPs have. We can't control the government's work unless our words can be heard, and you're turning this to your advantage, in favour of the executive authority, delayed transfers in the late hours, as my colleagues and colleagues have said, when no one really follows those sessions. They just can't keep track at five in the morning, some are getting ready for work, some are back, and most are sleeping. Now we come up with a nice pack of draft laws on the National Assembly. You're denying us the opportunity to be independent. You will shorten your right to direct television broadcasts, but that is why you will allow us to be welcomed by the Serbian Army Guard. It's a really amazing thing, not foreseen by the Constitution. Now the representatives of the promoters will be harassing these tortured soldiers to come and wait for the MPs at the beginning of the regular session, to be lined up, to wait in the winter's breast, to wait at 40 degrees, depending on the season, all MPs to enter the National Assembly. It will be this symbolism, this beautiful package that you will provide to the National Assembly. This really doesn't make sense. The honorary unit is known to be placed and there is no need for the honorary guard unit to be present at the beginning of the National Assembly. Leave these people alone, otherwise their wages are poor. Otherwise, they're doomed to watch other officials. They really don't have to be bullied in these places yet. What I have told you now is very symbolic, because I see that the representatives of the executive government, primarily the President of the Republic, have introduced a new way of saluting in the Republic of Serbia. It is likely that the Honorary Guard Unit will behave as well when the MPs appear. By the reputation of the United States, it is now saluting without a hat, without a beret, and we saw it at the receptions this month when President Boris Tadic saluted both to soldiers and civilians. Even civilians, who are advisers to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, the question is whether they served the army, also saluted Mr Tadic, which is indeed a tragic situation, that some civilians are saluting to you, and the president of the state is saluting to him. Really, you're playing country, it doesn't make any sense. It's that symbolism. It may look nice on television, but the point is, this law is very problematic. We have already talked about article 37 and DS representative Mr. Bosko Ristic confirmed that the DS is in fact in favour of a free mandate. It's the mandate that can go hand in hand, no matter what the proportional system is with us, which is not so prescribed by the constitution, regardless of which is Article 102. The constitution is specified that the MP can entrust his mandate to the party whose list he has been elected from. Nevertheless, you have, in fact, decided by this law to introduce a free mandate, in spite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're trying to create a two-party system. That's another important feature of this bill. It was no accident that Mr. Bosko Ristic took to protect the advancers, which I had previously criticised in my midday presentation, because they were just elected on the list of SRS, and the people gave them confidence in a certain ideology they represented, and after that, when they received a huge amount of money from various tycoons and mobsters, they began to represent the pro-Western international, so that they turned to Washington, to turn to Brussels, and to do what the advances of Prince Milan, who were known as the pro-Western, as the pro-austular party. It's true when someone says "nomen six". They didn't pick that name by accident. They really are. Also mentioned by the party's representatives, a certain denuntii, mentioned by a man who told David Tolbert, a tribunal official in The Hague, the first in the tribunal's secretariat in The Hague, and then Deputy Prosecutor Carla del Ponte, provided information aimed at keeping Professor Vojislav Seselj in The Hague as long as possible. That man is Tomislav Nikolic. He repeatedly met with David Tolbert and representatives of the tribunal in The Hague and transmitted certain information to them. Even then, co-operation between him and the UN Prosecutor's Office in The Hague was evident, and later culminated in contact with other people. I thank you for now, and I'll give my word to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35221	Ten minutes and five seconds have been used by the MP's group. National MP Meho Omerovic is not in the Omerovic room. National MP Vjerica Radeta has a word, followed by MP Bajram Šehovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will comment on this law by commenting on several members of the bill. Of course, the inevitable members are 37, 38, 39, for two reasons. The first reason is that these members are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it is truly amazing for us that someone who has worked on this proposal has ignored what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today, you from the ruling coalition are talking about a free term, you have foreseen this for these members 37th and 38th, and I would say that may not sound bad, but in addition to the fact that it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we would have to take care of the time in which we live, we would have to make sure that we live in a state where the Minister of Justice at the Public Service said a few days ago that Sharici is so powerful that they can actually affect governments throughout the region. Whether she meant the Government of the Republic of Serbia, too, I don't know, but in any case if we hear such a finding from the Minister of Justice's mouth, then we have to ask ourselves what the free term of the MP means. Does this mean a continuation of trade, as it is present in Serbia's recent parliamentary history, as it is especially present in this assembly's conference when, I repeat, other colleagues have said, we have a situation in the Assembly that does not exist anywhere on the globe, that there are people who represent themselves to the MPs, who did not participate as a party in the elections, who did not exist at the time of the election. Of course, it's a public secret that this party is funded by certain tycoons, mobsters, etc. All this has been approved by Boris Tadic's regime. The same party is already becoming a threat to Tadic's regime and you'll probably have some solutions, I hope you'll at least go public with the data on where the party's funding is, where they spent as much money in all local campaigns. We need to be aware of the fact that we are living in a time of unfortunately one great moral downturn, that we are living in a time of great economic crisis and social misery, and that all these moments will affect that if you adopt this law, we will literally make Parliament a flea market. All you had to do was write in one article when there was going to be a seasonal downturn, whether before spring or before the autumn session. You really shouldn't have done something like this because when we took part in the constitution we wanted to stop the corruption and this constitution, the way it is today, really prevents or guarantees the prevention of corruption in parliament, and you're talking today and adopting a law that, I don't know how you did it, will be above the Constitution. I will also remind you that in this way, in addition to legalising this parliamentary group that did not participate in the elections, you will also legalise the state of the MPs you bought by legalizing some object in Zemun and who knows what else you gave him, because at some point you needed to vote on the public information law. Representatives of the ruling majority, Mrs. Kolundzhija, as a representative of the proposings, has today fought to explain to us that the free term is indeed something that is in line with the Constitution and something that needs this parliament and the state of Serbia, while at the Pirot Municipal Committee, you exclude DS members because they did not respect the will of the DS to leave the party in Pirot. You're absolutely right about that. You're absolutely right because your members in Pirot were selected from your list, but don't do one thing when it comes to you, and the other is to talk to the public and the other about other parties. I must also mention the members of 62rd and 63rd that we had in practice in the previous period, what you are now trying to legislate, is that the president of one committee, specifically speaking about Dragoljub Micunovic, without consulting the parliamentary groups, sends some delegations from parliamentary groups, himself determines the MPs who will travel the white world. We have publicly opposed it several times here and had, too, a public promise from Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic that she will personally make sure that never happens again. Instead of never happening again, you have in these two members of the bill and legalized this possibility. In Article 73, you provided that the Agency for Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities is to perform for the purposes of the National Assembly of Transport Operations of Maintenance, Service and lock-up of vehicles and catering services. This is very briefly noted, because we in the SRS think that all of these services had to belong to the Assembly, too, and that's what all the secretaries, since I've been in parliament, promised both to drivers and maids, and to cafe cooks and waiters that, when the law is passed, they would also be in the Assembly as services of the Assembly, among other things because in the Assembly there are slightly higher salaries of employees than in this Department of Joint Affairs. So you didn't keep your promise. In the end, I'd be a bad lawyer if I didn't notice that a member of your 80s is inadmissible. You say this law will take effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". If the law comes into force, it must be applied. I ask you, how will you apply a member of 67 who speaks about the budget of the National Assembly? How will you apply members 75 to 78, leaving a six-month deadline, 120 days, etc. For making sublegal acts? Unserious, irresponsible, poor proposal, and that is, of course, why Serbian radicals will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35223	Nine minutes used by the MPs' group. The word is from MP Bajram Šehovic. He's not in the O.R. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35224	The public should know that this bill or even this idea has long been present, but it was not the motives that were contained in this text of the bill. Completely other motives were a few years ago when consideration was given to a possible future law on the National Assembly. In order not to spread the subject now, the rest has been recorded that all variants were practically mined by DS and in their own recognizable way, now I don't want to open that topic, they probably had some interest. In order not to repeat many of the views expressed by the MPs of the SRS, I would draw attention to the fact that this bill does not show what it wants to achieve. Does it want to achieve some stable parliamentaryism, does it want to achieve respect for democratic principles in the process, where 250 people represent citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where 250 MPs, parceled into parliamentary groups, with their political parties, express the electoral will of citizens as political alternatives, does this want to be preserved or something else entirely? I believe it's all about someone else's interest. I do not now take into account the resolutions proposed, there have been talks about them, so they are not included, I do not take into account the need for parliament to work, given that in this country anyone who has the least problem can blame parliament for its guilt over everything and everything. I'd just draw attention to that, it might seem a little bit like a joke, but when Bosko Ristic defends some bill, know that it's bad. That's how it was with the Constitutional Charter, that's how it was with a set of judicial regulations. You remember how much he defended it, then that choice, and we always know that this institution can't live, that terrible problems arise. Of course, I have nothing against Bosko Ristic, or anyone here individually or personally, but I want to compromise with some political attitudes that do not have an actual cover here. Not to be taken for granted, but an excessively hollow story, desires, hopes, expectations, etc., and a harsh violation of the Constitution is disguised. Now I'm going to remind you that in both legal and political theory, there is a dilemma on how to provide and preserve the authentic will of the voters in the House of Representatives. And many developed democracies were faced with the problem. Of course, the free term is a matter of direct elections, but Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, apart from talking about this imperative mandate, which no one disputes except the legislator of this law, is the only member who speaks of proportional elections for the National Assembly. What is startling is the fact that this bill hardly mentions two words "political party", and you certainly have 20 members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia where political parties and entities are political and constitutional systems of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps the reason for such a hasty and nervous decision to put this into the agenda should be sought in the fact that stable authority should be provided. However, the theory long ago said that a stable government does not have to be a good government. Good authority is characterized by results, works and in general the state of society and how citizens experience their life "under that authority". What the theory has long solved -- that little can be believed that under conditions of political instability, power can be good. We have political instability. Whether that authority is stable, and it is considered stable if there is a majority, it is again not a guarantee of good authority. That is why parliament is needed to hear all political, ideological and other alternatives, not to overturn. Very often here, when there is no argument to defend a bill, it is said – it is another attempt. Laws aren't a means of trying something. The laws have a completely different function. Or what comes very often from this side – you know, radicals, you may be right, but what's worth, we have most. A year ago, we heard the famous thought that democracy is what most people decide. We witnessed a kind of cartoon idea of democracy and the words of democracy. It's something that has to be branded, even in this principle debate. When it is in regularity, there will be many concrete objections to the concrete members of this bill. However, the law cannot be written as to what jargons are used from the media or from another location and by the system – we have gathered several of us, we are most of us, since it is clear that the opposition has boycotted the making of such a bill, it is now our expression of consent – we have the majority, it is democracy. It is clear how many areas must be regulated by law or some other act, with the full consent of all participants on the political scene. This was the case with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs in the second half of 1992, so it was with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was brought in 2000. This was the case with many other acts, where all relevant political parties moved, achieved a high degree of agreement, in accordance with the Constitution, because all of us are bound by the Constitution. There's some kind of speed going on here, some kind of force. We got 126, we're gonna push it out. You see some provisions of your bill, if they come to life, how would you apply it to your MPs? I don't object, that you understand me wrong, but look, all the parliamentary groups are not present, and you want one provision to install only because of the opposition, that the opposition must sit, and you cannot provide your political equalists within the same political party, a coalition that participated in the elections. I'm telling you, I don't blame you. I don't mind if there are 20, 50 or 250 MPs in this room, it doesn't matter, this is an institution that needs to work, this is almost the only institution in the country that always has a continuous continuity and that's how it should be. I must draw your attention to the fact that even those most advocated, ancient theorists, for this representative system as a form of democracy, have said that through history, the question of the character and fate of the mandate of the people's representatives has always been treated a little less as a legal issue, and more as a matter of constitutional morality or ethics by representative authorities. In that sense, this purchase, trade, defects, etc. The dominant question is morality, but the government is obliged to provide a system of values to preserve that social morality, that tomorrow when someone goes to the polls to vote for their representatives they know who they are, what they are. Political parties are transmissions. You have given importance to political parties in a large number of provisions of the RS Constitution. In communist times, the Alliance of Communists was a constitutional category. Since 1990, a multi-party political system has been promoted. Only two provisions applied to political parties. The 2006 constitution is an even bigger step in this regard. Why? No one today can deny the role and importance of political parties, especially parliamentary political parties, because they are indeed transmissions. For what? That members of the political party, as representatives of the National Assembly, represent both the voter's will and what the political party decided to do before the elections with its platform, with its ideology, because in these elections people voted for ideology, for the political party's programme. They didn't vote for individuals. If the political party could grant a mandate from its list, that's what we asked it to change in the Constitution. Therefore, there is a Article 102(2). To remove one great delusion, three very important at the time of politicians, how important it is to be that they declared themselves, who said they had written the Constitution in the political sense, talked to some abroad, as regards Article 102. The three representatives of Serbia, the strongest political parties, have convinced these foreign representatives to trade in mandates and have all given concrete examples. Today you had a situation and an opportunity to hear what was going on with the mandates. Representatives from abroad found understanding about it, so they said – we expect that Serbia will eventually get out of the situation so that tycoons, criminals or who knows who else will provide funds to provide, in a way, the majority in the National Assembly, through the purchase of MPs and their mandates. They recorded it as a remark. You know why they said there was an objection? An imperative mandate can affect the future choice of judges. That's the point of 53th of what you're always interpreting here. That's the situation. All parties need to protect their mandates. We expected that this provision of the Constitution, Article 102, paragraph 2, should there be a need to elaborate, elaborate in one appropriate way, in the function of preserving the electoral will, and you go one step further, and with one foolish formulation you promote a free mandate. Literally speaking, you tell the tycoons and all those interested -- we have many stakeholders in the Republic of Serbia who don't care who's going to be in power. Why? They're looking for a suitable authority so they can't take bills for what they did. The question of ethics is whether someone is dealing with politics from ideology, political beliefs, or is experiencing the mandate of a MP to satisfy his personal, material interests. Then you had a chance to see, whose personal material interests mattered first, he quits, he goes. Of course, it never does so voluntarily, but some pressures also occur – whether it is legalisation, whether there are some criminal charges, whether there are promises, whether there is something that goes right in the pocket. How do we protect that? It's a problem all over Serbia, it's not a party's problem. You had a SPO representative. What did he tell you? You had a representative of the G17 plus, what he told you. You had a representative of the LDP, who are against this solution in the Constitution, but admit what it says in the Constitution, and the DS goes one step further, tells the story of an absolutely free term. Let me remind you, Mrs. Kolundzija, I must remind you, we have the head of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Bossa Nenadic. She discussed this issue of free mandates at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. At that time, the 1990 Constitution was in force, where it was a promotional principle of a free term. There have been disputes over some mandates. Here, just one piece of the argument to read to you. It is said - the MP may have a political and moral obligation to restore the mandate, but the legal obligation is not established by the Constitution, the 1990 Constitution is meant. The legal obligation has been established today in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 102 paragraph 2. It's a legal obligation, and you're going over it. Why? What do you want to achieve? You're going directly into something called the opposite of the RS Constitution. My Bosko Ristic says - I advocate a free mandate. I understand him as a man who has some attitude about something, but let's talk about something constitutional, something that isn't constitutional, that we're dealing with it. Here, on the case, is the same judge today, Bosa Nenadić, according to the 1990 Constitution, said – not because it is not prescribed by the Constitution. As a result, the Constitution has inserted the provision of Article 102(2). Because of this Constitutional Court decision. Now you say - we don't admit it either. Wait – how does Serbia protect electoral will? Do we have any means to protect the polling station? We don't have any means to protect the media. Excuse me, please, how can you protect yourself in the national authority of the National Assembly? Find a solution. We offer help to find a solution in accordance with the Constitution. Why? Article 102(2) has been confirmed by citizens in the referendum. They confirmed their election will in the election. What happens tomorrow? Let go of what happens tomorrow. Maybe tomorrow the tycoons buy everything, so they've got 250 of their MPs here, but let's watch what's today. The mandate is known for how long, four years. That's why elections are being held, at the right time intervals because it counts that there is likely to be a change in election will. How can something change without a choice? So fundamentally, it penetrates the core of the state, the legislative authority. I'm talking about constitutional morality. Can we get out of here and say we have constitutional morality? Here we boast that we are inserting into the law something that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35225	Seventeen minutes and twenty seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a national message from Hope Kolundji, the proposed representative..
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35226	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't see how you can interpret Article 37's provision as suspending constitutional provisions. So, the Constitution in Article 102, paragraph 2, which you mention, says - the MP is free to put his mandate at the disposal of a political party under the conditions of a certain law unrelentingly. So the MP is free. It depends on his will whether he does it or not. We, in Article 37 alone, are not working out this provision, because we believe it is not the subject of this law but the law on the selection of MPs, we say that the MP freely has his mandate in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So I really don't understand how you can even interpret that we have suspended the constitutional provision and that we have now declared this law some new rule that is outside the constitutional solution outside the law. I fully agree that even in developed parliamentary democracies, debate is being held on how to protect the electoral will of citizens, at the same time to free the people from party dictatorships, so to speak, and to have freedom to represent citizens' interests, and many countries have different solutions. It can't be said that there's one single solution to be applied. With this law, we didn't want to, nor could we go further than the Constitution and never went further than the Constitution. You here accuse the government and say that the government would have to provide a system of values where morale is respected, and you have in mind that, in some system of values that we're supposed to be responsible for, those you've declared to be your most valuable, pearls among themselves, the most honest, the most honorable, the most honorable, the most qualified, have shown that this same morality that you're talking about doesn't have. So how could we, when you created them, when you gave them attributes of honor, honesty, morality, role model for all Serbian citizens, and then you say -- they proved immoral. I don't know where our fault is. I don't dispute whether you have the right to think it's shown or not, but I just want to tell you that the law and the Constitution in that case was not possible to respect, because you entrusted them with the resignations, both theirs and theirs, and not us. That's what this is about. So, if they were guards, the bankers of your blanco resignations, how could we be responsible for the fact that they said, you know what, those resignations are gone, there's no legal basis for taking the mandates away. You still have to be honest. I understand your feeling that you've been wronged. I understand your feeling that you've been deceived. I understand you believed the wrong ones. I understand that you've created those you now call different names, I don't want to use any, but you can't accuse others of that. But look at yourself and see how it's possible that it happened to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35227	National MP Zoran Krasic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35228	I'm really disappointed. Do you know why, Hope? I resort to some ruse, believe me, so I read some standards, read some regulations, read something that people who are far, far above you and me wrote. I just read to you what the creator of this parliamentary democracy and the representation of the people, John Stuart Mill, wrote. You even denied him. Now you're going after something I didn't even want to talk about. I didn't want to do any specifics. The specifics will be dealt with in some other way. I just wanted to draw your attention in principle. The MP is free and the MP is free, there is a huge difference. If you had no intention of devaluing Article 102(2), then why is there a Article 37 in the first place? Why does it exist? As I ask you, why did you put in a provision that the MP was going into retirement terms? I guess that's what that means. The same Article 37 in this performance as you gave it is so unconstitutional because it is understood that the Constitution is valid. Where do you need to specify, to transform an imperative mandate into a free term? With what right? With the right to receive 126 votes? That's what you always have, but it doesn't give you the right to break the Constitution. Mrs. Kolundjia, I am the one who wrote to the Constitutional Court that there is a conflict of interest between the mayor and the MP. If you know what I got from that Constitutional Court, the conclusion is "refused". In translation-- you're right, we don't have the guts to solve it. The Anti-Corruption Agency showed up, and what did she decide? Exactly what I wrote. Be a little careful when you bring out some of your disagreements with my views. Let it be based on some arguments, on some facts, and be based on knowledge, if not the Constitution, even a little theory. What you said really doesn't deserve to be mentioned in the National Assembly. We're talking about a problem at the level of principle, because this is a principle provision. You're bringing in something concrete. Constitutional morality. Who defends constitutional morality? We all have to defend him, because if we don't defend him here, what message goes to the citizens, what message goes to the children? What's this about? You have a majority and you can always finish whatever you want, but the question is – what is the reflection in society of what is being done here?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35229	Three minutes. The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35230	I fully agree that unprincipled attacks on the National Assembly do harm not only to the National Assembly, but also to Serbia to all citizens of Serbia. As you do, I share the indignation of all those who feel that it is not the attack and degradation of the individuals sitting here, but also the degradation of the institution. Like you, I will fight with all the means that we have as a parliament that such things don't happen. I am very fond of even having the National Assembly as an institution seeking the responsibility of the media. I'm very fond of it, because I really deeply believe that the degradation of the institution actually destroys the system of democracy and order that should, among other things, rest on this institution and that you don't have to argue with me. From what you're saying, I'd rather conclude that article 37 is too high than that it's anti-constitutional. The question is whether some of these provisions are too high, because they are more precise, more elaborated by some other laws and therefore, by your conviction and some others, there is no need to be in this law. We can really talk about this. I don't think it's against the Constitution, and that's because my position so far is very important to us, because indeed all those who worked on this text have strictly adhered to the provisions of the Constitution, and at no point was it in any way possible for anyone to injure the Constitution in any way. I just wanted to say one more thing. We wanted to participate in this business all together. I don't want to take responsibility from us for failing to do that. So I'm not taking responsibility off us. Maybe the approach wasn't good, maybe the way we started, so the interrupted wasn't the happiest, but I want to say that the responsibility can't be just ours. If not all others show the will to participate in this, it is hardly possible for one party, no matter what effort, to lead to the change of that side's will. What you said, and yet it is not true, there is no act that is brought by general consent. So there is no law and no act that is prescribed, necessary, necessary general consent and that, whether or not someone likes it, is basically a parliamentary multi-party democratic system. Most of them exist, what is qualified most of them, therefore, some of them are determined and most of them can be different for different acts, but there is no act, not just with us, which is brought by the general consent of all entities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35231	You have no right to a replica. There is no reason for replication in the contents of the National Parliament of Hope Kolundzija. I ask the MPs of Momir Markovic and colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group not to receive. Please don't throw another time. National MP Milan Stanimirovic is not in the hall. People's MP Mirko Chikiriz, too. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35232	Madam Chairman, if it's no problem, just to announce how much time the SRS has left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35233	Eight minutes and 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35234	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, in our people it would be said to be a regret of the Lord's efforts. What you showed today in the National Assembly deserves a good law, a hard work done, and not just you today, but a number of our colleagues who have been working on this bill for about two years. I expected, after a bill like this, that we wouldn't have this many MPs, and it doesn't mean, when I say this, that everyone is unwarrantedly absent. I expected, among other things, that we would work on it. There's something else I need to tell you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Now that snake is in your troubles, which we want to talk about. We've done this job for the SRS, but she's in your troubles, I don't mean literally, we understand each other, and you see what you're going to do next. At the time of the worst writing on this House, it was really not clear to me, and I never agreed to it, but I wondered along with my fellow MPs from the SRS, which is why you from the assembly majority are doing it. I really didn't get it, I get it today. You have succeeded with the citizens of Serbia, not you, among you there are many honest and honest people, and not you, it has been orchestrated to come from the government, I now conclude, so that the citizens of Serbia would think – well, there will be no large pensions, there will be no large salaries, and you will push through Articles 37, 38 and 39. The basic essence is that. When you show, or tell someone that this law has been passed, you will say, "Here is what we have now." Someone asked you to help him and protect him in stealing his mandate, asked you to help him. Since you and the respected citizens of Serbia, whenever you watch this transmission, what you collect signatures, it's your right, do it, it's a simple farce. If someone wanted to beat Boris Tadic's regime, they wouldn't have split the SRS. Who helped with that? We were able to get a completely accurate answer today. G 17 plus, their authorised representative has declared how they see the provisions of Article 37 and when it comes to the political party and the MP. The SPS representatives also talked about it and I think everyone else, a SPS counterpart, an authorised representative, the head of the parliamentary group, said today should be a solemn character. In order for this session to have a solemn character, we are adopting a bill that should regulate the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not only the MPs of the people, but also the congregation service and all that is related to the National Assembly. It's supposed to be so, we really got one real bill. This is too dilute. I don't know if you know what badness is, but this is a shithole like that. You know, it's a device, to call it a device, through which it touches the water to the water wagon, and it has to be hollow, so is this law. There is absolutely nothing in it, on the side which contains part of the Constitution, part of the Rules of Procedure and part of the legal provisions. But if it's in Article 98. The Constitution, and you have taken this over in Article 2 of this bill, that the National Assembly is the most representative body, that we do not depreciate now, you have made it clear with your colleague Martinovic, the most body and institution of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia, then indeed with much more attention, much more wisdom, much more and more expertise and political knowledge should have approached this problem. I have no doubt that there was not enough profession among fellow Members of Parliament who participated in the drafting of this bill, and you are wondering, you are already wondering why other parliamentary groups have not shown a desire to participate in this. They're not because we don't accept, we don't agree to something like this, we don't agree to not respecting the will of Serbian citizens. You say that, and another political party helps you and says – we now need to free the MP from any influence. You know, let me tell you, elections are organised. If they weren't organized, then each of us could vote in his own house, apartment or wherever he is. No, we're doing it at the polling station. Political parties or political parties organisedly collect signatures so far, go to the polls and represent their programme. The programme gets or doesn't get support from Serbian citizens, gets to the extent to which it gets, and then in the coming period, we present it to the citizens of Serbia. Since Serbian citizens cannot have a direct influence on the government of the Republic of Serbia because they do not choose it, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses it, and we are obliged to give an answer to those who chose us, and you seem to have told me that Serbian citizens are the highest authority. I agree with you. But what is your relationship with these Serbian citizens? Indeed, perhaps I am speaking emotionally now, I don't give a shit when I hear from representatives of the congregation's majority who say - the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing great. I suppose, dear colleagues, that during this period of two months, when parliament did not sit, you had the opportunity to be in small towns around the interior of Serbia, unlike the ministers from your political parties that you support, who go only where some promotions and promote political parties in front of people who are mostly already convinced. Do you know, Mrs. Kolundjia, that an old lady comes to pay for the electricity, brings 500 dinars and says: by the time I get back to my village I need 80 dinars, leave the rest for electricity. This is what we were supposed to have on the agenda today and does not release anyone from responsibility, and first of all you, because you said – there is no decadent provision in which time period this law should be passed. If it wasn't prescribed, and it was long ago, then we wouldn't have had the theft of parliamentary mandates, we wouldn't have everything that doesn't need to happen to us, we wouldn't have such terrible writings about parliament, where we're all to some extent responsible, and certainly those MPs who don't support the government don't have the means to fight it. That was a little bit more to talk about, not this. You said procedures are regulated by the Rules of Procedure. That's not true. This law contains provisions on how and how the minutes are conducted or the stenogram from the National Assembly session. It stands in this bill of law and a series of other things that should be regulated by the Rules of Procedure we put into law, and that's not good, and you did it because you had to do it like that. When I say you mean those who participated in writing this proposal, but here the public of work, Article 11, is provided by creating conditions for television, internet transmission, etc. Well, it's not what you insisted on, it's not what we're insisting on right now. It's actually nothing. One day when your positions are compromised, it will be too late and you will certainly not be able to. But today you think you will. You will then try to change these Articles 37, 38 to save what you won in some elections, but that will not be possible. He could have been our former fellow MP Ferzo Celovic, I don't think a man knows what hit him. He's not an MP anymore. Yesterday he thought he was and he was, he came in the morning, and he probably checked in neatly, but they told him you weren't a folk MP anymore. Those for whom the SRS had proper resignations, they could not be resolved. What's he talking about? He's talking about knowingly participating in the theft of parliamentary mandates. And it's not about three, about 20, any number of mandates, but it's about a much larger number of Serbian citizens who have made their will in the elections and said what they want in the coming period when the issue is organised participation in elections and an organised desire to help political parties. You've been deaf about it, and you're gonna pay a very high price for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35235	People's MP, the time at your representative's disposal has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35236	You should have acted in accordance with the times when you were in opposition. The real opposition representative is the SRS and its president, and its president will best unite all those who want this regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35237	The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35238	So does the god of effort regret it? I don't know. When I said two years ago, I just wanted to say that two years ago, this job started. Far from being done and it is seen from the fact that so far, just before the finalization of this text, there have been huge breaks in which nothing has been done. So I'm not saying that this is something that it's been working on for two years. What I'm saying is that two years ago and maybe more has been done and that for reasons that aren't crucial now, it hasn't been done yet. I think it's hard to argue now when you say someone made us do it, because it's completely pointless. No one has any interest, right to tell you, to make us do anything. Everyone doesn't care. It is up to us MPs to see if we will make an effort to position this institution as a truly important institution in one democratic system or not. No one else cares. Especially not the government, to be clear. The government would absolutely not do that, nor would it interest her. Were we interested in passing this law? Were we determined to do the best we could? Whether there was enough wisdom or more wisdom in you, with great pleasure I will look at your amendments. Every shred of wisdom I find more than we have invested, with great pleasure I will accept, both on behalf of the promoter and on behalf of the parliamentary majority. What is really important to us are the citizens of Serbia and however we turn, each of us lives as a citizen of Serbia, I don't know if you know any of those who don't live as a citizen of Serbia, have families, sisters, fathers and mothers, etc., and we all know how this country lives. If the demagogical approach is that because living is difficult, because there is a problem, there should be no job that we are authorized to do and we are expected to do it, then I can't agree with that. I think that in parallel with solving citizens' problems, creating conditions to live better, we should do that job that matters and when it comes to this institution, and I can't agree that this isn't the topic we need to talk about and that this isn't a question that we, the only responsibility in this institution, are put in the right way. I don't think we're dealing with our status issues with this, and I don't think this is about us. This is about the institution, and when I look at the thing like that, then I think it's the responsibility of each of us, and your responsibility is just as much as mine, to do everything we can to turn this institution into a credible one, which will have not only greater trust in the citizens, but will enjoy the reputation, and our decisions, no matter what we dispute with them, the citizens will be able to believe more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35239	The word has a national emissary, Maja Lausevic. After that, MP Jadranka Jovisic and she was last registered on the list of speakers. National MP Sreto Peric has been reported. You have no right to a replica. There was nothing in the presentation of Hope Kolundji's folk letter. She interpreted you quite well. I'm listening to both of you, MP. I listen very carefully to anyone who speaks. There's no reason to get a replica. There's no reason in this case. National MP Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35240	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the bill on the National Assembly regulates and determines the position, jurisdiction, organisation and way of working and decision-making of the National Assembly, as well as the position, rights and duties of Members of Parliaments, financing, emblems, symbols and markings of the National Assembly, the attitude of the National Assembly towards other state bodies. In a few words, I would refer to the paper in relation to the positive legislation. Well, that's what members of the 14th are like. The bill provides for the Honorary Unit of the Serbian Army to be deployed in front of the main entrance to the House of National Assembly, in exactly the following cases, at the beginning of the first session, at the beginning and completion of the regular session, at the time of taking the oath of the President of the Republic and at the time of the government's oath. Article 17. The draft law shall enter into an oath after the decision to confirm the mandate to the Members of Parliament. The intensity of the legislators was double. On the one hand, to formally raise Parliament's reputation for us, and on the other hand, Article 66 provides for the financial independence of the National Assembly, which will reflect the improvement of not only in terms of the resources available for the work of the National Assembly. We witnessed, of course, the complexity of the organisation of both the pleum and the working bodies of the National Assembly and parliamentary delegations. The legislator introduces a college of the National Assembly that actually represents a single body that convenes the president to coordinate the work and consult on the work of the National Assembly. The paper in the Proposal for a Law on the National Assembly is introduced by Article 28, that the National Assembly selects members of committees and deputy board members on a proposal from parliamentary groups. I believe that, in the further phase of the development of parliamentaryism, we will actually have the capacity of committees as working bodies of the Serbian Parliament and have interesting experiences, and above all in the cradle of parliamentaryism - Britain. We must point out that the amendments to the current Rules of Procedure have actually raised the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly, and what are the exact details, but also the reports of the European Commission. In this way, a normative framework is created, in fact, which will, by harmonising assumptions for the alignment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the adoption of other acts provided for in this law, thus enabling the smooth functioning and work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35241	The word has an MP, Jadranka Jovisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35242	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, we have before us today the draft law on the Assembly. We were hoping that he would be a fruit of co-operation for all MPs. We're sorry to find out today that that's not the case. We regret that it is, precisely because this law has tried to strengthen Parliament's position in a way that has not been done so far. You don't have to go back in time. You need to learn from her. Therefore, we really believe that the adoption of this law is one big step towards strengthening the position of parliament, as an institution that assumes the development of a democratic society, a strong and stable society, a society in which all MPs will be accountable to all citizens and citizens of Serbia, not only to their voters. A large number of issues have been opened and a large number of solutions to this bill have been offered. One of the most important issues for us is the very public in the work of the MPs, which is regulated by Article 11. It is very important that Serbian citizens and citizens know what their representatives in parliament are doing for them and their interests. That was a very important question for us, and we think it's done very well. The public in the work will be enabled. A very important issue is the issue of parliament financing, i.e. the paper is that parliament will be financially independent. Parliament will propose a budget. The government can give its opinion, but even if it disagrees, it must accept parliament's proposal as it is. This is very important, because parliament's financial independence allows in fact to achieve the basic role of parliament, which is a control role in relation to the government. We truly believe that this law builds parliament as a very important institution of democratic society. We call on all those parties that share our values and who believe that by strengthening institutions we can make one even better, more stable and stronger democratic society, to vote in the day of voting for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-23-0.u35243	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. If no one wants a word, in which case, I'll conclude the search in principle. We're finishing work for today. The paper continues on Thursday, February 25th, at 10:00 p.m., with a debate in particular on the draft law on the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on the same day, on Thursday, February 25th, as the last Thursday of the month, all MPs will have the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister and ministers who will take part in the session on parliamentary issues. Thank you.
