ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43495	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are 94 MPs in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before moving to a further discussion, the National Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the President, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1 235 at a session of the National Assembly orally in one address for up to five minutes, Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and the transition to a further debate. Would one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some time ago, when there were several ministers here from the Serbian government, I asked one question concerning Mr Dulic, Minister of Ecology and Environmental Protection, but since things have changed very much since then, I will ask that question again and I will change it a little bit. I think everyone is aware that the company for the collection, processing and destruction of the waste "Kemis" Valjevo, which has otherwise been owned by 100% of the company "Gorenje" since 2004, and which has a single employee, and this director, has asked the Ministry of Environmental Protection to issue an integrated permit to store hazardous waste at the site HP 7022/40 Valjevo. This is the location used by the company Gorenje, which in Valjevo has a white-tech factory. It is a location, about a mile from the city center, located in the middle of the settlement, the largest town settlement of Kolubara, located 50 m from the waterway of the Kolubara River, between four large Valjeva settlements, practically in the courtyard of a secondary school and next to the kindergarten. In that space, the Kemis company, according to what it asked for, would therefore have one employee and submitted a financial report for 2007 and 2008, no data for 2009, and that in a 120-square-square-sized hall created a storage site for hazardous waste. The waste would be collected across Serbia's territory, packs in appropriate packaging and transported to a processing site or to a warehouse in Valjevo. In this warehouse, waste would be safe and delayed by species. Whether it's a 120 square-square performance or it's going to be built more, and when a larger amount is collected, it would be transported in specially equipped trucks. That's what the Kemis explains. ''In the warehouse, that waste would be further checked, repacked, prepared for storage and transport, liquid waste would be transferred to larger storage tanks (and all of this to 120 squares). This will be done by hand or by appropriate pumps (see how good the equipment is), depending on the type and characteristics of the waste. ''What equipment guarantees the citizens of Valjev that they will be and how environmentally safe and safe? It will be metal or plastic tanks, then, containers of a meter of cubic, metal or plastic barrel. Why does this associate you with an affair called "Helios," I don't know. Thus, at the same time 50 tons of waste would be stored at the same time in Valjevo. According to the Waste Management Act, Article 20 paragraph 1 point 5, the Ministry would, based on opinions it would receive from the local community, mean from the government of the city of Valjev, give its opinion further and give this permission. I know, the local community opinion is negative. However, today I see in the paper that Minister Dulic will give this license. What's most interesting, it's not about the location I've been reading about and the company's request to Kemis, it's about another secret location. I don't know why this reminds me of that secret location on the Great Plane. When it comes to Minister Dulic, he is most known these days for what he handed over as his property and title in one newspaper, where he regrets that he handed it over and said "I turned out stupid because I wanted to be honest". He is otherwise known as the richest minister in the Serbian government. I'm afraid that his fortune can be partly associated with such a permit. I also ask Minister Dulic and Serbian Prime Minister Cvetkovic -- is it possible that the government of Serbia, which has made the citizens of Valjev completely unhappy, took their region, ruined the city, ruined everything that could have been ruined and will now ruin their environment, so is it possible that this government will continue the work that NATO has done so well? It's good, I have to tell you, a terrible pain in the ass during the bombing. He was able to recover ecologically, and now this job continues, Mr. Dulic. What interests me, too, is the report the Ministry made during a visit to the location the company requested. The third question, I'm interested in being delivered what is the new location where this dump is to be built and which the citizens of Valjev will still have to tour at the port of 500km.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43497	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I have to break the promise that I will no longer ask questions when it comes to "News" and Luke "Belgrade", but this cannot be overcome. The document discusses what crime is and what kind of criminals it is when it comes to privatisation, i.e. looting the property of Serbian citizens. I have here a solution of the Ministry of Economic and Property Transformation since 29 February 2000, which has been annulled all about the company Novosti. Mr. Novakovic, among other things, I assume he knows that, since he had the opportunity to represent small shareholders. After this solution, since they did not appeal to the Greater Trade Court, this solution has normally become legal and the company "News" has been deleted from the Interim Register. All actions that had been divided by that time had become virtually zero. Although this solution was made after a few years, or in 2002, after various forgeries, Ujdurmi and all that, the company "News" appears in the Central Register and is now asking how is it possible to appear in the Central Register and has been deleted from the Temporary Register? So, a fake was made. In 2006, privatisation began. Here I have a letter to the director of the stock exchange, Gordani Dobrinić, which was sent on 24 August and a warning that the actions "News" cannot be put on the market because there is this solution that has all been annulled. Now you see, that is, the citizens of Serbia that we live in. Who's running this country? This kind of robbery, this kind of crime, I don't think it exists in history, that although it's all clear, everything is clear, we are in a situation that a certain group, no matter what, is ruthlessly robbing the property of Serbian citizens. That's why we have a problem with "Maxie" today, for "Luka Belgrade", and now I promise you we'll open an affair of Pekabeta or any other privatisation to open, you'll see it's a crime. Apparently, some things change, some already have their capital, so they've moved to some other countries, but I warn them and I tell them it won't be worth anything. Anything they have robbed from Serbian citizens will have to be returned to Serbian citizens. Among other things, I asked if a partial balance of the company "Borba", the newspaper publishing company "Borba" was carried out? I didn't get that answer, and I don't need to get it. There's never been a partial balance. Then I ask you how could there ever be a privatisation of Fight, a trading network of Fights, News and all the companies that were in the news company "The Battle"? It could because you have criminals in the government, ministers who are pure criminals, who allowed it, but the problem is that although all evidence exists, you absolutely don't react. I don't know what it takes for you to start these questions? What are you waiting for? To pick up the property and get out of the country? What else do you need to be told that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office would do something about it? Now I'm asking the question that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office gave an answer as far as it came in the pre-criminal procedure, did they find any elements to initiate the criminal proceedings after all this? I'm interested, if they are, who is this criminal trial against?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43499	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43500	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to be the key words in Serbia: robbery, crime and corruption. I'm going to mention a large company of giants in Serbia, which practically lives its last days. It's about privatizing the "Comgrap" holding you could read about in the press these days. This holding company that used to employ about 15,000 workers today has only 750 workers. Salary has not been received since the beginning of 2009, since 1 January 2010, workers have no health insurance either. The promises were different when the company was privatised in July. The company "Integral Engineering" from Laktaša near Banja Luka, owned by Slobodan Stankovic, bought 50.3% of the company for 4.3m euros. At the time, the assessment of the value of respected economist Branko Dragas spoke about the value of the 130m-euro firm. There were 11 companies in the "Comgrap" holding company. In Makiš there was the production of an annual carpentry capacity for 11,000 apartments, bricks in Obrenovac, a kiosk factory in the settlement of Kijevo and many other companies. In Sokobanja there was a hotel of 1,834 square meters, in Obrenovac 18 hectares of land, in Makiš 8.7, in Kiev 3,9, three production halls in Železnik, Kiev and Rakovica, total area of 7,200 square meters, six concrete factories, two restaurants, 635 beds for workers. The prospectus for the tender sale "Comgrapa" shows the smaller square of the most expensive locations. Here, let's say, in The Terraces, The Terraces 4. The "Comgrap" had 3,243 square meters of business space, and it was shown only 1.439. In Kosovo Street, here near us, there are 182 squares, and hidden 1,257 squares. In Sokobanja, this 1,834 square-square hotel is hidden 1,734 square squares, and only 100 squares are displayed. Owner of the "Integral Engineering" Slobodan Stankovic and also owner of the "Comgrapa" took over business space in Kosovo Street for 3.2 million, compensation, no payment, due to the said debt "Comgrapa". During the sale of the majority stake, Integral pledged to invest in Komgrap 4.3m euros in 16 months and employ 2,000 workers. The investment plan, however, has never been realised. In 2009, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the To this day, nothing has been done about it. Interestingly, the key players in this dirty work are the majority owner Slobodan Stankovic, CEO of Komgrapa, Darko Pasic and chairman of the board of directors Darko Matijasevic, otherwise former interior minister in Republika Srpska. By the way, Stankovic is said to be the only fictitious owner of this company, and he is the real owner of Mr. Dodik. Whether this is true or not, the government should still answer one quick question – is it of state interest that Serbia is robbed in this way?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43501	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word to ask for an explanation? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jankovic and Elvira Kovac. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the proposing representative, Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister, has called for the meeting to be attended by Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Finance Minister. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Pores Procedure and the Tax Administration (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dragan Stevanović, Vladan Jeremic, Milorad Buha, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Edip Sheriffs, Slobodan Maras and a group of 21 MPs from the Group of MPs to Serbia. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made, and by written means of a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia has withdrawn the amendment to Article 15. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before moving to the revision of the amendment to Article 1, I remind Members of the People's Parliament that representatives are authorised under this item of the agenda, as well as others in which they were in the joint principled search, MP Slobodan Maras – MP of the LDP, MP Milan J. Nikolic – MP group of SPS-JS, MP Vladimir Ilic – MP group G 17 plus and MP Milorad Buha – MP of the SRS. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, the explanation for this amendment I submitted to Article 3 was the same as with the amendments I submitted to Article 21, so I will use the time of the parliamentary group and talk about both. What you are and how you intend to do in this law cannot. It just -- it can't. You have no argument to defend it, because if you had, you would have written them in an explanation that you rejected this amendment. In your explanation, you have called upon the Law of Local Self-Government, which, for the aspect of criticism or disputing your intention, was not the basis for me. In your explanation, you wrote that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why, in accordance with the provisions of Article 6. The law on the financing of local self-government, I made a lapsus a moment ago, the unit of local self-government is the original income realised on its territory, regardless of whether they are charged in the procedure of regular or forced charges, or in what form they are charged. But we didn't challenge it at all, and our idea wasn't to challenge the right of local self-government to make their incomes come true in one way or another. We even welcomed it in our discussions and insisted on it. The revenues of local self-government are more important and important than the government, which has been late for years with the construction of mechanisms to facilitate the process or process of billing revenues at local level. But now the government has come into one situation that there are no budgets, from local, regional to state-level, so we're going to think in different ways that these budget gaps from local to state-owned are being patched up in a way that is objectively out of line with the law. You can now appeal to the Constitution, because in 2006, the Constitution defined the form of public property, but from that constitution, there were no laws that you could find a foothold for all of what you're trying to do. There is no property owned by local self-government, and here you predict it. This seriously raises the credibility of you who wrote this law and the application of this law. There is a law that was passed in 1995 or 1996, and that is the Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia. Property status and who can possess property, unfortunately, in Serbia and today regulates the law. Menjan was 1995, 1996, 1997 and 2005. If you had arguments to say why you didn't bring it to the Constitution, it's been four or five years since the Constitution, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has not found fit to pass a law that would regulate property status. Now you're in an awkward position. One objectively good and correct intention, achieving income at a local level, cannot be achieved because you do not have a law that regulates to the end of property. The property, unfortunately, or so it is, has the sole state of Serbia, and any changes to that status can only be addressed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and can be dealt with by the Property Directorate. But even that's not exactly defined, it's about, so how when, either one or the other likes it, or how it estimates that there is or no political interest, that property can change its status, etc. But the law as a law, which will regulate, predict and define the possibility that some immovableity becomes property of local self-government does not exist. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in Serbia today. All of this is the gentleman who makes up ten years of post-Petoctobaric power was supposed to think in time. You are today due to the situation that no money has come to an opportunity to predict and build a good mechanism, but it is unsustainable because it is contrary to some other laws. I don't know if I'm going to express myself correctly, I'm not a lawyer – local self-governments don't have the right to acquire property and until you get it to them, you can't apply this. Now I ask – what happens if someone gets seized by a local self-government house on a tax income? He can't sell it, he's going public and he's calling for a law that's still in force and he's suing the state, so what's going to happen? The state is required under the law to return it to him, because it will objectively appeal to something that is still in force. You could have first passed a law that would derivate the 1996 Law, and then this idea of yours would have been good and sustainable in practice. Unfortunately, you didn't do it. On the one hand, the Republic budget is hollow and would be twice as hollow if you entered capital costs seriously. The ways to secure your income are barren. A few days ago, I'm listening to the story, the records are being sold, if they're not sold for more than three months, the revenues can't be made to patch up the budget deficit, so you're forced to re-arm them for three months, and then you're only able to sell something. Due to the lack of funds in the budget, local self-government transfers are lower. They're squirming in financial troubles, and where they can provide and make incomes, they spend them on madness and nonsense. Instead of using and controlling the state's mechanisms, and unfortunately to the government, and to your ministry and many pass by your hands and by your fingers, and further and further further and further we weave into a network that we can't get out of. Once again I appeal to you – so we did not challenge your idea of providing mechanisms to improve and stabilise revenues to local self-government, but you cannot provide it in this way. That is why we have given you the opportunity to see this in the next amendment, your solution to trust or to opt for the use of units of local self-government and immovableity. So this and the other legislation that is in force, unfortunately, is also in conflict and can produce serious problems through the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43503	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. National MP Milorad Buha and Dejan Mirovic have been reported. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will continue here where my colleague, Stevanovic, stopped for public property and the property of local self-government. In this House, for years we have been listening to the cry of the authorities about how they will carry out decentralisation, regionalisation and thus enable certain revenues to local self-government or other communities through certain assets currently owned by the state. Since 2000, however, we have not had adequate system law to regulate the system of property, both state and province, and local self-government and public-communal systems. I will focus my discussion precisely on local self-government and the necessity of serious access to this problem in terms of ensuring certain regulatory and legal conditions for the acquisition of property, the use of property by local self-government, and thus through the collection of certain incomes from property local self-government will be able to achieve far greater software activities than it currently has. What's the government's task, what you haven't done until today? Under the urgent regulation of property by one general law, which you have promised for ten years. If that's acute, here, I'll tell you, I haven't read your party programmes, but I'm convinced that in every program that's in power among the party's first priority tasks, decentralisation, regionalization and the possibility of turning state property into some other form of property, I mean transferring some of the common property and property to the province and local self-government. The second thing, which is very important and must be noted, is that we currently lacked adequate legislation, because the Privatisation Act did not regulate the privatisation of the public sector, the public-communal sector. In practice, we have situations where state property is alienated, moving into private property in the public-communal system. I know several companies that have executed the sale of works or the transfer of a certain portion of property, which is state property, in private property in the municipal system. So, this government that has been promising this for ten years has not done, nor has it been amended and complemented by the property law, nor is it an adequate general property law, nor has it passed a law on the privatisation of a public-communal system. Then, in practice, we have the fact that public-communal enterprises, unable to provide certain resources and certain conditions for the performance of certain activities, give it up, and the activities give way to private enterprises, which take over and make payments. On the other hand, these companies subscribe to part of the property, transfer that part of the property without sale, without compensation, etc. We've got one glass. The current government is to blame for this condition. You talk about it all the time, and it just takes a little effort. Mrs Dragutinović, it is also your ministry's jurisdiction, you must, if you sincerely want to do this job, then that the sooner you form a task force, the sooner it is probably formed at the Ministry level, but interrestically you will probably have a lot of problems with other ministries, and in particular it will be expressed at the level of the government that you will insert the property into local self-government, which in the province etc. But the sooner the better. It's better to fight there, but there'll be a solution. Now we have a colourful in practice, we have damage in practice and numerous abuses by local self-government, and it doesn't have to be that way. The economy and regional development ministry and the government have established a resolution commission for the privatisation of the public utility system, which has been working for more than a year and there is one draft on the privatisation of the municipal system. However, we do not have sufficient insight into the problem in this area. The proposed draft is inadequate. I'm sure he'll have a lot of problems in practice, but the problem is he's waiting. We've been privatizing for 20 years, and we haven't gotten to the bottom of it yet. It's the slowest and worst privatisation. It's a model without a model. Mrs Dragutinović, the problems of local self-government today stem from the fact that your ministry, here in two years, has done nothing here, I've been monitoring your websites and you've never brought any problems to your site about it. You have not made an effort to form a commission, to create preconditions, along with municipalities, to create a draft that will pass the public debate, which will come here to parliament and the Assembly will adopt it anyway. The company suffers, suffers from the property that is being devastationed and destroyed, and suffers local self-government on whose territory is real estate or movable property, which can be used, which can be cashed, which can give income, contribution and that income and contribution will be entered into local budgets and will be used for the purposes for which local self-government is financed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43505	Six minutes and 30 seconds of the authorized representative's time. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43506	Ladies and gentlemen, our intention before submitting this amendment was not to make the work of local self-government more difficult, on the contrary. However, from a legal point of view, we have always demanded in other laws and in this too a kind of precision, compliance with other laws. In this sense, we are starting from this principle which, as we have already discussed in the discussion of the principle, is also recorded in the textbooks at the Faculty of Economics, where you teach and teach, and in the book of public finances, where fiscal decentralisation is said to have very important implications for the functioning of the public sector, and the very services of the public sector at the local level depend on how local self-government works and therefore the tax administration at that level. However, as we have stated, and it has direct ties to this amendment, in principle debate, of course, we do not dispute that you had good intentions with this law, but the limiting factor is exactly what I say, the shadow of the IMF that determines you in fact, and it is recognised in the letter of intent, a kind of so-called. the reform of the tax administration. It's this external factor that's mentioned in the letter of intent. When under the pressure of the IMF you are forced, the government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce the revenues of the local administration by 160m euros, then it is clear that this law is insufficient and will not improve the position of the local administration, and thus the tax administration. In that sense, the letter of intent also requires, both in December and in June, a reduction in local administrations, as well as administrations at the republican level. We therefore believe that all members of this law should be very clear and precise and in that sense this amendment has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43507	Two minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this can be said to be one technical amendment, in general, what is changed in Article 24, or in Article 6. It's a bill of law. I've been given some reason that these obligations, as far as local self-government units are concerned, are already regulated by Article 2a, that is, the newly added Article 2b of the bill, so it's simply not necessary to continue with the obligations of the local self-government units in Article 24. However, Madam Minister, I must tell you that the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration can be interpreted by the Ministry of Finance, when it comes to the Tax Administration, can be interpreted by the Tax Administration and can also be interpreted by the Tax Administration and the Local Self-Government Units. So in some of our past experience, we had the experience of having one opinion that the Ministry of Finance would benefit from the issue of space owned by the Republic of Serbia is not subject to the sales of goods and services, and the tax administration conducted to subject and charge units of local self-government and tax and interest. So, when a man takes the opportunity to interpret when he reads Article 2a, 2b and 24, he can interpret it any way he wants, because in Article 2a, the obligations he has and the rights that the tax administration has, regardless of whether the units of local self-government or the Republic tax administration, it's about determining tax collection. Article 2b, too, and, of course, filing criminal charges. So these are the rights and obligations of what is intended and what must be done by both tax administrations. In Article 24, the rights of a citizen, i.e. a taxpayer, who can apply to tax administrations whether a unit of local self-government or the Republic, says this: a taxpayer under this law has the right to receive free information from the tax administration on tax rules resulting from his tax liability, then has the right to receive in writing an answer to a question which in such a form puts the tax administration into question concerning his tax situation, so he has the right to require that the tax administration and their officials treat him with respect and respect. You're saying that this is already regulated by Article 2a, which says: "This law applies to both the tax and the severance fees established under the law by the local self-government unit. In determining the collection and control of taxes and the parallel tax charges referred to in Article 1, as well as the application for the initiation of an infringement of the tax offences, the competent authority of the local self-government unit shall have the right and obligations that the tax administration has under this law." So, not from Article 24. You can interpret, you can say that this applies to Article 24, but the local self-government unit says – what do we care, we'll charge him when he asks for a notice from us. Is he going to start a administrative dispute? Is he going to press charges? It's not that simple. Even one law is interpreted, units of local self-government interpret it each in their own way. It's carried out every single one of them in its own way. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government cannot cope with various ways of bypassing and interpreting the law. You're not in charge of interpreting this on behalf of the units of local self-government. They'll interpret whatever they want. That is why it is necessary for the law to be clearly defined and precise that are not only obligations, but also taxpayers' rights, even when units of local self-government are at stake. If it remains as you have suggested these changes and additions to the taxpayer when it comes to local self-government, the unit of local self-government will be at the mercy or mercy of local self-government as it pleases.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43509	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Slobodan Maras submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 10a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Kenan Hajdarevic:
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43510	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP welcomed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and we tabled two amendments on the proposal of this law. The first amendment referred to Article 2. With this amendment, we wanted to create a legal basis so that local self-government units could resolve complaints about solutions to determine local public revenues. The second amendment concerns the addition of Article 10a, to which we wanted the decision-making process in cases where the obligation is determined on the basis of data on the facts relevant for the decision, without the presence of a person who is a taxpayer. The LDP also welcomes most of the provisions of this law, such as the provisions of Article 12 amending Article 70 of the basic law, which concerns the order of the amount paid, i.e. that this applies to the amount of the main tax liability, then the interest, and only then the cost of the charge. What the LDP is not satisfied with this bill refers to is that we expected a deeper and more comprehensive change of tax policy itself. For two years, LDP has been trying and all seems to help the government of the Republic of Serbia to solve economic problems that are only partly due to the financial market crisis in the world, and are largely due to unfinished or unstarted reforms in all sectors in which we are located. At the end of 2008, we proposed an economic programme – an agreement for the future, where we clearly defined what is needed to do in order to help Serbia overcome the economic crisis as easily as possible. Some of these measures were accepted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, though late, some not. Also, in May as a parliamentary group, we made a request to the government of the Republic of Serbia to hold an emergency session of the Assembly with the topic: an agreement on overcoming the difficult economic and social situation. We have lost an adequate response, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not want to discuss the subject here in the Republic of Serbia Assembly, although we have run for the agreement some solutions, among other things, and a 20% reduction in the income tax, allowing employers to save it in production, changes in the VAT collection system, i.e. to make VAT payments only when all obligations are paid. As I said, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not want to meet the LDP requirement. We think it's a top-notch step. What we expected from you, Madam Minister, when the debate was in principle, and we didn't get answers to the questions, are all the questions that Mr. Slobodan Maras asked you, and these questions, I will repeat, concern: what about changing the value added tax, i.e. that VAT collection is done after the payment of the claim; what about your proposal to reduce the income tax, or contributions; what about your opinion on the Dulic's law on aid in the construction industry, how it will affect the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or whether it will affect the deficit in the Republic of Serbia at all; when it will begin to prepare the budget for next year. Also, we are witnessing that economists are proposing a new model of economic growth, which means reducing the burden on labour and increasing taxes on consumption, which is somewhat in line with the statements you've been making. What is the momentum of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whether it will accept these proposals by economists or will accept what the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, has said. For us in the LDP, it is somewhat understandable to Article 14 of this bill, which refers to the possibility that those taxpayers with whom the reorganisation is conducted, in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy, should be granted to postpone payment of the tax debt in equal wars up to 60 months. But what I'm trying to say is that this is how you solve only one part of the company's problem. Here I have a request of over 200 owners of independent trades in the area of the Municipality of Priboj, and a similar situation is certain in other municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, which have a relatively large debt in terms of taxes and which require the possibility that those debts that have been paid for delayed payments or that something is done with health insurance, which is to go on a regular basis until a certain deadline, and after that deadline, or to write them off interest or to find the possibility of crediting. All of these are some problems that need to be solved systematically and, Madam Minister, you will always have support from LDP for all those measures that allow for the fundamental change in the economic model in which Serbia has functioned in previous years and for this policy and for those attitudes of yours you will always have support from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43511	Six minutes and five seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43512	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Madam Minister, all this is written in amendments and additions and in these arguments that you have rejected amendments is somehow not like the practice that we have when your laws come into assembly procedure, or debate. I don't know who wrote all this. Now, look here, you in this article are predicting no possibility, here defined, of postponing the payment of the tax debt after meeting the conditions laid down in Article 1 and 2 of this article are decided by a minister or a person who is authorised by him. Not to read any further. So, there's no possibility here, you're here or someone you're authorized to do it. Keep an eye on what it says. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that granting authority to a particular person to decide on the requirements for a postponement of taxes is not the obligation of the finance minister. And whose is it? So, in law, they say you're under your authority, you or someone else, and here they say it's not your authority. So the essence of the whole story, when it comes to this amendment, we mentioned it in the principle of debate, is that based on the habits and practices that are in tax policy in the country today, we really have a reasonable doubt that here and through these possibilities, there will be abuses, especially in those you trust to do so. Here, through this and through the next amendment, we insisted on trusting you, as minister, not you personally, the minister, or the mayor. Now, the mayor, you'll hear about it a little later, give authority to someone, and he basically cares about it under the Budget Implementation Act, etc. So there are many reasons, we mentioned them in the principle debate, for a single dose of mistrust. There's a lot going on. I'll give you the example I heard this morning. In the field of Vojvodina tax bonds, not on the territory of the entire autonomous province, in some cities and municipalities, you can check that and you need to check, tax rulings came up, people came up with solutions with the wrong current account. Those who are safe and responsible, so as not to pay interest to the state, settled the debt on time, and then after a few days, a new solution came to them with a second number and a notice that the current account was wrong, so the citizens are obliged to pay the tax, and the country will be the first one to collect the income on the basis of the tax to pay them back. My question is now – are the citizens obliged to do so, on the one hand? On the other hand, will their money that they gave and gave to the state for use be cashed, as would interest them on a possible delay in tax revenue? It will, but it'll be a while tomorrow. He knows Mr. Novakovic, as well as I do, well. He won't. So I'm telling you, there are really big problems in the functioning of both tax administrations and tax administrations, this tax procedure. I'm not saying there's no intention of making it better and changing. It seems to me that somehow because of the fact that the state has no money, that you lack money, that you can't patch up unreasonablely created holes in the budget, that you define yourself and decide on some mechanisms that only in perspective can cost you much more than will essentially bring you effects. Not to talk about what's going on at the level of local self-government, and here you're also opening up the possibility that mayors are empowering individual persons to bring in such discretionaryly whether someone is going to be released, or whether paying taxes will be postponed for a certain period of time or not. I also spoke in the principle debate. So you have examples of where people worked and functioned in accordance with the law, were co-workers, as it is called, and then because of the collapsing of one law and another, and because of the lack of awareness of those who work in tax administrations, they were put into a situation to pay some penalties for which they're not really required. They can't fight both the judicial authorities and the state authorities in the exercise of their rights. On the other hand, you have people who have openly robbed the state, for whom they have robbed the state and denied it VAT, as well as an ordinary layman and someone with a high economic school can establish it and establish it. Not only does the state have a motherly relationship with them, but it gives them the courage to sue the state and cause allegedly some suffering spiritual pain or damage to some of its compensation and income. You have to change that, but we don't think it's really the path you're trying through these changes and supplementing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43513	Three minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Vladan Jeremic has tabled this amendment in order to improve the work of all local self-government. I've got to start off with a start-up gene to explain to you, Madam Minister, what a unit of local self-government is. The Law on Local Elections defines a unit of local self-government, defined the administration or the kind of obligations it has in its jurisdiction of the city. The city has an obligation, even with this law, to the capital, to bring the units of local self-government closer or to regulate the work of organisational units in its city. The Belgrade city's statutes have decided that units of local self-government are being converted into town halls. There are 17 municipalities in Belgrade, and they do not have the status of a local self-government unit. This law, this proposal and this member refer exclusively to mayors and the president of the local self-government unit. So we all automatically agree that this does not apply to the city council in Belgrade and that the city of Belgrade and the president of municipalities in the city's municipalities will be unable to implement this member of the law. So, if we take into account this amendment, which suggests that there is no possibility of giving authority to another person, except for the president of the municipality, even if he was the president of the city's municipal assembly, it doesn't matter which of these 17 in the city of Belgrade, then we have a clear picture that the authority and responsibility for the job of postponing the debt of the taxpayers can't have anyone, except the president of the municipality. There is one version in which the city of Belgrade is often profiting, which is making decisions at the city's assembly sessions, in which the mayor makes one proposal, the decision is adopted, and it is conducted by automation by units of municipalities. That is how the proposal was made to provide premises for tax administrations in all local units or in all municipalities, so the congregations of municipalities were obliged to provide, on the basis of that decision, a tax office in their buildings and, more specifically, in their business space. The example will also come, that a decision will be taken in the Belgrade City Assembly, under which an authorised person will be able exclusively to be the head of finance for the city of Belgrade or head of finance for the city's municipality's unit, not the unit of local self-government. Then the mayor or president of the municipality will respect that decision to the extent that it is in favour of the individual, and to the extent that it does not contribute to the individual, if it is in favour of a party colleague or someone who has made a pretty large debt, then the possibility of delay will be given either by the mayor or by the president of the municipality. This is where we make the selection - will something be made through a decision and respected in the best way and whether something will be made through a decision and respected in a selective way? So, this amendment provides that there should be no selection, that the president of the municipality, that the mayor be strictly responsible for the postponement of any taxpayer's debt. If a competent staff member or head of the department is responsible for this, who will remain in the service and local self - government, and the congregation of the unit and the local self - government municipality, he will not have the responsibility of any other person other than injury to work and abuse of official office. When the president of the municipality or mayor commits abuse of official office, it is difficult to establish and punish that responsibility, and when an employee as head of department or head of department at the city level makes a failure of any kind, then the responsibility of that mayor and the president of the municipality immediately follows. So, in order not to be hit by employees in local self-government units, or in the units of city councils in Belgrade, the responsibility must be borne by the mayor himself and the president of the municipality, so it doesn't be so – you iron it out, I don't know go to the chief and see, so if he approves it, if he has had a good breakfast it will be right, if he hasn't had a good breakfast he won't be. And then someone will come to the president of the municipality and say - the chief didn't have a good breakfast, the president of the municipality will change the decision of the commissioner and he'll turn out great and brilliant, and the captain of the department of horns and like this because he didn't want to come out to meet a taxpayer whose debt is pretty big. I also have to tell you that it means a lot when you go into power distribution and delay your wars to pay off the debt you made. It means a lot, but it is personally responsible for the person who makes the decision, he writes a report, which is why he approved it. So, if we give other people a role to play in these things about taxpayers whom there is not much, if we assume that the units of local self-government took money only from buying apartments, loans and everything else, sales taxes, and that all administrations and everything else that happens, at least in the city of Belgrade, goes to the budget of the city of Belgrade, and not the municipalities, then you realize that this amendment is absolutely right. What is in this reasoning is proposed that the unit body of local self-government is responsible for deciding on a request to postpone the payment of the tax debt on the basis of original incomes, and here the original incomes are collected by the city, not by the city's assembly, local self-government, and local self-government is the city of Belgrade, not by the city's municipality, in which fiscal decentralisation is contributed. If in Belgrade, for example, the Sava Venac municipality is the largest home in the Balkans, there are three maternity homes, there are a circle of hospitals in which they are extracted from the home book of the deceased and from the birth certificate, if the municipality pays people to work and perform and people to keep complete records of who was born in these three hospitals, and all the income from taxes and taxis to that work goes to the city's assembly and does not go to the municipality, then it is not fiscal decentralisation. You have stated here, in the light of this amendment, that it is an improvement in fiscal decentralisation. The land was seized by municipalities and municipalities no longer have the right to operate even land in the city of Belgrade. In the city of Belgrade, the worst possible centralisation has been made, it all comes down to the mayor and his powers, his decisions. So is this. If the mayor is going to have the authority, then let him have the responsibility, not the mayor, to have the authority, and the responsibility to carry some other employees in local self-government units or in city councils. So, Madam Minister, I think I've tried to explain in the best possible way what a parallel is, firstly, in the Law on Local Self-Government, between city councils and local self-government units, which is stated in this law and secondly, which authority can abuse the mayor or president of the municipality, and what responsibility it can have. This is an example of fiscal decentralisation solving this problem more than illogically. I even gave you allegations that you can freely check and you will see that no city hall assembly in Belgrade has its own sources of income, because everything it earns goes into the city's budget, and the city's budget has the sole right to use the mayor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43515	Eight minutes and five seconds of MP time have been used. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43516	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, in part, continue this story which they started on the same member Mr. Dragan Stevanović and Milan Avramovic, by going back to the period since the beginning of this year and to your statement, Madam Minister. So that was January 2010, when you said: "The relevant tax system in Serbia is unfair because it protects the richest. We want to change it, and in this sense we have created an innovative property tax law." It's not this law. If you wanted to make it fairer, to deal with tycoons and those who abuse and thus do great damage to the country's fiscal policy, you would start from a progressive tax rate when it comes to property tax. Not only are these days an actual account in the company "Delta Holding" between Mrs Forcan and Miroslav Miskovic, but also because of our long-standing warnings, Serbian radicals, that Miroslav Miskovic, along with Milan Bek, Djindjic and other tycoons in Serbia, is the one who is privileged and who directly violates both the law, and the Constitution and abuses the state property and property of enterprises that have been brought to the brink of collapse or are in bankruptcy. So even a few days ago on one television, we could see a very detailed contribution to, say, in downtown Belgrade, Knez Mihail Street and Mr Miskovic, and Beko, Mr Djindjic and others using the business space of "Serbiatex" and other businesses that were destroyed, and workers remained on the street, the "Belgrade Robing Houses", we were already talking about how this privatisation happened. The business space they rent for only 10 euros per square metre in the centre of Belgrade, and that in their shopping centres, which they built according to privileged status, such as "Delta Siti", as well as the "Usje" Business Centre, Mr. Petar Matic, the same space costs for at least 55m euros to 70 euros. Tell me, please, where is justice then? As finance minister, I believe, Mrs Dragutinovic, and all of us Serbian radicals believe that you as Diana Dragutinovic may have intended to do so, but the tycoons do not allow you. Simply, you must not enter into the process of changing the tax code, especially when it comes to property tax and such tax rate that would be executed and graduated on the basis of the property of these taxpayers, and for this you also have a foothold in the Constitution, which is being violated and the Law on Local Self-Government is being violated by this Article 13. That's why Mr. Jeremic submitted the amendment proposal. I'll remind you of Article 91(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where you can, exactly, what our people would say, is that you rebate as well as Miskovic, and Beko, and Djukanovic and all the tycoons and mobsters who don't pay pension and social employees, because you yourself know that their employees, salesmen in these shops, receive from 15,000 to 20,000 dinars in exclusive thighs. Well, you, too, when you show up there, and every one of us, that's the first words those employees tell us. Article 91(2) says – the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is general and is based on the economic power of the obligor. Are these the economic powers and monopolies of this country? They did. Do they have huge capital and huge traffic? They're in the mood. How, then, is it possible that you should not allow them on the basis of their economic power to charge taxes and that the tax on property which is 2.5% on an annual level is the same for Miroslav Miskovic, on property that he has for the whole Delta city, as well as for some pensioner in Kragujevac who doesn't even live in the city center, and is the same uniform tax rate, but in some suburban settlement, where they don't have any water, or sewerage, etc.? Therefore, not only is it unfair, but this law, especially members and members of 13 who speak about the powers the minister can, which is also against the Ministry Act, to transfer to another person, as well as the mayor, or the president of the municipality, and therefore this intervention by Mr Jeremic. It is not possible under the Law on local self-government to postpone the enforcement of taxes, i.e. a solution which is given as an option to an ordinary local tycoon, with which he is in some kind of deal, arrangement, etc. Or he's the financeman of his political party, to transfer it to another person. Not on the deputy mayor, not on the head of the budget and finance board, say the town of Kragujevac. It's simply impossible under the Law of Local Self-Government, and you're now giving them that opportunity. And that you cited what faces they were, it was just before the informal remark of a colleague of Moma Markovic, who sits in front of me, that you even counted and said what faces they were, and you didn't even do it. Is that the helper person that works in the local self-government unit? Is that someone who works in the culture sector or anywhere? If you'd even said - Deputy Mayor and Chief of Administration, it's just not possible. According to the Law of Local Self-Government, Mrs Dragutinovic, the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor is a direct mandater for the implementation of the budget. Budget income, property tax is a direct income, from two or three years ago, a local self-government unit, and when it decides that this money will be spent from the budget, it is responsible for that. This takes off responsibility and, of course, violates the law and, worst of all, is very vague in the basics of this Article of the 73rd basic law, i.e. Article 13 of the amendment and the amendment. You know, it's widely understood and very secular in which the president of the municipality's situation, i.e. the mayor, can delay the execution of the tax settlement, i.e. the payment of taxes. I am going to finish this presentation with one question for you, so I hope that at the end of this debate you will answer it, but by telling you that I have received the answer to that question in official form from the then vice-president of the DOS government back in 2002, Vuk Obradovic, to my question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Will you please explain to me by what law accounts for a tight interest on unpaid taxes in a country of 0.02% per day, which is much higher than the escort rate of the NBS or the cost of living at the end of the year? When it's cumulatively calculated on, say, an unpaid tax of 100 dinars, it's far more than 24 and 25%, how much it's roughly, if I'm not mistaken, is it Mr. Buha, that escont rate of NBS or is changing, and maybe even smaller. In any case, it is a direct robbery of citizens, because according to the Bond Act, according to the old law of the SRJ, it is not possible and these are the biggest objections of citizens, because when a pensioner, unemployed, some young couple, people who have to pay the same tax rate as Miroslav Miskovic and other tycoons, when they come to the tax administration of local self-government units and complains about the solution to the property tax, the president of the municipality will not give him the possibility of postponing the tax, but will be charged to him by that interest, which I claim to be anti-constitutional and illegal because no law knows that rate of 0.02% per day. It's just that anything is possible these days. If such proposals are made as are coming from this country, Nikolic, this unfortunate man several days ago or already yesterday, that Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic today after the decision of the International Court of Justice, which we do not know what he will be, we will wait today, to gather representatives of parliamentary parties, which is not by any means constitutional authority of the President of the Republic, because these things and the foreign policy of the country are being spoken exclusively in parliament and determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then it's so normal for you to say -- the president of the municipality and the mayor can go to a third party there, who knows who, the secretary, as Mr. Buha says, to transfer the authority to delay the execution of the tax. What is not normal anywhere in democratically regulated states and in a country where the Constitution is respected is clearly here, but I believe that you still have a responsibility as an economist and as a woman who has not just accepted some role of puppet in the government of the Republic of Serbia and that you will try to fulfill this promise made from the beginning of the year, that the tax system in Serbia is changing, that it is fair for all citizens and that you start dealing with tycoons in this country. If you don't, the citizens will punish you in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43517	Ten minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Milorad Buh has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43518	This amendment suggests that a particular kind of bankruptcy called reorganisation is a special form of bankruptcy in which economic operators enter into life, and leaving a coma and creating preconditions for a new life for that economic operator needs a lot of air, a lot of energy to live, and among other things it is an obligation for the state authorities to help such an entity. Since we know that in practice yearly bankruptcy through the reorganisation comes out several dozen, it seems to me that in 2009 30 and something, last year 38 of the reorganisations we had, so it is a small number of reorganizations of this type of bankruptcy and the tasks of the republican authorities would be to help, especially the Republic of Serbia, to enable him to endure all that burden that he has in market conditions of engagement, so we moved that delay from 60 to 120 days. Unfortunately, you have failed to comply with this amendment of ours. No amendments have been accepted. We're used to it, but we're trying not only through the normative-legal addition of certain solutions, but also through economic-financial positions to help economic operators because they live in very difficult conditions. What is important to stress is that the current government that came just two years ago promised, and Mrs Dragutinovic you were one of the ministers in the government, and now you are a comprehensive tax reform. Two years have passed, and we haven't received any reform laws from this area. You promised to change the tax system and move on to progressive taxation. You promised to cut out for the employees. You promised certain corrections in VAT, etc. These are just naked promises, we objectively so far have not considered anything in this house from that area. It's tragic because we have huge problems in the area of economy. Our economy is over-indebted. I mentioned here last time, and I will again appeal to your ministry and the government to correct the VAT area, especially those of the importing business entities, which have to pay customs re-proportionals, pay VAT to that part of the value found by the tax authority. In addition, in the case of production, the economic operator pays VAT when carrying out the collection of certain of its sold products, by invoiced goods or services. So, we had one charge, second time the state takes VAT again. In addition, the economic operator must always settle all the material and immaterial costs, all the obligations arising from other legal provisions and there are gaps. This gap is problematic from the business aspect of the economic operator because it must bridge it through certain borrowings. Debts on business banks are huge. Interests are huge and this creates a business subject's inability to do normal business and make a profit. It's an anomaly since the introduction of VAT. Economic operators, the Chamber of Commerce, they all speak to you. You protected the country. The economic operator will pay, if he does not pay, then they are very strict penalties – of 800,000 dinars and upwards, and for the responsible person in this business or business. The state is protected. The state gets its income. How will it be at the competition, how will the economic operator manage? He was left alone to fight with all the alcoves of this world. We open the market, we cut customs, we build a legal system like this where the state just peels you off unless you pay for everything she's prescribed by the regulations, and then today we have about 60,000 blocked companies. Only this year went into bankruptcy 8,000, etc. It's about the really difficult position of our economy that you have to faint, because this economy can't take it anymore. Next year, we will welcome with far higher unemployment, a far greater number of economic operators who will be in a blockade and we will have a blockade of the entire tax system. Why? Because the economic operators who are blocked cannot settle their obligations. Now I'm going to give you some information, and you know it very well. The tax administration has blocked, at this point there are about 58,000 not only businesses but also other entities, the total aggregate rate of all blocked liabilities of these entities was around 250 or 260 billion at the end of the year. To date, it's over 300 billion. It's blocked. How can the state activate that 300 billion? Not at all. Who's thinking about it? Let's see if we can postpone their giving, resuscitate them, reorganize them, enable them to live, work, earn and pay their profits, taxes and contribute and help the state? You have applications from the Chamber of Commerce, and regional chambers of commerce, and the Republic Chamber of Commerce, and the Union of Employers and Trade Unions, etc., and you keep your mouth shut about it. You can't keep your mouth shut anymore. The economy doesn't allow that. The economy can't take it anymore. The Ministry can't come out of all this and say we're looking at ourselves, and the rest of you, get on with it. That's not how it works. Look, the whole world has come out with certain measurement programs. In America, they invested in banks, they invested in England, etc. He's investing in the economy. They buy stock, what was unimaginable 20 and 30 years ago. Today the entire system has been changed. Let's change our thinking once about our economy, our conditions of fiddling, the problems that this economy has, because we're going to lose. The President of the Republic said at a meeting a month ago that we had a lot of inappropriately wealthy people. It's supposed to be an alarm for the government, the Ministry of Finance and the IRS. But you don't listen to the president. If he realized what he said, it's probably true. If it is not true, then you should go out and say – no, our data, documents and facts say that we do not have the unseemly rich, all of them are decently rich, or all of them have acquired their capital in a legitimate way and are not the situations in which legal measures should be taken. However, if I may interpret it, and so did the general public, that more had burned down the President of the Republic, and he had to say that sentence, it should burn down all state services and say something now we have to do. The first to take action is the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the entire inspection structure of the state. What have you done now? Nothing. As with many other statements by senior civil servants, lower civil servants, etc. But you can't push this system long. It just falls. It's collapsing. Borrowing in this way, as it seems now, has no way out. Furthermore, you are all struggling to help export etc. Now I'm going to read you the 2009 export results, where we are. In 2009, Serbia is exporting nine billion dollars worth of goods, see, our neighbour, Bulgaria 16 billion, Croatia 37 billion, Slovakia 45 billion, the Czech Republic 106 billion, etc. Now let's see where we are after exporting per capita: Serbia $1,100, Macedonia 1,500, even Macedonia, Bulgaria 2,100, Croatia 8,300 etc., to Slovenia 11,500. Look, with a political non-pragmatic dictionary saying, we stand for, we stand for it, we stand for it, and so on. The State's activity must be behind this to provide funds, finance and preconditions for administrative, non-administrative and all other preconditions to help the export economy. There are no such activities. There is one association, one agency that helps exporters, but the assets of that agency are so small that we will not benefit from it. Mrs Dragutinovic, the task of your ministry is a comprehensive tax reform as soon as possible, progressive taxation, you must reduce taxes and contributions to earnings, VAT must not be touched, because this is an attack on the existing conditions of making the economy and it will be a hit on the pocket of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Neither the citizens have the opportunity to pay more than they pay today, nor the economy can bear the burden, because they will have to install in their product two, three or five percent of how much VAT you will increase. There's going to be a collapse. We've warned before and now we warn, and it's up to you to do what you should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43519	Total time was used for the authorised representative and minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group's time. MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43520	As part of what Mr. Buha suggested, we also in the SRS have a proposal to take a look at Mr. Professor's analysis. Raicevic, who is an expert in public finances from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, of 30. 5. In 2010, he too is now insisting on reducing VAT, especially on basic food and municipal needs. Also, it believes that the excise duties and above all, its focus and focus in this analysis is a constructive dividend of the capital owner. For the sake of Serbian citizens, we will say that it is precisely a phenomenon that the people my predecessors spoke of live in houses owned by companies, drive cars owned by companies, pay by the company card and Mr. Professor. Raicevic has just said that the state, more specifically the finance ministry, would have had to strike a constructive dividend or a phenomenon when personal costs are shown as company costs. If there was no anomaly or one kind of fraud, to use a slightly more free expression, it would not have happened that in Serbia the first largest monthly income is a certain flight controller from Voždovac, not Mr Miskovic, previously mentioned. Also, there is another very current example, although it needs more political and other courage for him, to see for example Hungary and, for example, the Hungarian Government, which cut off negotiations with the IMF a few days ago, because it considers that they are sufficiently taxed citizens, that the Hungarian enterprises are sufficiently taxed and that the financial foreign sector is now in line. banks in Hungary. Think about that possibility, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43521	Two minutes of MP time was used. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43522	Here, this is something about what I was saying at the beginning of Article 3 and, Madam Minister, it would be correct to say, if I were wrong, or that the Serbian Radical Party is wrong when it insists on the fact that local self-government does not have the ability to exercise property rights and you cannot empower the competent authority of local self-government to bring a solution to a certain immobility going into its own local self-government. I repeat, the Serbian Radical Party would like it to do so, and it would really help the functioning of local self-government, but it is not possible, because there are no other legal preconditions that would divide the property, which is the public property of the Republic of Serbia from the 2006 Constitution on the property of local self-government, autonomous provinces and the Republic of Serbia. After all, if we were right, your colleagues from G17 would not have submitted such a law to the congregation procedure. On the other hand, at the beginning of this year and right after that Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and these autonomous votes came from Vojvodina to seek property, or to be passed or proposed administration, that is, the laws governing the status of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, because under current laws we cannot do so, so that we are left with nothing but that, after the adoption of a law of this kind as you predicted, we are initiating a procedure for the examination of the constitutionality of the law. We're forced to do that and we'll do it unless you accept what we've been looking for through the amendments or you find someone else, whether a procedural solution or not, I don't know how to change this. You here in law suggest that the competent authority of the local self-government unit makes a solution that the immovableity transfers to the unit of local self-government. With the amendment, we asked the competent state authority, in this case it is the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, to make a solution that will make use of the property unit of local self-government. That's the only thing that's possible. So we are not at all contesting the right and obligation of local self-government to make revenue. After all, local self-government, their basic income is their property tax. If you analyse from January 1st to today the most stable in the income structure that income is on the property. Mr. Buha mentioned earlier, or Mr. Mirovic, I apologize, the excise duties are high and the revenues are bad with excise duties. That's what I assume you know. So this is not a bad intention, it's not a malignant thing and it's not based on the current laws that exist and which, unfortunately, have not been changed over time, but you have to solve this. I repeat again what I said, that you are forced to bend over in different ways, that you are looking for mechanisms to increase your income, simply, this is not a good way, but I said that the proceeds from the property are as much and as stable. You in the Government, Mrs Dragutinović, have a problem not so much with income, as you have with expenditures, and while in the structure of expenditure the dominant or in an unfavourable relationship are liquid and capital expenditure, there is no theory, there is no practice that has recognised the mechanisms that will cover the budget deficit, i.e. gaps in the budget. You do this as a man who understands public finances very well you know, but this is not the way and you will bring yourself into a legal nonsens at the moment or in the procedures of applying this law, which will produce perhaps some deeper, larger, wider, and I don't know what kind of problems. We're not saying there's no need to change the tax procedure and the tax administration. Much more effects would be here if we talked about fiscal responsibility or some other laws, which might help in terms of achieving that budgetary balance. Something like this is necessary, but you're doing it the wrong way. I really expect you, if for nothing else, then at least because of the stenogram, to tell me that I'm wrong, that the SRS has the wrong view of this and to explain to me and find the arguments that are the basis for this change and supplement.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43523	Three minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my esteemed colleague Krasic has submitted an amendment to Article 21, and it is more than obvious, Mr. Minister, that since you did not respond to Mr. Stevanovic, you do not know what to say and this is against the law. The SRS will launch certain steps, because without your explanation it is really pointless and will continue to participate in the debate. Mr. Stevanovic said the basic incomes of local self-government are property tax. I can tell you, I come from a municipality that was one of the first in its municipality to introduce a local tax inspection. We did it three years ago, and I can tell you that incomes have been significantly increased and that in some ways the work of local self-government itself has been enabled. What do you want with this law? You want, since you've abolished transfers to local self-government, to get them to provide their own income, even if it's against the law. We have warned you in good time what will happen, first of all in the AP Vojvodina, when a separatist statute has been adopted, and especially what will happen under the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. You've heard that tax returns have arrived with the wrong jury account, but simply, the taxpayers, who were correct, responsible, who wanted to pay, were given in an explanation that they had to pay again, and that part would be returned to them, and I'm telling you that they would not be paid back, but that they would try to subscribe to some other obligation they have, if they don't, it will remain that way, and they'll probably be reduced by that amount they've overpaid. But what's certainly certain is that they won't be charged interest on that money that was in the overpayment, how state authorities do and account for interest on taxpayers who won't be able to pay their dues in time. I have personally been to the Tax Administration in Odzac and I have watched many items, and above all for social and health insurance when it comes to our professional farmers. Believe that, say, the capital is 40-50 thousand dinars, and that interest is even up to 100,000 dinars. How does this state treat our citizens and our taxpayers? These are not green interest rates, these are bigger interest rates than these green banks you brought to Serbia. We in the SRS are convinced that all taxpayers, or citizens of Serbia, would settle their obligations to, that they were assured to work, to live from their work, to live normally, well, normally, and to pay taxes, taxes and everything else they should pay. You see, here we had the Trade Act on the agenda, we had a bill of amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act, a bill on amendments to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and this Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration. All these problems I've been telling you about, when it comes to the Statute of Vojvodina, have culminated in these amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We warned you in time what would happen, but you were forced to put it on the agenda now. It is clear, above all, that you were unable to cope with the province's administration and that you could not influence the province's MPs to fulfil their obligation and to decide by 1 April which function they would retain. I don't think this is the way a country should deal with it first. Mrs Dragutinovic, not you personally, but this government acts as if it does not live in Serbia. I would ask you to come down to the people a little bit, to see how citizens live, and not only by order you have from the EU and the European Commission, to adopt laws that will literally bring nothing to our citizens, but you are fulfilling certain conditions that are supposed to be closer to the EU, and it is increasingly clear, and be sure that it is clearer for our citizens, that there is nothing more than that. Our citizens just want to live off their work and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43525	Five minutes and 20 seconds were used time by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Krasic has asked for a speed-up of a procedure that reduces the deadline from 30 days to eight, with a view to a faster, more efficient and more stable transfer of the property of the taxpayer to the state. In this explanation where you listed some paraphrases, I can express myself so freely, we don't see the answer seriously why this amendment wasn't accepted. The essential adoption of this amendment law refers to the role of the new laws adopted, in particular for the Law on Violation, the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which states that jurisdiction for the conduct of the tax and criminal proceedings has been transposed to the tax administrations, to the Criminal Court in the first and/or Higher Infringements in the second degree. Then you make a proposal for the immovableities and movable things that have been transferred by a judicial solution to the property of the Republic, that the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, as the authority responsible for the record, take them over to the state. That deadline has been set for 30 days. Now, in order to take the immovableities of movable and immovable things in state property into the state, therefore, they take for themselves, you had in mind the process of participation of representatives of several resolute ministries and you suggest that this way and the procedure in things be governed by a special act of government. The Government's special act is not defined, there is no time limit when it will be adopted, but there is one note here: "It is also regulated when the tax administration's decision, which, in the possession of the Republic, carries on the immobilities, i.e. the moving things, becomes effective until the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. until the date of application of those sublegal acts that the Government will bring." What does that mean in translation? That we will discuss this law today, that this law will be passed, but that the sublaw of the Government will only be passed afterwards and that then the application of this law will be in force. Since there is no time limit when the government's sublaw act will be passed, as several delegation ministries are involved, the question is why this debate is being raised. Let's move on. It's called - '...' so that the Authority is responsible for the recording of immovableity and movable matters in the state property is obliged, in accordance with those sublegislative acts (which are not available) within 30 days until the date of their application, to take over the immovableness and movable matter in the state'. Why did Mr Krasic ask it to be eight days? First, so we don't have a time limit on sublegal acts that don't have a time obligation here. Secondly, in order to know more quickly what is state property, what has been taken away. Thirdly, if jurisdiction has been passed under the Law on Infringements to Courts, as we have said, the Tax and Infringement Procedure from the Tax Administration to the Infringement Court in the first, or the Supreme Court in the second degree. Are you saying that these two degrees, first and second, are unable to perform any new property registration within eight days or are you saying that they are unable to bring an eight-day spell to a solution on any basis? If jurisdiction under this law has already been taken over, the law states what these courts are and what they are taking on, you claim they are not capable of making any decisions within 30 days, refusing this amendment. I may have misunderstood this, I may get an answer that will explain this, but if you transferred jurisdiction from the IRS under the IRS and by the Courts' Law, then you have demoted the courts in this case. You said it wasn't enough for eight days, it took you 30 days, a month to come up with one solution. I'll remind you that in some laws, the court is required to act within 24 hours. In some laws, say the Law on Local Elections, the court is obliged to react within 48 hours and that these deadlines, also legally framed, are not respected when it comes to Article 47. The law on local elections and that the court did not act as it was meant to act in accordance with the law. We ask the question whether the court will react in accordance with the sublaw of the Government, if it has not responded in accordance with the law? I purposely made one parallel because it's a matter of time limits. Mr Krasic thinks, and we all agree, that it does not take more than eight days for any solution to any court in order for the court to play a serious court. If you think that a 30-day deadline is enough to just bring in a sublaw act of the Government or of all certain ministries, which is yet to regulate how property will be transferred and how property will be adopted and turned into state property, then we are asking whether this law should be in the process today? I suggest you adopt this amendment because it obliges the first court, and the second tax administration to work more efficiently and to obtain property more efficiently than the taxpayers who were unable to carry out their obligations. In case you have one simple conclusion in which you all make it clear that you don't care about property or that you're not in a hurry to fill your budget, and then we have laws that conflict with your opinion, in which everything is done just to fill the budget. Make some parallel between these laws, since everything goes from the government, from the same cabinet of prime ministers, and see if you're all looking to fill the budget, make it harder for the administration or make it easier, and then simplify things through these examples and solve problems in eight days that can be solved in six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43527	Six minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment refers to the limitation of the right to tax and in the light of this law, in fact, and you have no reason to increase this deadline proposed by law. So far, obsolescence has meant three years. You're proposing this bill for five years. We believe, in the SNS, that if three years were not enough for the tax administration to collect some tax, it will be very difficult for them to succeed in five years, because already after three years, with these green interest rates, this debt has grown significantly and it is obvious that those who have not been able to pay the backlog of the tax will not be able to do so in the next period. Besides, really whenever the state is in a difficult situation, whenever the economy is in a difficult situation, somehow things are always transferred to entrepreneurs, to the economy. When it comes to the government's responsibility, be silent and demand an explanation in the global economic crisis. Didn't this world economic crisis, first of all, hit the entrepreneurs, hit the private sector? Isn't that why some 150,000 jobs were lost in the previous year, and it's mostly the STRIs, so entrepreneurs, small firms, people who are very often starting this job out of the inability to provide themselves with any job? So they're forced into private entrepreneurship. A good part of them wouldn't even come in. Isn't today the fact that we don't have production, that the manufacturing sector is extremely thin, that most of our business is in fact in services and that competition, the drop in demand, the fall in the purchasing power of citizens primarily affects the state of business and the effects of this small and small enterprise? That's not what they're responsible for. First of all, this government is responsible for this because it did not start with tax reforms, because the expenditures of this country, this society, are too high in terms of the opportunities of the economy, or the opportunities of the citizens. Well, this proposal itself is contrary to someone, Madam Minister, to your own personal entanglement, meaning not to tax work, but to tax, first of all, consumption. Isn't this a deviation from those principles? Isn't this an attempt to literally drain out of the dry drain any money in the government register, from those people who are already in a very difficult situation, by the very fact that they had to close their shop. Almost certainly the vast majority of them are working because they can't survive on the market, not because they're doing it out of obstetrics, because they've often started this job because they didn't have an alternative, so it means that they're going over their backs and the poverty, these people who've been released in some way from society and convicted, just because they didn't succeed in private entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, we don't have this entrepreneurial culture and we don't have a country and society that supports entrepreneurship, because in Europe every successful businessman has managed to become mostly from the third time, at least that's what statistics say. On behalf of all of them, we have submitted this amendment. On behalf of hundreds of my Jagodinians who during the previous year, because of this economic crisis, also had to close their small, small enterprises, to fire dozens, hundreds of workers, we have submitted this amendment and we believe that this proposal has really gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43529	Two minutes and 10 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state is finding ways to protect its interests by getting out of a bit of a legal system that has long existed in the Republic of Serbia. The tax claim is a claim like any other, the only thing that is the head of Serbia's claim. With this Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, we want some other legal solutions to avoid, that is, that is, what we do not fit in other laws that regulate similar matter, just for taxes to be transferred to this law. To be clear, there is a law on bond relations that says claims between economic operators become obsolete for three years. There's more there, so for the citizens for 10 years, even though the general period of limitations is 10 years. So the current law is in accordance with the Law on Liabilities. We now want to extend that deadline. I understand the proposal's wish. He says that by the time the billing deadline runs out, it's time to sign off, but I can't understand what he's done so far, so we don't get into this situation to write off a tax claim. Madam Minister, the tax inspectors have been expelled from the system of employees in the authorities of the state administration when it comes to their salaries. So they're out of that law, they have bigger salaries than the rest of them who are employed by the authorities of the state administration. Now I ask you a question - if the justification for these salaries is that they work faster, more efficiently, to charge faster and easier the tax claims that tax bonds have on them, then why are we changing the law and extending those deadlines? By extending those deadlines, we are in a certain way giving a message to the tax inspectors that they don't have to rush to their jobs. We give a message to the taxpayers that in five years, anything can happen, a legal entity and disappears from the face of the earth, it's very easy to shut down a company, if it can't legally be enough to die a current account, and that's where the story ends. A second company is opening up, so we're going to be working again, creating some obligations, etc., and all because tax inspectors are convinced they have five years to collect some tax claims. You often call when you refuse amendments that some of the solutions proposed in the amendment are contrary to some other laws. If we want to regulate Serbian legislation on one general level, then neither the tax administration nor the tax procedure can come out of these frameworks. This way, as you say when you reject amendments, legal uncertainty is created. Well, you're creating it. I don't mind, let it be five, but then let's get out of the Bond Relations Act for business entities to say - five years is a year and then bring one system of legislation into line, not from case to case, and only when it's in the interest of the state. The question is, are these solutions really in the interest of the state, because then you can't justify the high wages that tax inspectors and perpetrators have? You give them the right not to work quickly and efficiently, and we give them higher wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43531	Two minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43532	Ladies and gentlemen, here's an example of the situation I was talking about in my previous presentation. The amendment is not accepted because the minimum amounts of fines for tax infringements of legal persons and entrepreneurs with the Law on Infringements are agreed. So you only apply other legal solutions when it suits you. In the light of Article 27, you are called upon that the limitation deadlines applicable to the Code of Infringements do not apply to the Law on Infringements which are in the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. I agree, there is one provision in the Law of Infractions that tax regulations and misdemeanors can be regulated by another law. Now we ask the question why don't we once round our legal system into one legal continent. What is most eyed is not only a high penalty, but an extremely wrong attitude of the state towards economic operators, especially when it comes to legal persons and entrepreneurs. The range of penalties between legal persons and entrepreneurs is high. I asked a question, I haven't got an answer yet, let someone tell me what the difference is, except for the status, so other than what it says in the registration between one entrepreneur and a legal person regarding his responsibility for the tax offense? She's gone. They're exactly the same. Often, the entrepreneur is financially better off than small and medium-sized enterprises. Then why define only for legal persons, whether small, medium or large, huge penalties? You, as finance minister, should already do so once, at least in this Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, as Minister in the Government, start and separate the criminal policy between small enterprises, medium and large enterprises and entrepreneurs. So we can say that the rules for all are the same. Because, of course, the weight of the work done by a large company, or a large legal entity, is certainly much greater than an entrepreneur or a small legal person can do, but they pay the same penalty. A distinction in the payment of fines is sufficient because an entrepreneur pays only one fine, and a legal person pays a fine and a responsible person in a legal person. That's where it's supposed to stop. It's the only thing that needs to separate a little legal person and an entrepreneur. All this is left is that we will have the largest number of enterprises in the territory of the Republic, and small legal entities are the largest number of enterprises, Draconically to punish, often with high penalties, to put them in a position to stop doing their job. Somebody tell me how many people here know what it's like to make a hundred thousand dinars on the market today, not on government salary? Somebody tell me that. Let him tell me how much he's gonna have to work to make 100,000 dinars, what's the minimum penalty? And that small legal entity or small company usually has two or three employees and the entire payment fund for one month amounts to 100,000 dinars. All because we have to comply with the Law of Infractions. It seems to me that if we really want something to be done better in the country, that the state has a safe and stable source of income through the giving of taxpayers, we must first protect taxpayers from these penalties. Just imagine if someone were to report a tax, pay 10,000 dinars, and there's no money in their current account to make that tax bill, they'll pay a fine of 100,000 dinars. So much for that. That's what it looks like when one of these sensitive substances is driven out of the office, not out of the field, to see the real pain of all those who participate in the economy and to find out about all their problems. If the government had a little more hearing about all this, I'm sure our legal solutions would be much better, and the financial situation in the country would be more stable.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43533	Three minutes and 25 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we listen to these problems we have, and they are related to changes and additions to this law. I don't think anyone has brought up some very important things, and it concerns these very tax administrations and introduced us, primarily citizens, to the state of the tax administration, both in terms of organisation and functioning, incompetence that borders on inadequacy. This process goes back years, began intensively in 2004. When, systematically and in various ways, they were expelled from the tax administration or left themselves capable and professional personnel, we have to admit that, and the people who have no tax experience came. The result of all this is that the tax administration is currently unable to meet the challenges of the severe economic crisis, and the consequences are essentially bad tax and tax returns. After this permanent "cadrovska refurbishment", for example, the establishment of a centre for large-scale taxpayers in Belgrade, the CVPO, where the largest taxpayers were removed, for which there was no reason, no need, because it would be easier to control the payment. What if we all do the same law and uniform procedures? There's only a question. In fact, it's a centre for protecting the largest large capitalists, because they don't tolerate control and they're untouchable, and it was probably their request to privatise them. There are indications that they don't control themselves at all or rarely, and that's particularly interesting when we talk about their profits. The new taxation system, the introduction of VAT, initially divided all branches into VAT and non-VAT in terms of administration of control and collection, making communication with taxpayers more difficult for no reason, with easier control and payment. Why all this when all our inspectors, those who were found then, by changing the law, mean investigators of the tax administration trained for these jobs and working under the same law? Then, transfer of jurisdiction, i.e. forming a local tax administration is a mistake. I will give you an example from the municipality from which I come, where, at a time before the adoption of this tax law, I have spoken on several occasions in the Assembly, in the municipality was close to 75%, and the average of Vojvodina was not a full 35 percent. So there was a professional and trained administration who did a very good job as a republican authority. Now we have big problems, because these changes were done in a hurry and some people came in who aren't really good at it. So, the transfer of these powers is, in fact, the weakening of the functions of the tax administration, because instead of taxing the administration itself and better organises to determine and charge local public revenues, it transfers them to municipalities and, instead of decentralisation of income, we have decentralisation of jobs, quasi-local tax administrations, we confuse citizens, we make it difficult for ourselves to work and control, future electronic integration without data and various programmes, Lyra, etc., many municipalities are confused, and above all the citizens of Serbia, because nothing is clear to them now. By forming a new network of courts in Serbia, we think tax administrations have been removed and tax-infringed. Are the misdemeanors trained and willing to conduct such acts, when we have already had something that has been stalked? The development and computer support sector is without professional people and does not work in the right way that creates criminal problems for them in the work of the tax administration. In fact, it all started with the introduction of the 2003 DIS programme, software support for recording tax administration databases, with the parallel functioning of Pupin's programme, which are not completed because of the decisions of professional people. The result is the delay in tax final accounts, incorrect situation on analytical cards, untimely tax cuts, unnecessary centralisation, introduction of certain tax obligations, such as agricultural tax and farmers' contributions, etc. In addition, there is a poor labour strategy and planning in the area of tax payers control, which is professionally untrained and few, resulting in relatively rare controls, I repeat, rare control of taxpayers, who can certainly extract models of their behaviour leading to tax evasion. Instead, the accent should be placed on regular ones, i.e. more frequent control of various methods that are generally known and that we skip and avoid. In the area of payment of the same, instead of exhausting ourselves by chasing the collection of old debts which, by the way, should be settled by some legal provisions, all forces should be engaged in the collection of current debts for the financial year, and we do not. Amendments to the law, i.e. The work of the Agency for Business Registers could have prevented the avoidance of payment of obligations to those bonds, i.e. founders and associated persons who continue to work as well as the introduction of a new deposit, or by laying down assets for the settlement of the potential tax debt. Everyone here, and many people who don't do this job, know that these are known methods of avoiding tax charges, opening up other businesses, etc., but it suits someone, and it's only very easy to prevent if they want to, if they're in a good mood. There's a lot more to be said, I don't know how much time I have, but somebody else is probably gonna answer. All of this needs to be reviewed at the end and changed and it would be a real reform of the tax administration and far better budgeting at all levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43535	Seven minutes used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43536	Exactly what counterpart Skrbic said I will continue, which is that the problems in the tax administration are acute, they also refer to the motivation of workers, because the profits of these workers are very small. The middle expert prepares twenty thousand, a senior expert prepares about thirty, about thirty-five, etc. That's why we lost the high, high-quality and professional workforce that went to some other institutions, the other ones who had to stay, who had no motive to work, have no motive to go out and do those jobs they had a solution for, and that's why they get profits like this. The tax administration in its 2009 report says that direct control has found that there are many goods on the black market, there are many services and tax evasions that they have established directly control are moving slightly over 42 billion dinars. If we take this number and compare it to the data on charges by the criminal penalties that were imposed, then we see that only a fraction of what was determined by tax evasion at the end and charged. We know that our tax system is complex, we know that our tax system is bureaucratized, there's a lot of administration, there's a lot of inability for inspectors on the spot to establish a violation and record it as such in the record, and then it's later in court proceedings and charges, and as far as the goods found illegally in places where it's not allowed, and the systems of fines that have been very small so far. These are fines that are much bigger, I don't think they're going to be able to charge this right now. I think we'll get on the black market far more goods and services than it is right now. What the current government doesn't want to see, what it hides, what is evident, is that the black market is growing year after year. Participation in the gross social product has increased to about 30% since 2008, when there was about 12%. A dozen billion are expected to be goods and services, products on the black market, representing 30% of the gross social product, and that is an alarming situation, if compared to the EU, where 5% to 6% of the goods and services are on the black markets. For highly developed countries this percentage of 5 to 6% is alarming, for us 30% is not alarming. It is possible that this law is due to the fact that we are dealing with these people who are dealing with this, but surely these people do not have the means to pay these money amounts and surely the state will not benefit much from it. According to the 2009 tax administration, 15,144 criminal charges and 1,992 criminal charges were filed for perpetrators of violations from various areas by the tax inspection. It would be fortunate for this tax procedure to end as soon as possible, to charge it, to get into the register, and thus to improve the lack of tax and contribution to the budget, to reduce this deficit that we have in the budget. If the fact is that we have 30 percent of GDP on the black market, if at some average rate, not 18%, not 8%, but 13% of that, we're covering the budget deficit exactly. Here, Mrs Dragutinović, you as finance minister, as well as a good theorist and a good practitioner, have the opportunity to bring through the corrections, the comprehensive tax reform, through the reduction, through the creation of conditions to introduce these people who trade in the black market today into the factory hall to work, to introduce them into normal trade flows and to normally pay their taxes and contributions. You must be worried about this information that we on the black market have so many goods that are tax-free. Unfortunately, there are many items of food character, where health and hygiene conditions are very strict and these goods are sold in various markets, in various squares, in the streets, etc. That's what he's hiding. That's why you're worried. These products are used by our children, old and powerless and often have various negative phenomena. It's all the result of not taking action. What the SRS is, if this government is to say that the government is socially responsible, then it has to balance its obligations, because it can't in our system where they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43537	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. The 41st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the Edip Sheriffs. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) National MP of the Eedipus Sheriffs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43538	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, dear Minister, I will try to be brief. This amendment is very simple and has multiple significance for the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, especially the city of Belgrade, which is the largest local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. It is simply a matter of resolving the debt that taxpayers have towards the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the most meaningful way to eliminate the debt in this year and introduce more than 300,000 taxpayers who owe something to the Republic of Serbia into a normal system. According to a record the city of Belgrade and the tax administration of the city of Belgrade, about 300,000 taxpayers in the past three years have come to owe more than 23 billion dinars to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of that, the main debt is about 14 billion dinars, and the interest has already reached nine billion dinars. What is a debt structure is very important that about 200,000 people owe a tax on the property of natural and legal persons. Also, there is a debt to compensation for the use of construction land and the local municipal tax charged by the city of Belgrade. What's worrying, of the entire debt of around 24 billion dinars, is that the debt structure is such that 55% of this debt is the principal, and 45% are the interest that grew in the previous period. Given this difficult situation in which the country is affected by the global economic crisis, the city of Belgrade and local self-government, ours thinks that most of these people are unable to settle this debt in full because interest in some cases has even increased this capital. With this amendment, we are asking respected Minister Dragutinovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to allow those units of local self-government to create a legal basis by this law that units of local self-government can write off the interest these people made over the past three years on this basic debt. This will create a legal basis to settle the principal of the debt in this year, which would give rise to conditions for these 300,000 taxpayers to settle their current obligations more neatly. What's the point of the whole story? If the interest is written off, we believe that almost 90% of these debtors, and I have mentioned that there are about 300,000 of them, will reconcile the commitments it has to the Republic of Serbia's budget and that in the case of the Republic of Serbia, it will merge between 10 and 13 billion dinars, which is, bear in mind the crisis and everything else, around 130m euros, and that these 250 to 270 000 taxpayers this year will regularly pay their commitments, i.e. to be reintroduced into the system. In addition to this effect, we believe that there will be an effect on both legal persons and entrepreneurs, as a fiscal discharge will be created to allow the development of economy and entrepreneurship in local self-government. We believe that this is of multiple importance for both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government, not only for the city of Belgrade, to enable one such thing in this law, and I hope that, although the Government has rejected this amendment, the minister will respect the arguments that I have made here today and that the amendment will become an integral part of the law, and yet we will allow the inflow, you will agree, large funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43539	A minute and 40 seconds of MP time has been used. The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43540	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I will try to combine the acceptance of the last amendment with my final word. My associates have been very opposed to accepting this amendment, and I've really been having second thoughts for a long time. I don't think I agree with him personally, but this amendment insists on a large number of local self-government representatives. So far, 40 similar demands have come to the Ministry of Finance. So already 40-ac requires the same content, different municipalities, regardless of who is the president of the municipality or mayor. The alternative is blockades and possibly even bigger problems of local self-government. If it were a normal situation, I'd say no and listen to my associates. In the current conditions, when I also personally believe that, apart from investment in infrastructure, the only fiscal incentives that really make sense are those that will preserve jobs, I have decided to accept this amendment. Someone said, and they can say after accepting this amendment, that I put regular salaries in the same basket and those who don't, but I really think that the tax administration is also someone who needs to balance between coercion and service, to combine a stick and carrot, so make this a carrot, and all for better public income and better tax administration. This is how I'd end my exposure. I would refer very briefly to what made the most impression on me during your discussion. So, as usual, there have been a lot of criticism, but what has definitely surprised me, there have been some commendations, even of the opposition MPs, especially when it comes to two members, or two changes, not in this issue and not among all MPs. What kind of payment order would be, or what future penalty rate would be, almost everyone had a unique attitude. In the hope that the laws I plan for the first autumn session will come to an even greater acceptance and opposition, and of course also positions, I thank you all for an open, fair and often very friendly discussion. In the end, I'd say there were a lot of questions that had nothing to do with the subject. Unfortunately, MPs who ask such questions are no longer in this room, but I am very prepared to answer all questions tomorrow, by the end of next week, with and without cameras, all MPs. Thank you again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-22-0.u43541	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want another final word, since she has already done so? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and pursuant to Article 85(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, July 28th, 2010, starting at 12:00 p.m., as the Day of Vote on all agenda points of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to get information on the appointment of a session for Tuesday, July 27th, at 10.00 p.m., a session of the Fifth Extraordinary Session, the content of which is a decision on elections, decisions on the election of judges for the first time, decisions on the election of the National Bank Governor's Council president and the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Thank you.
