ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46213	Serbs in KIM are due to go to the polls, a logical response from the state and state institutions. [[Disabled microphone.]] As for the Serbs at KIM, we who live, the vast majority so far have boycotted almost all elections, regardless of the state's attitude and its institutions, because we knew that nothing good would bring us and did not bring us. We were right, nothing good. Unfortunately, today, there was fear in us about the election at KIM, which was called by the false state...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46214	People's MP, I apologize for interrupting, it's not up to you or me. The information is that what you're saying is probably not heard in direct television transmission. With my apology that the MP's unit is not working, I'd like you to re-apply and please repeat some of your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46215	Since it's an important topic I'm going to have to repeat everything I've said so far, it's precisely the inevitable theme of the election day at KIM. The subject inevitable, and the question remains the same. It is logical and over-needed to answer this question to the state and state institutions. As for the Serbs who live on KIM, the vast majority of the election has boycotted almost all the elections, regardless of the state and its institutions' attitude, because we knew that nothing good would do us. We were right, never good, and about a better life, no way. Unfortunately, fear and panic over the KIM elections, which have been called by the false state of Kosovo, have grown to us today. An even greater fear and panic is that we do not have an official and clear view of the state of the Republic of Serbia on this issue. The opposition parties have already expressed their views and, apart from LDP, they are mainly against the upcoming elections of Serbs. Unlike the opposition, the parties in power did not express their views. The only SPO has called on Serbs in Kosovo to go to the polls. The parties did not declare themselves, but the parties did and it is noticeable that there is no unity in the parties, let alone in the coalition. Here's how. Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic said he found it difficult to imagine the government making a decision on calling for Serbs to go to the polls. On the other hand, the party's official and political council president Dragoljub Micunovic said Serbs in Kosovo should not boycott the election there. Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic says there are no conditions for the government to invite Serbs to the elections. A senior official of the same party takes his view that it is best for Kosovo Serbs to have their legitimate political representatives and thus they will have their legitimate political representatives in order to achieve their interests and thus ensure a better life. Gentlemen, how is it possible for Serbs in Kosovo to have legitimate representatives in illegally declared Kosovo? How do you expect Serbs to have a better life in illegally declared independent Kosovo? Where are you going? Who are you leaving us to? Have you already made a political decision that we remain to live in an independent state of Kosovo? Bless us for such a decision of ours. As announced, the government will make a decision that conditions for elections have not been met and calls on Serbs not to go out on them. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why did you not make your decision immediately after the vote was called, but you're already making it the day before the deadline for handing over the list? Don't you think she's late? What's the reason for the late decision? These elections differ greatly from all those so far, as I noted that they were called by an illegal fake state of Kosovo. That's why the Serbs who live in KIM, I call on you not to be deceived and mass boycott the election, as you have so far. By going to the elections, we recognise Kosovo's independence and give legitimacy to the fake state of Kosovo, because it has called and conducted false elections. I am deeply convinced that we are not in the interest of living in an independent Kosovo. The only legitimate elections are those called by the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46216	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, back a few months ago, I have been calling here for Roma problems in Zemun, the Grmeč settlement, where some seven families have been without electricity for some years. And this time I appeal to the institutions of the system to make it possible for the citizens of the Roma, they are citizens of this Serbia, we have no other state. We have brought here in parliament a series of laws that are historic for the advancement and stabilisation of the Roma people, however, in local self-government it is slow to go. I don't want to talk about it right now, but I'm just giving you information that there was supposed to be a car closure. I asked not to do so, if we must still have a democratic dialogue and understanding. On Thursday, Roma set up a big rally on the part where they have no electricity. I'll be there. Someone from the media will probably come, but I appeal and ask that citizens be allowed what they have right. They have houses. They turned in for legalization there. They have their household numbers and there is no reason not to allow them to connect to the electricity they will pay as other citizens, but so far it has not been done. Here, once again, I appeal for something more radical to be done, to enable citizens to have their rights, and that is the right to have electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46218	The word has an MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first Madam Chairman, to inform you that the questions I asked after all those events about October 10th, the gay parade, and then after that for events in Genoa, the Ministry of Sports have referred to a simple question as to when they will release the law on sports in the procedure, here, until this moment I have not received an answer. I guess that's the most important thing, the first act for that ministry should be years ago. I have not received an answer to that simple question, whether it is in preparation, or whether it will be in the process while this minister is a minister, so I would ask you as a Assembly to act in a way that the Ministry fulfils its obligations to the National Assembly. On the other hand, the question I'm about to ask now, I won't be the first to ask, I remind you that one president of the parliamentary group has asked a similar question since December 2007, nothing has changed since then until today. According to their statements, the government of the Republic of Serbia is a priority in policy implementation, in fact, European integration. So we see that the priority is not to pay the bill, but as we hear it, constantly, daily repetition, European integration. It has been promised by this government that this year we will be candidates to join the EU, that we will get candidate status, but that has not happened. Obviously, it's not gonna be on the agenda for another year. One of the biggest reasons for that, i.e. The biggest reason we're not candidates is of course co-operation with The Hague tribunal. My question is, and lately and according to the statements it makes, that is why I have brought such a judgment on him, my opinion on this man -- while the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia and of course this home, which chooses a man in that position, will suffer unworthy and incompetent to perform that function, Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic, who is obviously unable to do what is necessary to continue co-operation with The Hague tribunal. A man who now found Serbia in trouble again, when the Dutch parliament discussed it again, the same days with foreign media and domestic media, began to complain and complain that he was guilty, because by now he had not arrested Ratko Mladic, someone who was BIA director in 2005, and at the same time was prosecutor? So it's all his fault and now, in 2010, Rade Bulatovic. For now, it is his former authority again, and he who has not been on the coat of arms of Radet Bulatovic for two years has done nothing. That's why I think he's unworthy. He's incompetent. We also have the case of Jurisic. He was held in custody for two years. This is where we discussed whether it took an eight or 30-day detention to get the investigative authorities to do their job. One man was held in custody for two years to be released by the court because the incompetent Vukcevic did not collect enough evidence, and then we listened to his deputy, Bruno Vekaric, in a crying voice, explain how difficult it was to collect the necessary evidence. A colleague Krasic may be right when he says it might just seem to me, but in any case, the evidence is not collected and the prosecution has not done its job. A man who complains to everyone that someone else was guilty of something he did four years ago, and he was nothing like a prosecutor in that place then said at that moment. Why didn't he talk in 2006, but he was waiting for 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46220	The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46221	My colleagues and colleagues, today Montenegro will become an official candidate for EU member and I hope that the government will have the strength when it happens to congratulate them, and we will not be there for at least a year. We'll get a report today on Serbia. It will certainly be that the most important thing for our candidacy is the completion of co-operation with The Hague. A colleague of the Shormaz is insinuated by some of the things that are going public these days, who hid Mladic in 2002, 2003, etc. Let's get back to what's on the subject. Whether those who were hiding the Mladic will answer, that is what the judiciary will say. What is more important for Mladic is that he is arrested and extradited to The Hague. I don't think letting go of that information can be a substitute for arresting and handing over Mladic. What I am interested in and asking the Minister of Defence and the President of the Republic, in that order – when Mladic was retired, until when he had the right to be in military facilities, and since he no longer had the right to be in military facilities, because then, after retirement, I assume those who kept him committed crimes? We can assume that until then it's been a crime, because there's been an indictment, but I really think we should take the veils off our immediate past. I don't see it making sense for a secret to be something that belongs to a pre-existing state. That's why I was talking and asking for the seal of state secrets to finally be removed from the number of deaths in NATO bombings, how many people died, how many civilians, how many police officers, how many soldiers, etc.? Here we are looking for an answer to the question when General Mladic retired and who retired? How much pension he has, Mr. Todorovic, you may be interested in, we are interested in facts that have been hidden from the public so far, and there is no reason to hide because his personal file is in The Hague and it all says there. So whoever needs to know -- he knows it, and the citizens of Serbia don't know it. The defence minister and the president of the state, as top commanders, should tell us – when General Mladic retired and who retired him? I expect the shortest period, and certainly within 15 days a clear answer to this question. Let the judicial authorities do their job. It is a practice to every two years find out where Mladic was two years ago. Now we find out where he was in 2006, 2007. In 2012, we will find out where he is today as we speak, but we will not become a candidate for full EU membership. Let's open this story, and let's start with when he's retired, and who retired him?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46222	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46223	I am also using this institution to enable the Rules of Procedure to ask one question and to ask the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government to ask Mr Milan Markovic – how is it possible that the state body, whose head is it, has a different attitude depending on who makes up the congregation majority in a particular municipality in RS territory? Namely, the newly created majority in the Kosovo Mitrovica Municipality Assembly and after the emergency, cannot obtain consent from the minister in charge of making the stamp, which is required by law by the ministry, and the conclusion, the only one that I can make, out of failure and failure to agree on, is that the newly created majority in which the SNS is a deciding factor is not at the will of the minister. Is it possible that in the state of Serbia, which predicates on the European path and achieves European standards, we have such a difference of conduct that what the minister is obliged to do in a three-day period in response to a request for consent for the content and appearance of the seals, and was obliged to do so by 4 November this year. As an MP for the SNS parliamentary club "Forward Serbia" on November 9th, I have to intervene in accordance with an institute that allows the Rules of Procedure to enable Kosovo's assembly majority to operate legally and act? That there is a double archival proves the material that I will submit to you, Madam Chairman, after this question, by asking you to forward to Mr Markovic, because perhaps on the way to him this material has been sent from the "Official List" of the Municipality of Kosovo Mitrovica, through the "Official Messenger" in which it was legally published the preceding seal invalid, to a letter which was submitted to the report from the Other Regular Sessions of SO Kosovo Mitrovica and all other documents which were responsible by the authorities which the law of this country and this assembly had been adopted, and the majority of Kosovo Mitrovica applied and wrote letters neatly to all these bodies. That there is a difference in treatment is also the document that the same ministry, headed by Mr. Milan Markovic, gave consent, and here I show the Serbian public a solution to which the previous assembly majority, who was at the will of the minister I speak, issued such consent and allowed treatment, and today, when representatives of the majority of them were legally replaced, took the seals with them, are simply not allowed to work by the act of not issuing that solution. To make the shame even bigger, there is some oral notification that authorized persons refer to the KIM Ministry. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, Serbia's citizens feel enough like pingpong balls to walk between two corporals of shared jurisdiction, in which they feel trapped in the illegality that is being conducted in this country. Perhaps the jailer is pleased to rule over those over whom he is in charge. Perhaps the supreme ruler in this country is pleased to rule the citizens in this way, but for the government to last – the pleasure must be mutual and it must be humane. In this case, the ministry is obliged to act not only humanly and justly, but primarily legally and to appeal from this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46224	The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46225	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, and before the SRS parliamentary groups, I will ask two clear and concrete questions. Question number one - what do the government and the state of Serbia do specifically to protect the fundamental human rights of Professor Vojislav Seselj? I mean primarily the right to live, according to Article 24. Serbia's Constitution and Article 21. The Constitution, about the ban on discrimination. For a long time, we have been pointing to adequate diagnostics and treatment in The Hague tribunal, which is causing the established suspicions of experts. Further, right to patient information based on point 4. The European Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights, brought to Amsterdam on 28 March 1994, and the World Association's position on patients' information rights, since October 2009, has been precisely nine points in these documents and particularly explained how patients' information rights are being exercised. The new moment we have today is that after the operation carried out on 28 October 2010, the situation has not changed subjectively with Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and he does not possess the basic elemental information, which the previous two documents guarantee him. Question number two – does the Government have the will and capacity to prevent the obstruction of advisory assistance in the treatment of Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, demonstrated by VMA through Prof. Dr. Miodrag Jeftic and Minister of the Army, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, withholding the permission of Professor Dr. Zdravko Mijailovic to engage in the treatment of Prof. Vojislav Seselj? I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the culmination of hypocrisy is a letter to the Health Committee of October 11th and 14th, where Mr Sutanovac, the Minister of the Army, considers himself competent to attend the Committee and discuss problems in the domain of medical ethics and delinthology. According to SRS MPs, he is making fun of the civilian control of the military and the institutions of parliamentary democracy, in this case to the Health Committee. Such behaviour also imposes the need to place military health services under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain why I'm asking these questions, which are already being repeated. I got an answer on the clear questions I asked the same content. From who? I've sent to the Prime Minister, and I've received from the Minister of Health, a man who says to himself that he's been authorized, who doesn't participate, as we heard last night, in the debates and who should have told us sooner about the state of the nation's health, which unfortunately is catastrophic. Why isn't the Prime Minister responding to the MP? To see how the answer was addressed – the Office's opinion was asked for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which says, we sent a letter, there is no answer. Now we should be satisfied with this pamphlet that's written here. There's no agreement on the second question at all, only that they asked for information and they didn't get it. I don't want to read it. It's a shame and a shame. You need to teach those who write. Who cares, can see. Shut up, we know you're uncomfortable talking about all this. Articles 10 and 14. The universal declaration of human rights, which speaks of a public trial within a reasonable period, is not of interest to the institutions of this system. But, gentlemen, why aren't you also interested in the basic human right that is at stake in the Hague tribunal today, Mr Vojislav Seselj, which is the right to life and information? What do we have left? These are questions that we refer to elementary human solidarity and humanity. If you have no sense of it, we are left with only this way and in direct contact with Serbian citizens to tell the truth about The Hague tribunal and the state of health of Vojislav Seselj. At a big rally in Novi Sad, Spence on Friday, we will be forced to discuss with citizens such flagrant violations of Serbia's human rights, to which the state of Serbia does not react.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46226	Would any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Ilic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the presence of both Vesna Hreljac Ivanovic and Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Finance Minister Predrag Aleksic, Head of Finance Department and Dusan Puric, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, to the National Assembly's representatives. We move to the 17-22st agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE CODE OF SERBIA TO SERBIA, JAT GARANCE FOR THE BOOK OF THE BOOK AND APPROACH TO THE CODE OF THE SRABIA, FOR THE REAL ADVANCE OF THE CARINS SRADNJA AND THE CONTRAC TO THE SRAFTS OF THE CRAFTS OF THE CRAFTS OF THE SRAFTS AND THE SRAFTS OF THE SRAFTS OF THE CRAFTS OF THE SRAFTS OF THE CRAFTS OF THE CRAFTS OF THE SRAFTS OF THE CRACRAC AND THE CRAFTS OF THE CRACKS OF THE CRAFTS OF THE CRANK, FOR THE CRAFTS OF THE CRACRACK, FOR THE CRAFTS, FOR THE CRAFTS OF THE CRANS AND THE CRANS OF THE CRANK. Before I ask if he wants the word of the finance minister, the proposing representative, I would like to inform the National Assembly that he is an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic. Does the Minister want a word? The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46227	Ladies and gentlemen and honourable Members of the People, you have before you a proposal for six financial laws. You have before you a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to finance the budget deficit of ten business banks, a draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Social Generale Bank of Serbia a.d. and United Credit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT AIRWAYS" a.d. Belgrade. In front of you is the proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Security of the Republic of Serbia of the Concessional Loan of the People's Republic of China, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the State Concession Loan for the Project System NUCTECH tm for inspection. Finally, you have before you a proposal for a law confirming the Supplement to the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance in customs matters. As we are all well aware, the 2010 Budget Law provides for budget deficits and as a way of financing deficits of the debt of the Republic of Serbia. The budget law also stipulates that the deficit will also be financed by credit debt, but also by government bonds. In front of you, there is a credit responsibility to finance the deficit. It is a credit responsibility of the Republic of Serbia with ten banks, divided into 25 charters of 10m euros in dinar equivalent. What are the mandatory elements of the contract? Since the Republic of Serbia is in charge of financing the deficit in ten banks, the interest margin differs from the bank to the bank, from the paper to the paper. It ranges from 4.25% to 5.30%, plus a three-month Eurobor, which currently stands at 1.05%. The interest rate is equal to this interest margin, plus the three-month eurybor. The terms of the loan itself, besides the prices, are the period of payment. The payment period is five years. The five-year period also includes a year of rest. The credit pays off half-years. The component of all the contracts is that those who take credit, therefore, the Republic of Serbia, has the right to return before the time, without any compensation. The next law, i.e. the bill before you, is the law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Social Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Uni Credit Bank Serbia a.d. under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT AIRWAYS" a.d. Belgrade. I'd like to take this opportunity and say that our airline is in the process of restructuring, that this is, therefore, taking a guarantee, just one of the steps taken. For example, the first step is to isolate non-correspondence, pilot academy and agricultural aviation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Also, a selection of consultants is under way, i.e. a strategy for the creation and establishment of a new company. Because if we want to attract an institutional investor, which is our intention, the one who wants to invest in our company, wants that company to be cleared of its debts. This is the last element of this strategy, i.e. the provision of guarantees, involving a long-term loan to two banks for three very important purposes. The first purpose is to revitalize the company itself. For this, a 40m-euro loan is taken in the dinar equivalent. Then the second part is to train the fleet and work on engines worth 9.5m euros and, finally, twom euros to rent two new-generation aircraft. In all, it is a 51.5m-euro debt. I would like to remind you that the issue of this guarantee by the Republic of Serbia is also foreseen by the 2010 Budget Law. When it comes to the terms of this loan, the interest rate is equal to three months' euribor. I remind you that at this point, it is 1.05% and an interest margin of 3.95% on the annual level. It's a long-term loan. The payment period is six years. The period of six years also includes a period of two years of rest. The credit is paid in half a year's war. The next law in front of you is the law confirming a framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China on the security of the Republic of Serbia's concession loan to the People's Republic of China. So, as you remember, in order to improve bilateral co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, an agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure has been concluded. The agreement was confirmed by the National Assembly, the Law on the Confirmation of this Agreement was adopted. In order to implement this agreement on economic and technical co-operation, there was a signing of the Memorandum between the Ministry of Finance, i.e. its administration, i.e. Customs Administration and Nutek Company, and the intention of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Customs Administration to obtain from the Nutek Company 13 X-ray units for the control of vehicles and containers, above all, portable but also classical ones. In order to implement this memorandum, the delivery contract is concluded. The delivery contract is worth $30m, followed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's so-called. the application to the People's Republic of China and to the Export-Import of the Bank of China for the approval of the concession loan. The People's Republic of China approved this concession loan and it is long-term, given for a period of 15 years, a grace period of three years, with a fixed interest rate of up to 3% per year is included. The conclusion of this framework agreement is a formal condition for the approval of the Republic of Serbia for concession loans, and the provision of the first law provides for the approval of the Framework Agreement by the National Assembly. At the same time as the conclusion of the agreement, a State concession agreement for the Nutek project was signed for inspection of vehicles and containers, I said the terms and conditions, and the provision of Article 1 of this law stipulates that this contract is confirmed by the National Assembly. Finally, we have before us a proposal for a law confirming the Completion of the Convention on the creation of the Customs Cooperation Council. It may be short on the World Customs Organisation, because it is a single intergovernmental organisation dealing with customs matters, with the aim of improving the efficiency of customs administrations, and was established in 1952 as a council for customs co-operation, and then in 1994 it was named World Customs Organisation; it today has 174 members and covers more than 98% of world trade. What is the mission of the World Customs Organization? Simplification of procedures, increased efficiency of customs procedures, uniformity of its application, capacity improvement, security of forums for international co-operation, fosters co-operation between customs administrations, as well as between customs administrations and trade communities, and represents a forum to raise all important issues from customs areas. The Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia joined this organisation in 1960 and was a member of the World Customs Organisation by June 1991, then took a break in the period until 2001, when the SRJ became a member of this organisation again, and in 2006 as an international and legal successor. What's the subject of these changes? In essence, only two members of the Convention are changed, and these are members of the way in which the customs union can become members of the Convention and the way in which the customs union, i.e. the economic union, will exercise its right to vote. The last draft of the law before you is to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance in customs matters. I would say that this agreement is a legal framework so that the customs authorities of the two countries can cooperate, can provide assistance, and it is about standardised agreements. So far, 20 customs co-operation agreements have been signed, and out of those 20 agreements, as many as four have been signed with countries located outside Europe. Given that it is very important laws, the laws that have passed your vote in the 2010 budget vote, I ask the MPs to bear in mind that they have voted once for these borrowing laws and to support all six draft laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46228	Before we continue the work, I would like to remind the National Assembly that on Thursday, November 4, we have given notice of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, and only the reminders for the sake of, the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups for the agenda points that are under way, the joint principled search from 17 to 22, are MP Zoran Kasalović, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Vlajko Senic – G 17 plus, MP Veroljub Arsic – NS, MP Dragan Stevanović – SRS, and as I have already informed, MP Zoran Ostojić – LDP. Also, on the basis of Articles 87 and 90 of Article 2, as well as Article 27, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours, that a regular break from one hour will be set at the beginning of the moment when we end the work of a joint principled search on points 17 to 22 currently under way, and after an hour, we will open a joint principle search on agenda points from 23 to 29 and we will hold a hearing after 1800 hours, but no longer than 20.00 hours. Do the officials of the committees want a word, the Finance Committee, Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Radojko Obradovic was registered in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, a very important set of laws, and right after this opening presentation, after such an important set of laws, we seem to be able to say a few words about the lack of procedure, because democracy represents building a procedure. Some other parliaments have opportunities within the time allowed, which is for the heads of authorised groups for 20 minutes, exposure can be divided into more than two parts as allowed in our parliament. Is that necessary and why I point out that, I will say in the course of the debate. I have to admit, you've been very good at explaining these six or seven topics, as defined here. I have to admit, I liked these explanations very much, but there's only one problem. You didn't answer any key questions. You're just, all we're interested in, you're supposed to answer that, and if the procedure was like that, I would now sit down and wait for you to answer those important questions for me, and what you said, it's written in an explanation, and that's understood. What are the key issues in the DSS opinion? First question, what is most important for us at this point, what is most important for Serbia? The second question, what is most important for us and for generations to come? How we're going to get answers and what the finance minister is going to tell us in response to these questions. The first law and law, which you said, according to the budget allows budget financing, defines ten banks' borrowing, a total of 250m euros. Let me remind you, Prime Minister, the president of your government, the president who has proposed you here, advocates every speech to deeuroise Serbia. Why is the government in debt in the euro? This loan isn't in the dinars, it's in the euro. Does this mean that the Prime Minister is talking to one another on television, and then when he comes to the Assembly, he proposes something else entirely? How will citizens and businesses be in debt in dinars if the government is in debt in the euro? We all look at the government when we make some decisions, some business, foreign investors, all of us together looking at what the government's moves are so that we can make some of our own personal moves. How can we talk about deeuroisation if we're in debt in dinars? The second question – why are you changing the way you finance? A year ago, when that budget you're telling us about now, you said that the state would broadcast securities of value. But it's obvious, and we've repeatedly pointed out to you that it's not an unexhausted source of funding. Who bought these records of value? Could any of us have bought these records of value? It's not. They bought these same banks. The basic question to which you need to answer is – why will banks no longer buy securities from the values of the state, which have excellent interest rates, which they did until a few months ago, and now they want to lend to the same state, but in euros? That's what you were supposed to tell us in your opening statement. The answer to that is very simple – no one trusts this country's economy. Everyone has inflationary expectations and everyone believes that the euro course is not realistic. That's the answer to the question why the bank wants to give credit to the state in euros, and it won't buy securities of value in dinars, because there's no trust in dinars. What happened to economic policy if this key way of funding the deficit is changed, if we have to take credit now to refinance those securities from the values you told us would allow us to finance? How are we gonna do this next year? Because obviously that model doesn't work anymore. It hasn't worked for several months and it's been pretty bad for all those long-term charters that have had a maturity of more than three months. Not to mention, I've already talked about how much more interest rates are in Serbia than the values of all the countries in the region, and we're some kind of leader in the region. With us, these interest rates range from 11% to 13.5%, in some other countries there are 3-4%. The interest rate is a reflection of the economy, a reflection of the perspective, a reflection of the trust that someone had in the economy in a particular country and government and economic policy. What happened to that economic policy in the last year? What happened to the reforms you announced? Why is there no reform of the tax system? It's one of the most important projects of both the state and the government and your ministry. Anything else can, except reforming that tax system. You didn't tell us what the borrowing costs were? Does something change, since the broadcast of state records was one way, now we're going to borrow? What's the cost of borrowing like this? In the Budget Law, only at the cost of interest on loans taken by the state separates about 350m euros. How much is 350 million euros? It's very simple. The 70 municipalities in Serbia, when they start from the most underdeveloped ones, are smaller than the interest on loans Serbia is paying for dues. So, the budgets of 70 municipalities, when they are added together, are smaller than 350m euros this year alone for interest. Then what are we talking about? Since a reform law was passed 10-15 days ago, the Budgetary System and Fiscal Responsibility Act, did you tell us what this is about with the Fiscal Responsibility Act? According to the data you published, before we're in charge of this 250 million, plus these other loans, the public debt is 38.5%. Now you've proposed 300 and a few million euros. How much does that increase public debt? Just before I left for the O.R., I received another loan – 100m euros for the railway. What does that have to do with public debt? I don't know if you were there, November 5th, the government of the Republic of Serbia, first Vice President Ivica Dacic - 100m euros for the railway. What does the public debt have to do with what Minister Djelic, or Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, says? He said we'd all be fighting for new loans. He was a guest at the World Bank and said we did not use the 600 million left, and Mr Djelic asked the World Bank for another 900m euros in credit. What does that have to do with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, where is the debt limit 40 and 45%, respectively? What about the deficit that next year will be a few percent again? Why does the government self-destruct the Fiscal Responsibility Act? I'd like you to answer me what this has to do with what was promised to the pensioners and what the Prime Minister promised that pensions wouldn't be less than 60%? What does that have to do with the Fiscal Responsibility Act? Because the purpose of this law is to make pensions less than 50%. If this turned into today, pensions today would be around 15 to 15.5 thousand dinars under the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Then what are we talking about here? What does this law have to do with the Fiscal Responsibility Act? Why did we pass a law that would be exhausted for the next six months? Just what I've listed so far is more than 45 percent of the public debt. Then how are we gonna get those loans back? How come it's not, if it's 38.5 and this 1.5% of what you gave us today, these 100 million for the railways, these billions and for Djelic's, it's all not that 45% but it's far more than that. It's simple math. That's what you learn in the first grade of elementary school, not to say that you learn it in the entertainment school, that addition up to 45. Or are you gonna tell us again that it's with the IMF and it doesn't count? It's that it's long, but it doesn't count, so you'll tell us. Then what does it count? Well, tell us what counts, so we know what we're going to add. Does the Budgetary System Act count? It's November 9th. Where's the budget? The deadline was nine days ago. You were supposed to deliver the budget to us nine days ago, and he's gone. Did you deliver the final bill for last year? The deadline was July 15th. I don't remember him coming. Did you deliver us a consolidated final account for the entire state sector? The deadline was November 1st. That, Mrs Dragutinović, is Article 78. Budgetary system law. Where are your laws? We don't respect the laws we make ourselves, and then we say, "Why are there high interest rates here and why don't foreign investors come?" They won't, because they don't respect the laws they've passed. This law was passed 10 days ago and already it's been broken who knows how many members. Now I'd like to get back to this law. The budget you were telling us about limits the deficit to 107 billion. According to the finance ministry's latest data, on November 1st, nine days ago, the day you were due to deliver the budget, the deficit was 98.5 billion compared to the budget law. Do you have another methodology compared to the IMF? But I guess it's binding for us what the text of the law is, not the IMF methodology. According to that methodology, you calculate some other revenue, so that deficit is lower. Under the budget law, the deficit was 98.5 billion on November 1st. So, the deficit by the end of the year, if you don't suggest a rebalance, can only rise by 8.5 billion dinars or 85 million euros, in a country where we fight for deeuroisation. What does this law have to do with the Budget Law and the Public Debt Act? In this law, you didn't say in any word what part of it would go to the deficit, what part of it would go to debt refinance? We don't know from this money here that you're asking us to give you the consent of how much it goes on one and how much it goes on the other. The Public Debt Act clearly defines the deficit, clearly defines the refinancing. These are two different members of that law. The obligation under that law was to separate us and tell exactly what the Ministry of Finance projections were for one thing and another. Article 7 indicates – debt to refinance the deficit. Article 8 – Refinancing debt. I think this law knows two different categories. You haven't said a single word about projections for one thing or another. Does that mean we're going to break the budget deficit? If you follow these trends, then it'll be risky. What do we got now? We have no respect for the Budgetary System Act. We have a fiscal responsibility law to collapse at every turn. Because those who voted in favour of that law, when they say pensions will be 60%, they break that law. They are destroying it because they will not implement any reform of the pension system and they are fully aware that the reform is unsustainable. It's not the end of the world in 2012, there's a bit of a mistake, a completely wrong translation of the end of the world, but in Serbia, everything doesn't end in 2012 because all projections are being made by the election year. Well, will this people live after the election, or do you think that's not how it's supposed to be? These are the answers you should have given us, so that on the basis of these answers we have a good debate here, and you don't say -- it was the Budget Law, so support, and we'll move on. Okay, so we'll back it up and then what? So what do we do when he gets here in 2012? You're not doing well, Madam Minister. No, not for you, but for all of us and for all of those who come behind us. That's the responsibility it takes here, not the nice stories, so let's see, when that time comes, then we'll all pull our hair together.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46230	Twelve minutes and 40 seconds spent time as deputy president of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've expected a little more from the explanation of the government's representative and the finance minister that we are here, in fact, discussing and why these loans and under what conditions we owe the state. The first thing I have to notice is interest rates that are unrealistically high for the state. Madam Minister, if you look at the financial lease contracts for the purchase of cars from 2004 and 2005, you will see that the citizens were able to buy cars on these interest rates, let alone that the state owed on these interest rates, when that eurobor was 2.5% and 3%, and now it's 1%. The second thing you have to notice when you look at these papers is that you probably won't be a minister when these loans start paying off the first wars. That's why you're getting into this story with a loose end, without a lot of worry, and it's not a big deal, then you're in charge of the state. Well, let whoever comes to rule, I won't be. But, Madam Minister, has anyone told you that the European Central Bank has announced an increase in the euro? So it won't be exactly the right conditions. Maybe 2011 is a little worse than it is now, but as the years go by, and the wars come to pass, the conditions will get worse and worse. Unless you're hoping by some miracle you'll return everything, as it says in some of these members of the law, before the time. But here's another reason why I claim these loans are unfavourable. The interest shall be calculated according to Article 3(1) of point (10) by a comfortable method based on the calendar number of days per month and year, of 365 days and 366 days respectively. That means, Madam Minister, when you withdraw the first loan war, that 12 months will account for your interest on your assets, plus the interest rate for each accounting period of a month or, as our people say, interest on interest. We'd better not have a grace period, then. The second question here, too, is that the interest is in line with the three-month euros, and the wars return to the six-month tranches. Wasn't it more normal, if it's the three-month eurybor, that the three-month interest returns or, if the six-month war, the six-month Eurobor, that the state and you as ministers have more precise information about how your duties will go. When you look at the explanation, I don't say the law was broken here, but I think it could have been much better done. Public procurement was carried out by means of a negotiation procedure without publication of a public call. Why didn't you publish it? So these banks can participate, the ones we have on the market. I think a lot of banks that are here on the market need to withdraw their work permit, Madam Minister. Many need to be suspended from foreign payments. Why are we putting them in one privileged position now? And the state guarantees and everyone guarantees a loan that any citizen abroad can raise, under these conditions, even better. The question arises why is the state raising credit? Because PIO funds are empty, because health care funds are empty, because the number of employees relative to the number of pensioners is low, because we have a low level of industrial production. That's why we're taking the loan. The expenditures of the state are huge. Those who are now in Switzerland or where, with 45 staff members, have to settle as if it wasn't enough for one minister to go, but also for the entire cabinet and secretaries to go. And it has to be paid. So that's why we're raising our loans. Madam Minister, I can't blame you for everything. You're not exactly the primary culprit for everything that's been happening to us, but you've been a minister for three years and you haven't done anything to make some bad habits and bad things that your predecessors have done before. That's the problem. Nothing's changed in three years. Ministers change, some coalitions change, but the policy that is devastating for the state, the citizens and the economy remains. Let's get going: where's the source of inflation, where's the source of the euro? What's the real source? Low productivity. Cause? Banks. The banks wouldn't be able to do that if it wasn't for the state and the NBS. You know that well. We don't want to go back much, just this year. The daily liquidity of the banking sector, according to the NBS, was around 400 billion dinars on 10 January 2010. That's enough to look at the NBS site, you don't have to watch anything else, just follow the data published by the NBS. That was January 10th, the first serious working day of the year. Today's liquidity is moving at around 211 billion dinars. Somewhere that money went missing, 200 billion dinars evaporated somewhere. Where did it go, Madam Minister? When we look at NBS foreign reserves, as of October 30th 2010, they were reduced by 2,084.700,000 euros, and the increase in foreign reserves of banks is only 383 billion. Do not convince me that these 1.7 - 1.8m euros went to import goods and services, because if they had gone to import goods and services, they would not have reduced the liquidity of the banking sector, they would have remained the same. In 2008, one part of 2009 and most of it during 2010, the banks were our foreign currency assets and foreign reserves from the country. You know that well. Everyone in this country is quiet and doesn't want to talk about this problem. I can't say it's your fault. The problem arose in 2006, when Jelasic and Dinkic remembered the value paper. Since then, there has been a game that is devastating to the state, to the citizens and to the economy, and you all remain silent for the sake of power, no matter what consequences we suffer, and the future of the country suffers. That's why I said, in 2005, under these conditions you could buy a car, even more favourable than the state is now providing guarantees, because they remembered value paper, they remembered the reference interest rates that were 15.75% at that time. As a result, citizens and businesses are starting to compete for loans with the state. Credits collect even twice with a foreign exchange clause, about a dinar that I don't even speak. Madam Minister, here's the answer from where inflation came from. So every company that takes credit at the price of its goods and services has to calculate the loan, so we get inflation. That's the problem. What's the next consequence? Foreign exchange funds are being attracted for the purchase of securities from the value of the NBS. The exchange rate of the euro is artificially maintained and stands on one level, reducing the possibility of exporting domestic economy. All this is done by NBS, Jelasic and Dinkic. That foreign trade deficit of ours is increasing that way. So now we already have an economy that's burdened with expensive loans, a country that's over-indebted and nobody knows why it's in debt, broadcasting securities at very high interest rates. Again, what we have as a consequence, you know that everyone who deals with this business, but shut up, the primary show through the interest paid by the NBS. When you do something in one system that's this small, economically small, which is on fragile legs, it only takes one small thing to create an entire disorder and a whole series, and the consequences are long-term. All those who criticise you about this have some merit, except MPs who have never supported the government since 2000, so here they have some merit in this. What is further as a consequence that occurs with one of these modes of work? NBS doesn't do anything to stop banks from going wild on this market. Look out, during June, July and August, foreign exchange and foreign exchange inflows in Serbia are higher than obligations based on imports of goods and services. The NBS is selling foreign exchange reserves and the euro course is jumping. Then there's really a problem, and I think that someone really needs to answer, someone because they're doing something, and someone's not doing something. Madam Minister, in Article 6. The law on the ministries of your ministry is responsible for the foreign exchange system and credit relations with abroad, supervision of the application of rules relating to the transport of goods and services with abroad and the exercise of work abroad from foreign exchange and credit relations with abroad. If I were you, I wouldn't accept this as a finance minister because you're being put in charge of you overseeing payment traffic abroad, and objectively you're not able to do that. Who's able to do that? Only NBS because it provides services to banks when carrying out payment traffic abroad, it is their customer service. And in the old National Bank Act, it said that the National Bank is overseeing foreign payments. Why did Jelasic give it up? So you wouldn't be responsible for what's going on and it put you in charge. You, if you want to carry out surveillance, you have to consult the NB, which is an independent state and the organ doesn't suit you, is the problem. So our foreign payments are not controlled, and that's why all this is happening. As a consequence, of course inflation. We now have to refute Serbia's capital to ensure that our goods and services are correct on the foreign market, and that we refute our assets that were acquired both by the economy and by the citizens. To what benefit? In favor of banks. What banks? Well, the ones where we take out the credit, so I don't count it. Why didn't you make an international public call? There might be a bank that doesn't participate in all this, that would really put 250m euros in the country, not through securities that nobody knows who does what, but through real money, to drive these monopolies away, to let them know they can't do it anymore. Madam Minister, as a People's MP, I have the right to parliamentary matters. These are: which banks and in which amounts amounted to foreign currency during 2008, 2009 and 2010, at the conclusion of 30.9.2010, with no evidence of imports of goods and services? Second parliamentary question: what is the foreign exchange inflow based on exports of goods and services in 2008, 2009 and 2010, which is the final inflow at 30.9, based on the guarantees for the payment of pensions from our citizens who have acquired pensions abroad, and what is the inflow based on trading transactions for the same period? If someone takes the paper and the pen, they'll calculate that the foreign trade deficit is covered on the basis of signs of our citizens receiving pensions here, and they've earned them abroad, and based on exchange transactions and one small part based on credit. So don't let anyone lie to us anymore that the consequences we suffer today are the reason for low production, a small number of employees. These are the consequences, and the real reason is the speculative behaviour of the NB, the banks that are here on the market and the government that are involved in all of this from 2005 to today. That's the reason. When we know which banks they are, why you did not use the law of the NB law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia could suspend payment traffic abroad when significant disturbances of importance arise for the functioning of the state and economic system. You didn't use it, it was easier for banks to get money out of the state and profit out of here. No one will react to that, you're afraid you won't join the EU for it. You know what, the EU is not only a matter of political nature and the rest of power but also of economic policy. Are we going to join the EU as citizens or are we going to enter the EU naked and barefoot? For this second, I am not, for the first to protect the state's interests, the interests of its economy and its citizens, and to join the EU, the SNS stands for it. For the way you're leading us, make sure you don't have our support. When we find out what banks they're so we can take away their work permits, we can put them on the blacklist so they can't buy securities out of value anymore, that they can't apply for subsidized loans, etc. What's going to happen, except we're editing our banking system? We will also edit the situation that the surplus money does not buy high-interest states, but that it places citizens and businesses under more favourable conditions, so that real spending finally takes place, real jobs, increases income. The only good thing about all these 250m euros stories is that the state of Serbia will withdraw 25 to 26 billion dinars and reduce pressure on the euro. If that was your goal, it's an honor, but in this way it's just sticking your head in the sand for some time when someone's got to get it back. As I said at the outset, there's every opportunity, Madam Minister, that you won't even return the first interest war for these loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46232	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46233	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, Members of the People's Parliament, today I am extremely surprised to see that you have again prepared a package of duties for us, with foreign banks under commercial conditions and that you want to adopt before the rebalance, because these 250m euros will then be in budget rebalancing, will be normal for some funds, etc. Is there anyone normal in the government who can stand in the way of this debt under commercial conditions, besides certain institutions that, as the IMF, have given funds to fill in the gaps in the budget and push out this financial year? You are responsible as the finance minister for not having happened, because the pre-accounts that were made were made so that the IMF loan pushes this financial year. However, you are now entering a story of new responsibilities. Here, take Miskovic's Bank of Inteza again 140 million places under commercial conditions. Do you know what it means when a bank places, and the state guarantees that kind of money with a budget? It's a well-being for all these banks, and a failure for the state, for the Serbian economy. How do you think these loans come back? From what means will these loans be recovered? With inflation that's 10%? With the growth of the euro and this loan will grow, much more and here will follow the growth of the euro and we will come into a very difficult situation. This government is so arrogant and irresponsible when we see from the bill that, for example, JAT only plans 51 million, it is not the means to invest in new planes or in technology to make JAT work, to transport passengers, so that it can service loans. This is for covering losses in a public enterprise. Do you know, ma'am, that JAT directors have paid over 10,000 euros for good business? Do you know that the director of Belgrade Airport, or Nikola Tesla, had a salary, and we discussed that, 20,000 euros? Do you know that the director in flight control and directors all have a salary of over 20,000 euros? Do you know that flight control invested through a loan to build a administrative building, 70m euros, credited with European banks? And when you know all that, you see that JAT is a bottomless hole, in which it can no longer be financed. I remember perfectly well, here came Aeroflot and offered excellent resources, good resources, at the level of two states, in an interstate agreement, to buy JAT, to stabilize it, to bring new planes to take off from Belgrade. I personally remember that Minister Dinkic said -- that takes you to the Russian Federation, not the EU, in Brussels I was given a warrant that it could not go through. And it's hitchhiked. That loser is left behind and he's losing, and he's completely self-inflicted. Now the debts are higher than the capital five times. JAT won't have a year or two to fly with. What are you investing in? The salaries of the directors that the parties set up there, and there are hundreds of them, who do whatever they want. Why? To be peace in the government. Yes, if a certain party, if you change the director, cut the salary, they will leave the government, the government will fall, and you now have to put your head in the sand, to borrow the state, and to appease all the party leaders, their parties, their extracadres. I've recently told you here, in this House, that there is a man in JAT who is piloting and working in JAT. He is also in the JAT Management Board, the director of the other JAT-related company, should exercise supervision. He's in three working relationships, three pay receipts, and he's got a fake degree, that the MUP knows. He went to college for some juices, juice-squeezing. Do you know that? Someone turned on the phone because he was holding with a minister together a coffee shop, a minister who very often comes here to give us lectures, they gave a nice, exclusive coffee shop and now he's holding an exclusive restaurant in Belgrade, and he, a Belgrade guy, is not allowed to touch it. That's the story. Three salaries in three working relationships, a conflict of interest to the end, a director's salary of over 10,000 euros, and we cover with a loan with commercial banks of such people who lead and such losses are real. And you're behind it, Mrs. Dragutinovic. You're responsible for this. You don't have the strength to resign. You're going out with this mess at the end of the year, that the state is in charge of commercial loans to push through the financial year to the end. Does President Tadic know that? Did you consult him on this? I guarantee he doesn't have a clue. Do you all put your head in the sand and stand behind this? Do you realize that someone will answer for this and have to answer for it? Did you bring Shoskić here to give us every evening lectures on successes, on everything, on the National Bank that has consolidated itself, which is completely under the control of the bank, etc., and the whole system, to be obedient to grant us these loans? Do you know what it means to owe 250 million euros? All morning on the morning programme – Dulic makes 5,000 apartments in Belgrade, the construction of the Kings begins, millions, trucks, planes, everything arrives, all workers in Serbia who are free to go into construction. From what, ma'am? Of the commercial loans you take with 7% interest? You know what the maximum profit is for the best companies that do business - 10% a year. What do you want back from? What to invest, what to do? Where are you taking this country? Who runs this country's macroeconomic policy, who runs this country's finances? Where did you take this poor, tortured Serbia? You'll make it through the year, until you sell Telecom, you'll bridge this. Then you'll spend it in large infrastructure facilities, just like you started four highways this year at once. You don't want to be petty - one, four pieces. How many miles have you done? It's misery and misery, and misfortune. You five million dinars carry the King, where thousands of houses are no longer for housing, where every day 200-300 objects are shot at the expense of earthquakes. It's a mess. If I were a finance minister and went with the prime minister to offer five million dinars, that's 50,000 euros, so it can't be made. You say we gave a one-time aid of five million dinars. I thought I'd get another million euros. How can you not be ashamed? Where did you find 10m euros for Mladic? That's what it's for. If anyone turns you around, you're the one who dug it up. From where? Here, I ask you a question, in writing to answer me -- how come 10m euros now for the Mladic Prize, if it is not in the Budget Law and if the budget rebalance has not passed? From which trust did you give it, I ask for a written reply to be delivered to me as a MP and where did you dig ten million euros from? Who taught you to do that? Now you're looking for commercial loans to cover all the crap you've had. You made wishes, what anyone wanted, what anyone asked. It takes seven days to read to you how stupid you've done during the year, what you've invested everything in. You've brought Jura, so you're buying, so you're giving 5,000 euros, then 7,000 euros, then 10,000 euros per employee, so you're bringing in some companies that don't exist. You hire, you open factories, you work, you build, so where's your budget charge when you're making so much progress and so much work? What does Serbia export at this time? What do you think of exporting to make up for it? What did you do to increase exports, only to stabilise the state and do something and improve the financial situation in the country? How do you plan to cover a budget deficit that's huge? Commercial loans again. Do you believe that a normal businessman in Serbia, here you find a businessman who will take a loan with seven percent interest. Everybody goes outside, opens up some companies and takes loans with three or four percent interest. Are you normal, people in government, when you place government deposits and public companies deposits in these same banks with 2%, and you take your money from them with 7%? Who's here, who's taking commissions, profits, what's they funding you for, what's this all about? Why didn't you build a Serbian investment bank? Has that been promising for years? Why aren't our deposits in our bank, they're not being placed in our economy? Do you know what the daily charge is for EPS, Telekom, which you are about to sell now because it burns under your feet to extend power for five or six months? Do you know that Post Office and Telekom have their own bank, the Post Office, which has the most clients in the state, and they place money at the Inthesis and other banks. Whose policy is this? The one who sold Mr Dinkic and Miskovic? You know that Miskovic's team from Delta Bank, which was later sold and moved back to Miskovic via a Cypriot firm, and you know, without dinars in Serbia's budget and how it happened, and that's one big scam that was made in Serbia, and now the Bank "Inteza" of Italy appears. It's true that it's an Italian bank, it's part of the stock, but whose majority of the stock is in it, and who did it? You now place state deposits with these banks instead of putting you in your own bank. Imagine public companies that own their own bank, where pension payments are, where large funds turn, and 2% of the money goes to other banks that return to you after that money with 7% interest? What kind of policy is this, and where does such a policy lead, and where will this Serbia come from with such a situation? Here, the Chinese banks have introduced you. Why don't they place? Let the Chinese take the loan at 7% interest. Find a businessman from Serbia who will say that a 7% interest is justified and that it is placed in some investment. You place all this to cover your stupidity, to extend power, to stay a little longer, etc. So this is a policy that doesn't lead anywhere. That's why you can't survive anymore, and that's why it's incorrect to torture the state and torture this Parliament. You have a majority of two or three MPs who will vote all of this, who vote all that is brought and who will accept all of this, and we are sinking deeper and deeper every day. Where are those investments? Where are these hirings? Where are the investments in the promotion of exports, in new jobs? There's no such thing. How come you don't have a dinar in your budget? How can you not have the most basic things to pay? I've read that this parliament is being disgraced every day by the media. It says there hasn't been any electricity paid for years for this assembly. It says it wasn't paid for, it wasn't paid for. Guys, what kind of country do we live in? We're out there chasing someone named Zika, Peru and Mike for a thousand dinars, for two thousand dinars and shutting down the power. How can parliament not pay for electricity if it has obligations to the EPS? How come the government didn't pay for the electricity? Please, then all citizens should say they won't pay for electricity when the government doesn't pay for electricity either. You know how to spend it elsewhere. Since I have great experience in the building, I've calculated, do you know how many millions of euros these skeletons have been standing here for a year and will stand for who knows how long? Do you know how many days it is to rent these skeletons here? Do you know that, Madam Minister? You don't know, that's why you owe this country. Someone's taking and just filling a bank. I'd like to see whose skeletons are and who's just collecting here. There's no worker here. This serves as a mask to get people out to smoke from the congregation. Maybe that's why it's forbidden to smoke, so they can hang around there and smoke cigarettes. What's going on? Do you know how many days it is to rent a skeleton around Parliament? So I'm asking you, who's paying for it and what's paying for it and whose skeletons are around here? Do you know how many such investors there are? Who are the people who are going to make these 5,000 apartments? What party is that? Who owns that firm that got a job in a fair tender? He was a fair tender and transparent. Where'd you get the funds for those apartments? It's another commercial loan, all the same again. I was building houses. Look at the financials. From the rink and the elementary disasters, 300 euros per square metre, the key to the hand. You have papers, look. You're telling me that this is on Vozdovec, that the location of the war, that everything has been done 1,200 – 1,300 euros, that it's something low, etc. Do you know that in Belgrade you can buy 1,000 euros of apartments if you want money? You're saying it's a hell of a job. Dulic made... Every morning in the morning program. Let's see that one solitary you made, let's see that one building, what the price is going to be. How much will you drop the price of the bridge on Savi? They're games without borders. Do you realize what kind of trap you've fallen into? You started an investment that no one knows today how much it costs and how to bring it to an end. There will be commercial loans again, re-indebted, etc. You were dumped by the IMF. That's why you're going on commercial loans. People raised their hands, saw that nothing was helping. Gather the ministers there, everyone accepts. Krkobiæ speaks to – you will all go well, pensioners, electricity remains, there is no collection, but the coefficient of reckoning changes. For electricity and oil, the formula changes, but there's no collection. That new formula is pump pick-up. Look how much oil there is. Oil's up. We hide now, say: there was no increase, but We changed the form of reckoning. So this doesn't lead anywhere, and I don't think there's any way this country can survive and you're sitting in that government. I told you last time, ma'am, you're a lady we greatly appreciate, you're professional, thank God you're educated, there's the same school ministers there, you're serving, you're educated, you're smart, but you can't say anything. Slap your hand on the table. You're the finance minister. This is what you're going to be doing tomorrow to someone else's parliament. I remind you, don't let some of them get through whatever they're up to and don't let Dinkic run your politics. I repeat, Miskovic's entire cabinet from Delta Bank was at the finance ministry and in the Treasury. His one director was the first associate of the finance minister for years, and the second one was the director of privatisation, and the third one was director of the Treasury. (President: 20 minutes. People's MPs used the time at your disposal. ) Therefore, Miskovic is dangerous and only milks this poor Serbia, and you are only amenating it and...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46234	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more of this borrowing talk and the loan and the funding of deficits and the refinancing of debts have become really sad and perhaps today and there is no need for any of the government representatives who have shown mercy to come to the Assembly to tell us anything about the criticisms or issues we are or who we are going to ask today. Because no common sense in economic logic will justify what is being done today, or what is expected after the adoption and possible ratification of these agreements. Our intention is not to convince the finance minister to give up such an agreement, i.e. new borrowings of the Serbian state, which are direct, which are indirect. Our intention, among other things, is to show the public how devastating this is on the one hand, and on the other hand to try, gentlemen MPs, on you who support this congregation majority and who have chosen this government not to support such agreements. Your role is not to listen blindly and follow government demands, which is totally contrary to economic logic. Your right and obligation is to say at some point – not to the Government, which imposes a lot of credit and debt on all of us together. One moment someone will ask you a question of political, moral, and historical responsibilities because of what you're doing today. After all, if you believed that this was right and you'd rise up well, and you as representatives of the parties who make up the assembly majority to say something in defense of these borrowings, not in one very interesting way to keep all of this quiet. Mrs Dragutinovic must defend these loans as she defended them at the beginning, because she knows how bad this is, how good this is, but is part of a completely wrong economic policy run by the government as it is, built on the principles on which it is built. What's irony? These same ministers assured us a few weeks ago of the principles of fiscal responsibility, in principle, which limit us to be in debt when it comes to deficits and the level of public debt. A few weeks later, we place another 300m euros in debt on the RS budget and all of the country's taxpayers. In particular, it insisted on the principle of fiscal responsibility in the context of responsible behaviour towards generations coming after us. Someone just said -- this government won't wait to pay off the first tranche, i.e. the first loan wars. This money is not going to spend, this government is the money you're pulling through these agreements already spent. Where's the economic logic? She's gone. There is political flexibility, political and economic dissuasion, and it is sad to see that today when fiscal and economics are at stake for finance ministers in the government and what is the position of this government at all. All that's going on is just steps in a series of losses to this country's economic sovereignty. Mrs Dragutinović, you know it well, so keep your mouth shut and you don't have to say anything. You don't have to. The finance minister in a serious and orderly state is the head of the house, if you can say so, and even in that EU of yours you have been taking us to, they are not fighting for a position in the directorates of the state's finances that entered the EU two, three or five years ago, they have no right to think about it. You know who runs the main word, the most powerful and the most serious. Here, finance in the state is run by anyone who wants to and wants to, in the government of the RS. You respond to their sick economic and political ambitions, I repeat, but when they are to come for you and sit there, Mrs Dragutinovic, then they are nowhere to be found, then we have to interrupt the Assembly and move it five days later, and by urgent procedure we adopt all of this so that the state and the budget can exercise their powers. It's all devastating and sad and for the SRS disgusting and unacceptable. Unfortunately, while the government that is in power is sitting there, Serbia will face these things and who knows what else. Many lawmakers spoke about loans, or these 10 parties, of 250m euros. There are things that some haven't touched. What is true is that loans are unfavourable. We tried to be more correct when we proposed with the amendment that you withdraw 250m euros under completely unfavourable conditions, but spend it on capital spending. Spend it on capital projects, if you're already pulling 250 million. Does anyone know what's being financed by these 250 million euros? A deficit? No one alive knows or will get an answer like that? What's the problem is that loans to refinance debts are withdrawn under these conditions. What loans did we withdraw when debts were refinanced at such interest rates? Do you know when you get these interest rates from banks? A week's savings. Banks are defined as depositors to deposit money on the savings of such interest only give seven days a year when the week is savings. Our country is in debt under these conditions. We don't have to talk about it. You have parallel to this loan that you get from China, which is incomparably more favourable than the loans you take for a budget deficit and debt refinance, and a loan that is also as long-term as this one, than the Chinese you're getting, you're going to pay back for 15 years or as long as it doesn't matter, with an interest rate of up to 3% and what's important is the loan you get from the Chinese will leave some material value in Serbia. It will enable the Customs Administration to work, and the budget deficit, the refinance of debts, what material benefit will it give Serbian citizens? Only spies if they locate Ratko Mladic. I don't just know which parties they're going to go to for those who go after Serbia after Ratko Mladic. These are economic absurdities that no one has any arguments or rights to defend. You may have an obligation, but this is really devastating. We don't dispute the possibility of the state borrowing. We don't dispute the possibility of the state having a budget deficit, but the state doesn't have the economic capacity to put up with all this and you're deeply aware of it, but you know there's little left. You have a pre-election year ahead of you. The funds will not be chosen to patch hands and eventually allow the state to service its current, or regular obligations. See what it says here in Article 5 – The funds to repay this loan will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia is owed to business banks to serve its current obligations. What irony and absurdity. What did none of the fellow MPs ask, and the SRS find very important – and what model of public procurement was applied? And why this particular model of public procurement? When we discussed the law on the affirmation of the construction industry here, some fellow MPs said because of this model of public procurement that the law suspended the Public Procurement Act. A negotiation procedure without publication of a public call. For what? It's a nice piece of reasoning, item 24. Do you know, honourable fellow MPs, what will you vote for? It states that under these conditions public procurement is carried out if, due to the exceptional urgency caused by emergency circumstances or unforeseen events whose performance is in no way dependent on the will of the contracting authority, the contracting authority could not have acted within the time limits set for open or restrictive proceedings. What could you not have predicted? You predicted the budget, you predicted the deficit, so you missed the deficit and got a blessing from a Washington mentor to change or increase the budget deficit. That's what you predicted. What could the client of these loans not predict? The political attractiveness of individual ministers in the government and their party and political ambitions. That's what to say. Why doesn't anyone talk today about the suspension of the Public Procurement Act? Everybody's quiet. Because they know what this is and how much this makes sense and economic logic. According to the SRS, there is nothing. You can do whatever you want, but it hurts us that we have to put up with it and that we're all going to pay for our economic misunderstandings together. It's unacceptable for the SRS. Also, no one here has touched this second agreement, or JAT loan. What does the state guarantee? For the economic policy that has so far been in place in the JAT. There was more reason to bankrupt JAT. We've been listening for a decade to identify the Dossow authorities to introduce corporate governance, to privatise the public sector. You've killed us with stories since 2007 about finding a strategic JAT partner. How far did the story go? You know what the story ends? That's what you started it with. You said – we're choosing again, we're making a choice of a consulting house. One strategy was the IFC that you didn't pay, but the Norwegians, okay, and it was said five years ago what was to be done with JAT. The new one was done by Rothschild, paid by the state, and Mr. Todorovic here told you how much the state cost your consulting houses, among other things it touched JAT, they did a new strategy, a study, told you what to do, and we're doing everything the opposite today. We owe 50m to a company that already owes 25m euros from last year alone. I believe their total debts are over 100 million. What did you define yourself for? You're gonna build a new company on government spending? That's what the SRS has been talking about before. Then you will give $400,000 for the founding stake, so you will transfer everything from JAT – good contracts, slots, optimal number of employees and valuable assets to the new company. So who's not gonna have a strategic partner like that? And the debts? Debts to the state. Let the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, think and return. What do we care? It's none of our business. And for the same time period, since 2007, the Russians have almost bought it, a strategic partner has been found, a finished story. That story's gone bad. We now hear the Minister of Ugljanin who says – gentlemen, the Turks have come, the story is over, we are before the signing. Public information has been published. And instead of spending all its energy on real structural reforms, the state will now be in debt, creating a new firm that everyone will normally buy or buy a majority package of actions, and I repeat, debts and problems will remain for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What's going on in JAT all this time? In JAT, only directors changed, but principles and operating manners remained the same. A new director came in, so he brought in a new marketing advisor, gave him a salary or contract and a fee for his jobs of 220,000 dinars, he can't pay him because he's already a working man, so he brought in three girls who deal with marketing, with salaries of 120 to 150 thousand dinars, so the new secretary of directors hired her son here, etc. Are we interested in whether these are the principles of ethical business or corporate governance? What are we paying for? What's covered with 51m euros? Really problems in technology or political and economic bachanals of leadership? Why would we accept all this? Who's healthy and normal can accept all that? The only ungrateful duty and obligation is to defend those you must defend. This is a scandal. Instead of taking action and investigating those who brought JAT where it is today, you give them a 51m-euro reward. Will the new strategic partner accept that he's paying back his debts? Of course not. They're not interested in debts. We take credit to take out two planes, and the study says, "In order for economic justification to exist in business, the fleet has to be restored and 10 new planes must be introduced. "It is in a study already done and written, in another study. And now we're looking for an advisor to do a third study on the cost of the state. We apologize, Mrs Dragutinović, but we can't support such things in madness. Instead of the government dealing with these problems in a responsible and serious way, the Government of Structural Reform works by selling Telecom. These are the real structural reforms in Serbia – to sell only the public enterprise that generates revenues. To make the irony bigger, then the Minister of Telecommunications comes forward and says -- out of the total mass achieved by selling Telecom, telecommunications in Serbia deserves to get 100m euros due to the promotion of the network. Who told them to keep the profits they'd made from improving the network? Not only are they not doing it, but they take and sell the only thing that's worth it and that makes sense in this country. Here again comes the story of advisors of privatisation, small groups, etc. You know exactly who they are, how many cheaters they are. How many billion dollars have they paid for the last five years for suspicious business transactions, moves, etc. It's sad, that's all. It is sad that both the public and the MPs have something that is a complete economic failure trying to present themselves to a reasonable and good solution. It doesn't occur to us to support something like this. As for the Agreement with the Chinese, we do not defend them because, nor will we support them, but we do not defend them because they are with the Chinese, but because they show that under completely different and more favourable credit conditions, money can be withdrawn and that the purpose of these withdrawals is fully justified and rational. We don't want to support money spending in anything. Mrs Dragutinovic, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we have no idea to support this, loans are unfavourable, loans are bad, whether they are necessary or not, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the public must know that the day of adoption of this will create the preconditions for the state to be additionally burdened with 300,000 euros directly, over 300m euros indirectly, and that these debts will be paid back by generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46236	The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46237	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us laws that further owe our country. Somehow, it became a practice for every two months we here to vote, or the ruling majority to vote a single 200-300m-euro debt, to remember "Serbiagas" 170m, to remember "The Way of Serbia", all this, Mrs Dragutinovic, is the consequence. I'd like to talk more about the causes. You said you voted in favour of the budget law, and all this is standing there, you expect us to now vote all that has already been voted once, and I have no doubt it will be voted. Those who voted in favour of the Budget Law will vote, those who did not vote doubt this will vote. We're in this second group, we didn't vote, so we certainly can't vote. Why? Because it is not disputed that the state should be in charge of certain circumstances and situations, but it is disputed why such spending of money and borrowing is taking place. Indeed, a year ago, we owe over a billion and a half euros to this country, which will be paid by children who are still underage. This is where we come to what the Liberal Democratic Party has been saying since the beginning. We need a more active and efficient state. There is a need to reduce public spending to below 40% of gross social product. Oh, God, let's get to 36 percent sometime. We need a whole new economy, a complete restructuring of our economy from import, addictive, export and economic. It's just that in these two years, the government hasn't done it, and she's had a chance. Next year is an election year and it is simply a practice that here in Serbia besides general consumption, personal consumption and investment consumption we have a kind of consumption that economic science does not know, but practice in Serbia knows, it's called pre-election spending. It is indisputable that next year we will enter this whirlwind of pre-election consumption, after all, we will see that when we get the budget for next year. It is clear that the fiscal responsibility law that we have adopted will hardly be fulfilled, with this borrowing and with what awaits us next year when pre-election spending goes wild, it is clear that what we have committed will not be fulfilled. You said the other day on the transfer issue and on the financing of local self-government openly, and it is fair to say, we will not respect the law on funding this year, we will not be able to send messages so that we do not pass laws that will objectively not be respected, humiliated and lower Serbia's rating. That's why these loans are expensive. But the restructuring of the economy didn't even begin, and that's the point. When we say that the government should have 12 ministries, it's just symbolic, it's not the essence of 12 ministries. The bottom line is that the state is withdrawing from the sector in which it is now arbitration, and that's how we're going to get to a cheaper state. We proposed to you at the beginning of the crisis measures for promotion and construction, there are a year and a few days, you eventually encouraged construction by abolishing public procurement and passing the Law to encourage construction where direct contracts with construction firms are contracted. What it is, but a kind of pre-election consumption and certainly that monopolies, a lot of regulations, forest regulations, even though someone from the government mentioned it several times, none of it happened. That's why there's no foreign investment. There are foreign investments by paying thousands of euros of taxpayers a job in some companies that are opening in Serbia with foreign capital. The point is that Serbian citizens pay their money to form a party that is emerging. It's just that it's no wonder we have this kind of borrowing and this kind of deficit, for example, that there are two ministers in the government who have two parties and it just costs making these parties. Nothing since restructuring of public enterprises is evidence of this second loan, because I will only talk about a 250m-euro loan that finances old debt and JAT credit. Simply, this deficit is the result of an inert, a feudal system that was introduced after Djindjic's murder in the first government after it, I'm talking about Kostunica's government when the shared ministries were vertical. We have this situation and today and simply, such a system generates consumption. Everyone pulls on their side, everyone wants money for their end, for their own area, and simply, this is the consequence. What's the next government going to do with all this credit and all this debt? I really don't know, everything's pushing itself into the future, like we're not going to live in this country, either as ministers who hope to stay, or as taxpayers. This is the Czech, at the end of this task and the formation of this government of yours. Remember those 10% pensions, those 500m euros and half a billion euros whose debt is due to this day. When we get the budget for next year, we'll just see the break-in that's waiting for us next year with the deficit refinanced, because as far as I know, the deficit shouldn't be 4%, it should be smaller. I'd like to see when he gets here, whether in the election year and growing pre-election spending will be possible. Here's an example, this second loan on this country's costs and this kind of economy controlled by this state, for example, in a JAT loan. You're asking us to approve $50 and a few million for JAT. You don't honestly say at any point why, let's say, training the fleet and working on engines worth 9.5m euros, and that's kind of understandable. The plane must have engines on both wings, so maybe someone's missing on one, so the other one should be bought. I'm kidding, but it's the only thing that's clear what it's for. A long-term loan contract for the lease of two planes, that's two million euros, to say it's clear as well. But 40m euros for the revitalization of the airline. That word is mentioned twice. What does that mean? I suppose a lot, but the MPs would have to know specifically, is it for crafts, is it for, since it's not for planes and engines, for something it is, is it for repaying debts? It's not, since it's guaranteed state. Now look at the absurd situation. If we put in a tender for JAT now, I doubt anyone would answer, and if he did, he would offer 50m euros. Remember that figure from a few years ago, speculation was that it was worth 100m euros as JAT, i.e. We thought JAT was worth 100 million euros. As my neighbor thought his apartment was worth 80,000 euros, but nobody ever gave him 80,000 euros, so he had to sell it for 65, so we thought it was 100 and it wasn't 100. Now we're going to be in charge, we're going to guarantee JAT's duty for a figure that is certainly greater than its value, and if we add JAT's debts, then it's really multiple. It is clear from this that this JAT loan will not return, but we, the taxpayers, or citizens who chose us, will return it. It's an example of the economy where the government is running away from restructuring. It is an example of an economy in which 580 public enterprises at Serbia level, two of which may be operating with a profit, and these 580 with a loss. Until it is cleared up and it is painful, it is difficult, it is unpopular, but simply if it is not done, we will have every year, but unfortunately every two months requests for new and new loans, new and new responsibilities, which will be passed on to the burden of future generations. Here in this explanation for JAT you say nicely that a company cleared of debts is trying to take over, a strategic partner or an institution partner we're after, to whom we're going to marry that JAT without debts. This means that debts will fall on the burden of state and taxpayers. This means that these new 50m euros for the revitalisation, for makeup, will also be burdened by taxpayers, i.e. citizens who pay taxes and those who will pay taxes in the future. It's an example of irresponsible behavior. The Liberal Democratic Party has been in favour since the beginning, even in that spending government, you remember, in 2006 for an agreement with the IMF, because simply this parliament is unable to control the government's spending of taxpayers' money. We thought they'd be more successful in that, and fortunately there was this agreement. If it wasn't for them, I don't know how many times the numbers would have been in these credit claims bigger than they are now. But next year, as I understand it, he won't be in agreement with the IMF, which is another argument for my thesis to go pre-election spending next year. This JAT loan may be needed to find JAT a strategic partner. I'm not getting into it, because I don't know the JAT balance, but it's certainly clear that this JAT loan won't pay back, and even less his strategic partner, because you yourself said that anyone who takes over the company is cleared of the debts. What would a strategic partner take company and repay debts for irrational consumption for generations, or decades back? Are these 50m euros, to which we essentially give this strategic partner, as these investments that appear here and there, and what is led by the economy minister, will we give thousands of euros for one job, so that people can get a job and join his new party, and all of us are paying for it? Whether this will lead to a strategic partner, I don't know, but in any case a credit for a company that will return the state, or citizens of Serbia, which is greater than its value, is really illogical from an economic point of view. Let's remind ourselves of two more facts, that last year JAT's loss was 25m euros, that this year may be a million or two smaller, but certainly over 20m euros. We are now adding another 50m euros to this company that is making so many losses to get married. There's something in the economy called rationality and price. It is that everyone cares about JAT finding a strategic partner, it was British Airlines or someone else, but this is really very expensive. On the other hand, you say in a statement of compliance with EU rules that there is in principle no similar example in the EU, so as not to violate EU rules. Technically, you may be right, but on the other hand, I must remind you that both competition and the Open Sky law do not allow the EU to be so much help to one company by the state. It happened, there are exceptions here and there, where countries have come to aid companies, but these companies have survived, and they haven't asked for a strategic partner. That money the state helped stay with the company. We're basically helping the company to be taken over by someone else. It's much better to bite into what's called a fundamental restructuring of the economy. I'm not saying that you can do this in a few days or a few weeks, but what we resent to you as Government is that you didn't even start this process in your term, and next year you certainly won't start it. Not to mention that everything on your government, this behavior, the spending of people's pairs of states that are expensive, and not efficient, didn't begin with your government, began the moment that the abandoned concept that existed in Djindjic's government, that parties, coalition partners control each other by dividing the ministries. The moment the first government of Kostunica introduced the principle of feudal division, we came to an ever more expensive and expensive state, as much cost and debt for future generations as possible. I hope that after the next election, citizens will choose and vote for the parties that will abolish this devastating feudal principle that practically raises the fat and expensive state at the expense of the poor citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46238	The word is Mr. Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46239	Mr. Chairman, if they can replicate Zoran Ostojic's exposure, and it concerns data, but not data, but an assessment that the economy ministry is giving thousands of euros for different projects. In the Croatian Parliament there is one specific point in the Rules of Procedure that says – correcting incorrect allegations. This is not with us, but I will now try to answer you specifically with numbers, and I think this is a good opportunity because more than once in Parliament and in the public, there has been speculation about how much money has been given and what the effects of all this are, making sure that Serbia is not the only country in crisis today and that all modern countries in crisis play a much greater role in the country than it is in normal times. Because of you, Mr Ostojić, because I know that you are a very serious MP and also for the citizens of Serbia, to say that the total number of approved projects, as financial support for investors in Serbia, are 114, and that the total value of investment projects, which is thus given to Serbia, i.e. the amount of funds invested, 635.1m euros, is the total amount of appropriations from the Government of the Republic of Serbia 47.3m euros and therefore the number of new jobs is 17.194. With a very easy bill, we will reach the average amount of incentives per job of 2,486,8 euros. Just a little more data. So, the number of new jobs opened in different districts thanks to the incentives given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 1,161 new jobs were opened in the Danube district, 1,215 new jobs were opened in the Mačvan County, 1,500 new jobs were opened in Toplička County, 1,554 new jobs were opened in Jablani County, 830 new jobs were opened in the Western District. And I'm going to say one more thing, that's it, the number of new jobs around the country of origin of investors is also interesting, because here it's always talking about giving funds to some foreign companies, which I don't think is bad again. Therefore, the number of new jobs originating in the country of origin of investors Serbia 6,782, Germany 3,761, Italy 2,860, UK 333, South Korea 1,024 etc. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46240	Is this what I need to realize now that you don't want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46241	Mr President-in-Office, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, this is one topic that causes great interest and certainly that in the National Assembly it is not easy to defend the draft law on government borrowing and it is certainly a subject that cannot bring you political points. Certainly, it is not something any ruling coalition party can use as an asset in the election campaign and say it is good. What is a fact, it is that Serbia, along with other countries in the environment, the EU, and the whole world, lives in times of severe economic crisis, in which the state must react, so as not to have a complete breakdown of the national economy. If the country that has the strongest economy today in the world, which is the United States, reacted during the economic crisis and out of the state budget, has given hundreds of billions of dollars to prevent the collapse of the financial system, not because someone there loved banks that came to the brink of financial collapse, but because the collapse of these investment banks would lead to the complete collapse of the American, hence and world economy, then it is likely that in times of crisis and other countries, including Serbia, much more intervention than it was or will be in some happier and better economic times. Politically, I think that no government, no finance ministry or any other, has gone out more transparent in the last few years in front of MPs and citizens, explaining both the budget and budget rebalances and budget audits and additional funding needs, so that's how it is today. Certainly, the need for the government to take commercial loans from banks is not the happiest solution. In some theory, it would be better if the state of Serbia had an international bond, if it could broadcast it on the international market and in such a way that it is in debt, but it seems to me that our credit risk is still high, so that the debt instrument of the state is not yet available to us. We also entered the zone when the broadcast of the state vault records, due to the fluctuation on the exchange rate, is no longer such an attractive investment opportunity and the state has turned to the only possibility at this time, which is to raise commercial loans. In this way, by additional borrowing, we increase the state's level of debt compared to the social product. According to data from the finance ministry site, the rate is about 38%. With the fiscal responsibility law, we have come to the solution that the state should not be in debt more than 45%, without restitution, in relation to the social product. It is certainly necessary to look at the past and say that in 2000 the state's level of debt in relation to the social product was 169.3%, that in 2001 it was 102.2%, that in 2007, when the world economy was at its peak, the economic situation in Serbia was significantly better, that was 29.4%, and that this year we are approaching the figures of 40%. So, of course, that's not a popular measure and that's not the measure that the government or the Ministry of Finance has brought with enthusiasm. Anyway, if you adopt the budget, you have to realise that budget. I think that the Serbian government has taken a lot of steps over the past period to reduce its consumption, reduce state spending, and we have practically reached a point where there is no longer the possibility of a short-term reduction in consumption, which would free us from the resources we need to implement the budget. Of course, in some subsequent period, if this government or any subsequent government follows a programme of economic reforms that implies that this country is changing over the next 10 years and that from some country that is based on import and consumer growth of the economy, it becomes a country where exports will account for 65% of the social product, where growth will be based on exports, but that is something that is a projection, it is something that is the desire of all of us, but it needs to be reacted to the situation in which we are today. I believe that one rational analysis must also give recognition to the measures that the Serbian government has done over the past two years, because you cannot live beyond what is the situation in the environment, what is the situation in many EU countries, where the degree of public debt in relation to the social product has crossed some criteria from Mastricht, which is 60%. Of course there's a question here why we're in charge, whether it's for some liquid consumption or for investment, but at this point in time, in that sense, the state has room to improve the consumption structure in the next period. So not only can the amount or volume of that consumption be reduced, but certainly that structure can change over some subsequent period. It represents, unfortunately or fortunately, but it is the reality and relationship of the political forces and it has been in this government and in some previous one, and it will be in every subsequent government, until Serbia comes into a situation that, for example, one party runs the government, and then it can fully implement its political programme, in accordance with its economic doctrine, and it certainly will not happen in another medium term. I think that's why we need to support this bill and we're going to vote for it, because it's something that's very transparent and clear, these are the conditions that the government has received. I think that we on the Finance Committee were also properly informed of the way in which the whole procedure was carried out about the participants. At the very least, all MPs and the public have been informed of the conditions under which the state is in charge. What is a danger in this part of borrowing is the fact that this debt, practically, is in euros and that what was a risk for banks, when we talk about buying vault records, so changing the exchange rate, is now a danger over the state and in some future, since it is an obligation to return the amount that is in the euro. Certainly, a more serious change in exchange rate will add to our budget, but this does not mean that the current exchange rate policy is not good. The exchange rate is in some way an image of the situation in which our economy is located and, regardless of what its oscillations are causing logical disturbance, primarily citizens and businesses, I think the policy run by the National Bank is absolutely justified at this point. It's been shown in the past two years. Due to such foreign exchange policy, however, the decline in economic activity in Serbia was lower than some other countries in the region. What is in the next period of government and all of us, is, above all, better management of the resources that we all have together, both government and local self-government. The adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which forces us to enter the situation by 2015 that the deficit is no more than one percentage of the social product, is a roof solution that represents a quantitative restriction on our spending. What is a challenge in the coming period and I think it is also a job waiting for us on the way to EU accession, that is the quality of spending. So it's not just about quantity, how much money we're going to spend, but what we spend on for what purposes it serves us and what the effect of every dinar that's being paid out of the budget is on the budget. That's why it was important for me to present this information in the part that was reserved for replication. In that sense, I'd say something about this second loan. So, the minister said a lot in the opening statement on the guarantee that the state provides for the borrowing of JAT Airways, our airline, but I don't think it would be bad in the future if the Finance Committee and MPs in the process of making a decision on loans given by the state, for example for guarantees from public enterprises, had insight into the plan of spending these funds, in the balance sheet of success, in the cash flow of these companies. There are no great experts here who could talk about it, but we want to know what the idea is and how these funds will be spent. We need to know the risk that there is that the state guarantee for the debt of a public undertaking in some future period becomes a commitment of the state, because it is clearly specified in the contract that if a public undertaking cannot repay its debt, that debt will have to be recovered by the state. If we let that public company be in debt without a guarantee of the state on the financial market, I'm not sure if they could be in charge at all, let alone under conditions that are practically in debt to the state. So, I don't think it would hurt all of us to have more information and arguments that would give us an additional argument that we would support such laws, that we would support such responsibilities, and that is why I'm glad that in our opening statement, the finance minister said a lot more about it than we could ever hear on the Finance Committee. So I believe that both in the coming period and in this particular debate day, we will also get some additional information that will strengthen us in giving guarantees for such a public enterprise's debt is part of the strategy to get this public enterprise out of the position it has been in over the past few years, that this is also part of perhaps some future restructuring of the company, attracting a foreign partner, etc. It is very important that we know that this is not some extortional move that should only currently put out the fire or fire that broke out, and that there is no bigger story or broader idea of what it will be like, because if our guarantee is a fire-fighting guarantee, and if in a few years it turns out that the guarantee becomes an obligation of the state, we or anyone else who, after this ruling coalition, makes decisions, will be much more difficult to make it possible in the future for some justified guarantees to get support in the Serbian Parliament. It would be very important for this loan and for some future when the state is guaranteed we have this one debate that would give us some kind of a broader picture of what the idea is, because we will all admit, 51.5m euros is not small. After all, we have an entire debate on the state's debt of 250m euros. So certainly, the way it is spoken in Serbia about the state's debt in the last two years is one step forward, high pressure and media and some NGOs and professional public. And the fact that our country has an agreement with the IMF, I think it is, however, one framework that even gives some opposition MPs space to say a good word about what the government and the Ministry of Finance have been doing over the past two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46242	The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić. You have the right to a replica, if that's the point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46243	Yeah, that's the point. By the way, I wanted to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, two minutes of replicas, but good. Col. Senic, I'm glad you pulled the average and essentially taxpayers fund foreign investors with an average of around 2,500 euros. But there were some examples where it's much more, but it's average. You know how, in Italy they say -- there goes Fiat to Serbia, because they can't believe how much money Fiat got here from taxpayers and incentives. Malten, there's a crowd between unions and workers. It's just, the big money's getting separated, and I just wanted to say it's expensive. On the side of the party, but it is also important that there are much more effective methods of attracting foreign investment, and they concern building a rule of law, guillotine regulations, etc., rather than arresting a man in the Ministry of Economy who is the leader of some kind of mob that steals from gas stations. He's a man who's in charge of measuring and measuring units, gambling and all that, and to arrest dozens of pump owners who stole 20% on paid fuel. I remind you, six or seven people from the Start-up Loans Fund were almost arrested. And as for JAT, I've heard from an association -- you have a 2,000-euro car, it's worth so much, you can sell it at the market, then you take it and invest 8,000 euros in it and sell it for three. I don't know if it's a good job, but it doesn't look good to me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46244	Mr. Senic, to answer and let's finish, please. Focus on what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46245	As far as Fiat is concerned, you are well aware that the most expensive production of Fiat is in Italy. In Italy, it's not just a matter of economics, you know, it's a company and a company that comes from Italy. It is not easy to decide now that full production is dislocated from Italy. When we talk about Fiat, you must know, and you know well, that Serbia has given several hundred million euros in the Kragujeva flag, also taxpayers' money, just to preserve social peace. We had a choice between continuing to put out the taxpayers' money social peace, not having new jobs, not having new production, not having new production models, or encouraging with less money the arrival of a strategic partner and opening a perspective for car production to become a strategic branch of exports, Serbian exports, which is hopefully the success that we all need to respect. It's not about one political party, it doesn't think anyone could have done it by one political party, it's the result of the work of all the people in charge of the economy and we don't want to take credit for ourselves and say, because of our party, 200,000 cars will be exported to Serbia in two years, but it's certainly better to give incentives per job to open up a factory that will export 200,000 cars than to put out a social fire. As for this arrest, to inform you and then to leave you a document during the session, it is precisely at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy of 2009 by letter to the Ministry of Economy, Ivica Dacic, asked to launch an investigation that has resulted in this arrest and we welcome it, and any other arrest of people who abuse their official position, whether or not they are members of any political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46246	According to Article 96(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled and uniform search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, Forward Serbia, DSS and the SRS. The first person to enter the word and get the word is Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46247	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been insisting for two and a half years on a clear definition of a political concept that will allow for an effective solution to problems in our society and economy. Two and a half years as LDP offers solutions in the economic sphere, and the government ignores those solutions, which puts us in a position to be just silent observers of the last act of a project that has condemned itself to failure. It is no wonder that even in the opening presentation and presentation of certain MPs of the ruling coalition, we could not hear answers today to those economic issues raised by Serbian citizens and opposition MPs. These issues are mostly summed up -- as long as it came to the IMF talks, what are the basic criticisms of the IMF on the draft budget rebalances and on the 2011 draft budget? Did the state resort to borrowing because the sale of government bonds did not achieve the expected effects? Is it true that RS will reach 40% of the public debt of the gross social product by the end of the year? Also, one basic question is raised – is it possible that Serbia, which has estimated that the ruling coalition's largest investment per newly opened job for foreign investment, has had about the same level of foreign investment as Montenegro since early 2010, which is 15 times smaller than Serbia? All these are the answers the public expects from the government and from representatives of the ruling coalition. We insist and say that in the economy, as well as in politics, trust is often more important than dry figures. Of this confidence in the government's economic policy, unfortunately, there is no today and there is no economic study that can provide that trust, both foreign investors and citizens in Serbia. Also, individual ministers, or individual representatives of ruling political parties, bomb us often by social demagogy that the state will solve all the economic problems that citizens face, although precisely the wrong moves made by the government and those ministers have prevented any serious investment in Serbia. So today, it should not be surprising that we then see pictures of Serbia-bound workers in, for example, "Skra Metal" in Novi Pazar, who are trying to secure the payment of those fees they believe are owed by the state, an amount of 11 million dinars, or students of the Academy of Arts here in Belgrade, which block the university, asking for 30 scholarships to continue Master's studies. No one believes today that it is possible for this country, this government, to provide eight times the foreign investment in the coming year of investments invested this year, as individual ministers are predicting and proposing and thus saying that Serbia will finally start from the economic crisis it is in. We need to make it clear here that the Serbian government knows for who knows which way the second government will repay, which is the grace period and these loans we are talking about today in the beginning of 2012 and during 2012, that is, some new government will have to return what the government is spending on its failed political projects. There is no word here in these loans about what is extremely important for LDP, and these are young people, it is an investment in the education system, which should enable education that will allow young people to find a simple way of finding a job. As a result, we are witnessing that most of the funds taken from these loans have been used to turn the government into social cases that will depend entirely on the ministerial will, when they come to the party counter for some of their belongings. For LDP, as the most important economic measure in the next period, and on this we will as a persistent opposition, the economic opposition to this government to insist, which is: lower taxes on first jobs for young people up to 35 years, easier to buy first apartment, write off ten euros in debt for citizens by one NIS action, zero VAT rate on basic food, efficient agrarian. All of these are the measures that the LDP has been talking about so far, but there was no hearing in the RS government to accept. In the end, I'm going to say something about this law that gives 50m euros for JAT's loan, guarantees. We must clearly say that through this law, Serbian citizens should pay for the inability to manage public enterprises by politically appointed directors. We did not get an answer, nor will we get, in the neighbourhood following this law JAT will be, or whether we will have a better company, more efficient and whether we will finally end the party management of public enterprises, because from month to month, laws are coming here in the Serbian Parliament to grant loans to prevent the debt crisis of public enterprises, created by party personnel set up by the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46248	Six minutes of Parliament time. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are almost out of order and we do not have a few laws on it that mean new borrowing or new guarantees from the RS. It's a little frustrating to repeat the same story about Serbia being over-indebted. Today, all citizens in Serbia know the government itself, the MPs of the opposition, the MPs of the government, but unfortunately we have a government that has no power to change economic policy to find a solution to getting out of this economic crisis, to define itself as a different model of growth. And on this agenda we are faced with six laws that mean the continuation of this RS borrowing policy, its economy, its citizens. The most eyed thing, for us from the SNS, is the fact that the RS owes 250m euros, which is about a hundred and more euros each family in Serbia, without interest. Then, after this grace period, what it will be, we will see, that all of this will mean a decline in the standards of Serbian citizens, that all of this will affect the further indifference of the economy, which is not in such a great situation. The reason for borrowing is disastrous for us. It is, first of all, the coverage of the budget deficit, regardless of how long it was only a month ago, a month and a half ago we had a law where the government committed itself to fiscal responsibility, the change of the Budgetary System Act, where it accepted the obligation not to exceed 45% of the GDP, and here after a month you kind of give up everything you've accepted. You show inconsistencies, you put us in a position to increase this debt to the public debt of the state, to indirectly demonstrate irresponsibility and when it comes to international institutions, particularly the IMF, which you swear to. Just a month ago, a month and a half ago, information came from the government that we're going to rebalance the budget, that we're going to have 60m euros in that budget that we're going to share with socially vulnerable groups, that individual ministries aren't some investment arrangements they've had and that there's room to fix the standard of some socially endangered groups. Today it's obvious that what you told us a month and a half ago isn't true, that those 5,000 dinars that the pensioners got are all they can expect at this point, probably until New Year's, not just them, but all the other socially endangered groups. It is saddened that the most poor are the burdens of this economic crisis. Almost two years ago, we had a law passed in this assembly that was supposed to reduce the number of administrative workers, so state bureaucracy, to reduce the amount of public finances. It was a dead letter on paper, and today across the back of pensioners, over the back of those most endangered, those who most often cannot help themselves state and the IMF are trying to cut budget expenditures and leave enough funds to pay off those loans that came for payment, which we talked about in the previous period. It is unfortunate that this law shows that its economic policy is unsustainable. In the previous year, we had, first of all, the government's borrowing through securities of value. It is obvious that the exchange rate, which has become extremely unstable, that inflation that becomes a growing problem, macroeconomic instability, which affects us from several aspects, affects that banks are not ready to buy securities of value, which the state emits. I think that in the last year of 2010 in fact, over a billion euros has been reduced by the investment of banks in securities of value, and that, in parallel with that, you had to intervene with more than two billion euros to maintain the level of foreign exchange rate. So it's obvious that we have an economic policy that's unsustainable, that the situation in Serbia is getting worse from day to day, regardless of what you're trying to convince us that the situation is getting better and better and that you're in one panicky fear. I think that's another serious reason, so banks could eventually reduce their credit exposure. The Vienna deal you made two years ago is about to expire. Banks without government loans, without the kind of interest that the state provides, have no interest in staying on our market, and would likely start a large number of these banks, which are essentially only savings banks or banks that are there to put these countries in transition in a position to return most of those loans they have taken back to the countries they have given them. So we have a very bad situation in our economy and it is unacceptable, in the SNS' view, to go further. We have to go to a reduction in public spending, which is obviously not the government's intention and that's what it is for every conviction. As for the second law my colleagues talked about, it refers to JAT, a guarantee the government gives for a 50 million loan, I think we have double arches, that we have dozens of enterprises that are in restructuring, that many of them have to beg at the Privatisation Agency to grant them to take some minimum loans so that as much as some craftsmen have and preserve production, they save some of that kind of pay. On the other hand, you have companies that are also in the restructuring process, which so easily take 50m euros in credit, and this is not the only loan JAT has taken. They were in the previous period, if you remember the agenda of this congregation, and besides, I'd agree with those colleagues, we're taking credit without even knowing why we're taking it ourselves. Because, as you said, to privatize JAT, the question is whether it's just a privatisation goal, because I hear from different ministries that different news is coming about what the JAT strategy is, whether we're going to get a new national carrier or going to privatise, I don't think that thing is completely clear, but in any case it goes to new responsibilities. Those duties will have to be paid by Serbian citizens. You said yourself that JAT can only be privatized in the future if there is no debt. He's already dealing with losses. There's no way we can get these loans back today. The state, the taxpayers will have to, will have to, the citizens of Serbia. You've separated the secondarys from the main actions, but the shift in JAT's business is gone, he's still operating with extremely large losses. As I said, in my opinion, and I believe in all my SNS colleagues, there is no clear strategy on where JAT is going, where Serbia's airports go, where flight control is going. These are three segments that are extremely important for air traffic. I would end up with the finding of all opposition MPs, as far as I have seen, that further borrowing is unacceptable, that with such a policy it is impossible to ensure that Serbia's citizens' standards are improved, the recovery of our economy, and that these and these laws, at the height of public debt, with the state of GDP being very slowly corrected and the question is whether the next year will reach that level from 2008, are unacceptable and we will certainly vote against these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46250	Ten minutes of MP time was used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46251	Mr. Novakovic, I will try not to repeat what the public knows, what my views are. Unfortunately, today we can only realize that radicals are by who knows which way is right. As of January 25th, 2001, the crash and collapse of the Republic of Serbia began, thanks to DOS, regardless of its aggregate state. The only political party to strongly oppose the so-called political party. The economic policy of newly-roasted Eurofanatics was the SRS. I point that out with great pride, although I note that the Democrats are not laughing. They usually laugh when I put out those reviews. The natural consequence is that you are heading west, and then Bozidar Djelic brings a banker from Bangladesh to give us an example of a bank for the poor. You promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia banks for the rich. Don't take it out on poor people's banks now. Probably some brilliant DOS mind can come up with an epochal solution from Biafra, so you can represent it as a European standard and a European average. Your policy has led to the fact that the economy mostly does not exist, the public debt is constantly growing, and it's not just you, it's all those capitalists that were in these governments. It's not your fault there's no electricity, water and phone. There have been those since 2004, 2005, in 2006, whose debts you inherited, which are incriminatingly critical of you. Not all of Serbia's problems started in July 2008, began on October 5th 2000, when you set fire to this building, and even this system of communication does not work because there is an affair that has not yet been resolved. Today, it owes 11.622 billion euros. It's so-called. public debt. Is that 38%, 32%, 40%, 60%, absolutely irrelevant. Why doesn't it matter? Because empty pockets are very important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You've shown what your policy is like. What kind of transfers to other levels of government – 151 municipalities, including in 90 and several municipalities, are Democrats in power, moaning at the government of the Republic of Serbia. So Kramer versus Kramer, the Democrats against the Democrats. The only one who doesn't show is Dragan Gilas. He takes a picture next to the kindergarten, but he must not go out and say that heating will cost 30% more, because it is not an "in" within the campaign he leads for his party needs. Today I have prepared, Mrs Dragutinović, your documentation from the State Aid Authority, not to read to you. They appeal to the government and to all others who need to address the administration before, not to address the administration, but to have to lead the procedure afterwards in order to legalise what the government and all others are doing. You admit it yourself, I don't want to remind you any further. But when we look at what the economic movements of DOS are, no matter how much you changed the methodology for calculating GDP in 2001 to show how successful you are, because you've turned everything before that into something that's absolutely zero, that story can't go away. Let's see what the finance ministry says in its analysis – real trade turnover minus 5%. Travellers' night minus 15%. Construction work minus 19%. Number of employees minus 3.5%. Number of unemployed persons minus 2.1%. That's not true. Why isn't it true? Because at this session we have several agenda points where these statistics appear and they appear at a completely different amount. You said here the unemployment rate is 19.2%. Mladjan Dinkic says it is 27%. You don't seem to be reading the same documents. If I were to go in this order of yours to mention what went down, it is said – the insolvency of the company is on the rise with the problem of the collection of claims, while the labour market is constrained with employment opportunities and the increase of earnings, which generates growth of poverty. Are you boasting or criticizing? Who's at the beginning of the debt chain? The Republic of Serbia. How much do you owe to the Court of Justice, or the Supreme Court building? How much do you owe? You owe 500 billion dinars. Who'd you sink it all to? All epochal results – predictable by the wrong path, wrong policy and wrong aspirations. Since there is a customs office in this set of laws, Mrs Dragutinovic, I would only draw your attention, you, your government, Boris Tadic, as you talk about red lines, and those who call for elections and those who say – let the citizens determine whether they will go to the elections themselves, only the SRS urged them never to go to the Kosovo elections. In 2004, Tadic invited them, in 2007, some parties that were in power and even the Orthodox Church. Only the radicals said never go to that election. I'll tell you now. In order to cultivate good neighbourly relations, you must accept the customs declaration of an independent state of Kosovo, Mrs Dragutinovic. The customs administration is within your ministry. It's a condition that's dictated to you today, and you talk about the lines, talk about the election, talk about whatever you want. If you accept that customs declaration, you have accepted an independent Kosovo. Just to remind you what will be all the tragic results of this ghastly move of Eurofanatism. It won't help you either Montgomery or this English outgoing ambassador, and he'll stay here because he hasn't finished his dirty work, like Montgomery can't go back to America. You can make whatever coalition agreements you want, demonstrate your coalition capacities, you can't solve this problem. This problem is insecure. Especially because you have consciously entered the destruction of everything that is positive in the Republic of Serbia. The average pension is 19,838 dinars. It was relatively reduced this year by 3.7% compared to 2009. Remember those of you who said that pension would be 70% of the average salary. How many people work today to support a pensioner? There's a pensioner who's got 1.1 employees. Well done. You've done well. What happened to Jumka? Where's the guy who got state aid to open up jobs? Escaped abroad. With what? Parama. Whose money? Tax taxpayers. Did you get some credit from the EU to open up a job? No, I don't. You've been given a pass route and communication to make EU goods go as best as possible. Let me give you the information on how reduced the inflow is based on customs -- 66m euros. You're saying in your report that your data is bad because of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Let me remind you, you praised it as something epochal that opens the perspective of the Republic of Serbia. But you didn't say that this perspective would be minus 66m euros only this year. How's the borrowing? There's a lot of comments here, people are saying things, and they know and they don't know, so I don't use another term. But, look, in your short-term borrowing, you forced state records with short deadlines of up to six months. Here's something Mrs. Dragutinović did. It's like this: 14. Ten. 2010 At an auction of six-month state records of the Republic of Serbia held on 14 October, you sold... "and so on 14 April 2011, the interest rate is 12.6% on an annual basis. Dear gentlemen, listen now. Same thing, only 28 October 2010. Allocation on 28 April 2011. Interest rate 12.8%. You're going on long-term borrowing when it comes to these banks. We have three banks with 10 million each, two banks with 20 million euros, one bank with 30 million and, of course, that bank that does everything here, which is the Intheza Bank. It's the one that's funding everything. It's an untouchable bank. How is it possible that there are different interest rates in this bill? Let me explain. So, for 10m euros, one bank is paid interest per euro and a fixed interest margin of 4.25. For the same loan at another bank, all the same thing is the interest rate of 5%. At the third bank, that's 5.20%. Then it goes on – 5.25, then 5.30 etc. What did you do on the financial market? Did you notify the commission when you asked for your assignment? Why are you in charge? Where will this money be used? Explain to me what you're going to use that money for. To pay off your pensions? For social aid? For capital investments? Please, you've written a rule on what conditions credit can be provided through public procurement. Your regulation, but you don't respect it. You don't want to respect him. You don't care about any of that. The epochal discovery at JAT - the plane has to have two wings to fly. Every wing should have a motor. JAT has several planes that don't have a left wing engine. Let's take a 9.5m-euro loan to buy a left wing engine. And then the geniuses figured out -- we're going to transfer all our debts to one company, we're going to destroy that company, and that's what you Serbian citizens are going to pay for, and then we're going to sell this other. For how long? Zoran Ostojic said three million. Maybe a million euros. What do you care? You didn't create anything. You have come to power to destroy this country. You don't choose the means to tear it apart. Imagine yesterday, the president of Serbia remembered brilliantly – the state did not pay because there is no money. A genius. He can take part in the puzzle. He used to love this gym, and now he doesn't like it anymore, ever since Veljko Odalovic said he was going to crash, so he's running to that old building over there. What are you guys doing? Do you think we're just gonna watch you destroy our country? We won't, Mrs. Dragutinović. We've been fighting you for ten years. We keep warning you, criticizing you, making suggestions. Not only to you, but to all the capitalists who had exchanged here for ten years, and those who delivered to The Hague the tribunal, and those who were in debt, and those who made surpluses and deficits, "abracadabra" overnight, you came to one to one point. One pensioner is supported by one worker with a fist on his right hand, that's 0.1. What are you proud of? The European way? What is this European road? That story exists until you deliver Mladic and Hadzic. There's nothing after that. There's no European way. He's gone. Did you forget about that, maybe? They'll give us theoretical lectures, and a gross social product, and so many of your concepts that you teach to kids at college, etc. Go down to the people and see what's going on. Now you're comfortable with Chinese customs containers, and in 2000, you didn't even get the drugs. Everything suits you, just grab it, pull it. And you're acting like Drp B92. Of course you'll find coalition partners for that policy. It's all those who are pro-European parties. And even the ones that would have gone 600 km faster than you. Where? It's like someone's asking? He asks if Serbia will be in the EU or not. They give you false hope to encourage you to destroy Serbia as best as possible because they are expensive planes. It is easier with this infantry they installed in Serbia. That's the truth. Where are your red stripes? Why didn't you set red lines when it comes to citizens' standards? Why didn't you set red lines when it came to job protection? No, there's no such thing as red lines, because it's not European. What's European about you? Just brag about this Europe, but I don't see this Europe living in such misery as it is in Serbia. And they encourage you, thank you. It is important that we have agreed on those issues that we do not agree on, but we move on. How far are you going to keep going? Tadic goes to Republika Srpska and supports national leader Dodik, who is against the EU, and then comes to Belgrade and falls apart against everything that is Serbian. This is our problem, citizens of Serbia, which we have the wrong driver – Misko. The mouse rides with his eyes closed one bus. We won't put up with you anymore. No longer can the citizens of Serbia support what you are doing. They can't support what you're doing. You are too expensive for the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All of you DOSs since 5 October 2000, all of you pro-European, you pro-Europeanly destroyed this Serbia. The sooner the citizens realize it, the easier it'll be for them and they'll get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46252	15 minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46253	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already had the same thing happening before us in this room. We have before us laws, i.e. proposals to which the state of Serbia owes or guarantees the borrowing of certain public enterprises. As usual, as a scapegoat, I apologize for that expression, but the fact is, they send you, Mrs Dragutinovic. As usual, the ruling majority, what's now three or four of them in the O.R., has no intention of giving any answer, any meaningful explanation of why these borrowings, but usually, on your shoulders all the legitimate criticisms of the opposition come. Of course, I do not agree with these anti-European attitudes that were just a moment ago and blaming Serbia's European aspirations for these problems, but these problems that are now searing you and leading us to this great debt have resulted in a great deal of incompetence, inability and, above all, shortsightedness of the government in which you sit as finance minister. Mrs Dragutinovic, I say this for a simple reason that all the criticisms that the LDP has made over the past two and a half years in terms of finance and economy in this country have not come across any echoes by the government, including you personally. We were trying to get you with the proposals that we went out with and that we delivered to the government itself, which we delivered here in the Assembly to all parliamentary groups, with requests to schedule extraordinary sessions of the Assembly, because the situation is so economical and financial in the state. We have never received a confirmed answer, i.e. a general desire for conversation and dialogue, in order to come up with the best solution. We expected to hear something today, as my colleague Kenan Hajdarevic said and about what's going on with the IMF negotiations, as long as it's arrived, what are the things that we do, and I can guess which IMF resents us, or I can assume the ungrateful position you're in. It's probably a large number of those commitments taken by our government, and in negotiations with the IMF, they're not usually fulfilled, and you have to blush there for others. That, again, is your problem that you agreed to it. We always have a chance to listen to social demagogues in front of the ruling majority, and above all, government. We, if they remember my colleagues well, and I believe they remember, first heard from the government that the global economic crisis is going to pass us by. Then we heard that the global economic crisis will bring us benefits, so that in the end this global economic crisis, as we heard from the prime minister, will pass, and that Serbia is currently the leader in this part, that is, this region and so we have the best economic growth. I have to agree with some predecessors that I really don't know where we live, or whether we live in the same country and in the same environment. I must say that on many occasions we have made public calls for a change in policy that would lead this country out of the difficult economic situation it is in. Number one, you know we're proposing that VAT be abolished for basic supplies. I remember your comments well when we proposed a reduction in contributions, where you said it wasn't a guarantee, if we cut employee contributions, then there would be more registered employees. Unfortunately, unfortunately, I don't agree with you for the simple reason that a state that doesn't even pay for the electricity it spends must bear part of the burden in this situation as well as citizens. Let's make it a little easier for citizens to live a little easier, so that the state can take a little burden, to bear a little burden and traders, and to reduce the margins and to make those margins, at one point, when you were able to abolish public procurement in one law, when you were able in another law to give the possibility of a trade minister to determine where to build up to 2,000 square meters in Serbia, let's bring a "lex specialis" in which we're going to freeze the trade margins at 7%. Let's do something that will help these citizens in this difficult situation at least a little bit. We gave you a proposal -- one NIS action, 10 euros in debt to the citizens to write off. Come on, this country that sues citizens, you have a large number of citizens who have the opportunity to pay for basic communals, and then it's hard to fill the refrigerator, and you have a part of the citizens who can't even pay for those communals, and there's shares of NIS, let's write off the debt. People are desperate. They sell what little they have, so they can pay for the basic communals they've collected over the past month. What we've been telling you for a year now, it's our proposal to introduce VAT payments at the collection of claims. You must in some way enable businesses, allow those who provide services, to survive. We really came into a situation, and I have to make a paradigm from the day I worked in the IRS, so one of my chiefs said about taxpayers, of course, nothing in a bad context, he said – that taxpayers are not allowed to slaughter, but only to cut hair. That's what you do to our business now and to those who provide services. Literally, it's an ugly expression, but you put them in a situation that they couldn't survive. Everything stops in this country. Let's do some of the things the LDP suggested, and it doesn't have to be known that the LDP suggested them. Let's sit down and talk, maybe we're wrong. Maybe the zero rate is unsustainable, but let's cut the VAT rate for basic foods. It may be impossible at the moment because of the state of the country and filling the state register of the Republic of Serbia to introduce this measure, meaning paying VAT to collect claims, and perhaps possible. Let's sit down and talk about it. Of course, we suggested that a number of taxes for the first job for under 35 years, some things that in every normal state, just one more sentence, Mr. Novakovic, which is in a difficult situation, because the state also needs to meet citizens. I don't consider you the most responsible person, but I find you responsible because you agree to conduct such a policy, where you are pushed as a scapegoat in a situation where no one else will sit next to you or defend any proposal. Just one more sentence, please tell us how much did Serbia guarantee this year for public borrowing companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46254	This time is foreseen for the LDP parliamentary group spent. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46255	Respected Serbian citizens, respected colleagues, Madam Minister, indeed have no agenda, however many points it is, that at least two are not borrowing, which is from commercial banks, which is from international financial institutions. I am really wondering why the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is to amend and supplement the Law on the Budgetary System, where we have introduced some new elements that were basically supposed to have no fiscal advice and no job of some new experts that would be better than the Ministry itself, which I doubt, to assess whether or not we could be in charge, was the point of assessing whether we should be in charge at all, in order not to overrun the debt of this spending on the back of future generations. So what is the point of the IMF insisting on fiscal responsibility, if we are talking about three new loans today, one 250m euros, another 51m euros, but what brings them together is a common line, is that for this government they are not a burden, because the grace period, the period of rest, coincides with the authority of the current coalition, and the return of these loans goes to the burden of the future government which, with these results, I am prepared, not to predict, but to base itself, will not be in this composition. What is the right of this government to impose obligations on the next one, to leave obligations to the next generations, because loans are paid at five and six years, and to actually cover the deficits or debts of the public company JAT that don't actually work in a way that makes the profits worthwhile. The point of every human life is to achieve some kind of happy life. Any purpose of a government is to satisfy not only its appetites, but to do as much as possible to happy and citizens where the government manages public affairs. When I say happiness, I don't think about some immaterial thing that we're going to be assessing the limit of what we have, or what we can materially or spiritually give ourselves, but as a fear of whether we can welcome tomorrow without thinking about whether we have a job or we're going to lose it, how much because of the poorly-run monetary policy we have bigger credit wars, how much because of the poor-led economic policy we have a problem with uncovered imports, with the falsely displayed GDP, or how much our children will say – in this country I don't want to live, because there's no respect for college, no knowledge, no work in it. These laws that we're discussing today are, I thought, the highlight of the irresponsible government, that yesterday I didn't hear a statement where the president found out that the accounts of the authority, the state he represents, were not paid, and that at least once he looked at the Republic Assembly, he would have had the opportunity to hear that we MPs of the opposition and the MPs of the SNS warn you that the state must settle its debts to suppliers, contractors, not dreaming of living alone in a state that doesn't pay for its monthly demands, in terms of what electricity is, heating, telephones, etc. Believe me, I thought I was living in a state where nothing could surprise me, but yesterday I was quite surprised, but I'm actually aware that before the elections that are being postponed, but which can't be delayed within the regular time period, I'm trying to prepare the public for the state to be the biggest debtor and the most insolent debtor. So, the story in the paper is going to come out, everyone's gonna be full of surprises, but this people will be used to it until the election, where they'd have to punish such irresponsible authority, used to the state asking citizens to pay her all their dues, and when they're late to pay interest, they don't actually pay their own debts to companies for what they spend, but they don't pay those who order on individual contracts to do some work for her. That's exactly why as a state you got worse terms for these loans from the business banks, from the public enterprise you guarantee for the loan taken. JAT is due under conditions where a fixed margin is 3.95 plus a three-month eurobor, so plus one-time costs of 0.20, plus a fine of 0.50 for early repayment of credit, but the state we didn't know about until yesterday didn't get credit under conditions, a fixed interest margin of 4.25 of one bank, of the other 5, of the third 5.20, of the fourth 5.30%. Can you explain to me what kind of state it is, what is the reputation of a state that fails to negotiate more favourable conditions, and has a paw over the budget and has the right to ask citizens to pay for all obligations and to spend first on what it needs from that budget, to enable one member of the coalition to create a new party, to adopt laws politically motivated by the survival of certain parties in political life, not the interest of citizens. Here, we've got proof of the state's reputation in the banking system. These loans should not be taken, and in the speech of my colleague Veroljub Arsic, you have had the opportunity to see that what you are in charge of is actually carried out across the borders of this country, and without proper documentation. We're not for the profit that can and can be made, as we're not for attracting foreign investors. Free to give foreign investors 2000 per job and 10,000 per job when the channels of bribery and corruption are known at which door and where people, excuse me, please don't take this personally, I'm saying that as a state, as a corrupt government, you take at some door 100,000 euros, because you know who decides who asks. Because, to provide the documentation and conditions that are prescribed somewhere, that and the young children know that it is not enough anymore, but they need to know which door to knock on and how much money is paid on that door to get the right to do something and build something. Citizens don't know which door to knock on to get a job. For two years, Mrs Dragutinovic and dear citizens, we lost to the forgotten story that the SNS tells that exporting is a priority and that it is the country's goal, i.e. employment and budgetary policy and economic policy and every policy and strategy that you bring. You're dating us today with another request for credit, where JAT should be financed. You say it's 40 million dollars to revitalize the airline, where there's no further explanation for revitalization. You're telling us that nine and a half million euros in engine training and two new-generation planes need to be provided. I really can't understand that someone is going public, even if only 30 people were sitting here, even if only this congregation was watched by only ten people, so I'm really asking those who wrote this and left you to defend this—where is their humanity? According to the 20m-euro main and responsible man, the JAT was 23.5m euros last year, the JAT whose report the auditor did not want to sign because it could not determine what it owed, and what it is looking for, is for you a company that deserves to be guaranteed by the state. Let's translate that. The state guarantees a budget that fills in every citizen's pocket that only buys bread and milk. It's easy to guarantee someone else's money. It's easy to guarantee other people's poverty and other people's future income. How can you take credit for a loser who, in his explanation, gives us that his purpose for using a loan is to revitalize the airline? Mrs Dragutinović, perhaps this should have been defended by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic before. I wish he were here today, because I have something to remind him of in terms of that civil aviation directorate fee, but it's enough that you're here too, so I'll finally say it. JAT completely lost all value the moment the contract was signed on so-called. Open heaven, we were not bound to do anything at that moment and we got nothing from it. At a time when the Russian company wanted to privatise JAT for 600m euros, and before signing this open sky contract, someone did not like it politically, but the damage was lost to all Serbian citizens. Here's a new loan we need to resuscitate the dead, which is to delay going into bankruptcy. I responsibly say we postpone our bankruptcy. What's terrible is that JAT no longer has that basic value, and that's the open sky and the lines of flight. JAT no longer has value in pilots who would be what is the essence of the company's value. What are we investing in? What time are we gonna throw some 51 million into something he doesn't deserve? Will someone in this country be responsible for the illegal actions of the Civil Aviation Directorate at the end of 2007 prevented all foreign-owned airlines from operating? They have also successfully addressed the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has absolutely done absolutely nothing since then, and what is most terrible, you in the strategy, which should assure us that this loan is worth investing in JAT, you write that we have a cargo traffic and opportunities to develop it. In 2007, it was extinguished that since the cargo cargo existed. You think no one reads your strategies and no one follows what's going on in this part of the economy, what's called the air force, or traffic in the air? These companies had over three times the capacity of JAT, and you allowed foreign investors to be expelled from this market, by their complaints of illegal abolition and today not being resolved, and by allowing JAT to be destroyed, but because of this JAT paid, this JAT for which we need to grant credit and that the state guarantees, compensations to the board of directors of 100,000 euros in just a year. Is that small? Is it a little bit of what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic here said he didn't get a fee to work at the Civil Aviation Directorate's Council? We, in response to the man in charge of the directorate, have that the total net fee for 2009 has been paid in the amount of 900,000 dinars. The total net fee per council member was paid for 2010 amounting to 452.882,42 dinars. It's only about the first half of the year. For 2008, when the government, the one we're talking about, is formed, we have no data, because it's been formed since the beginning of July. Have you all gone home immediately, I don't know, but it pays off, and whether the utility is paid and who will repay these loans to the citizens is clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46256	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46257	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of a draft law today on the agenda and under which the Republic of Serbia is in charge of commercial banks, if the ruling majority permits and approves it, Serbia will be in charge of 200m euros. The commercial loan, as we could hear, is intended to finance the budget deficit and refinance the debt. It is important to point out that the government has implemented public procurement of financial services, i.e. loans, through the negotiation process, without publishing a public call. No one argues that the Government is indeed available and this way of obtaining financial resources, in this case credit, but did the Public Procurement Authority give you the consent to apply this negotiation procedure in this case? The country's 250m-euro debt is still a very serious matter. Also, it explains that the selected banks have submitted the most favourable offers for those they have applied. However, which banks were sent an offer? Is the offer sent to all banks operating on the local market, i.e. what are the criteria for which you have managed to choose the banks to which you will send the offer? Are some banks favored? Here, to be clear, no one is accusing anyone, but above all, we're looking for answers to questions, so we can draw certain conclusions. By raising hands for this bill, respected colleagues, you will owe Serbia this time to commercial banks for 250m euros. Not to mention the banks because, as my colleague Krasic put it, some of these banks are almost constantly repeating themselves and appearing in various arrangements with the state. You will charge Serbia for a 250m-euro loan with an interest rate higher than 5%. You, like many times so far, will assure us that you are not an overindebted country because public debt does not exceed 60% of GDP. However, your beliefs fall into the water before the fact that the pace in which the state is in debt is quite fast, while little is done on the other hand, not only to reduce consumption, but above all to strengthen the economy, so that we have more income. If we look at it, then it is really threatening that we will have really big problems in the future and that the percentage of public debt in the amount of GDP will increase drastically, and everything is pointing to there. That fact, after all, the SRS is constantly warning you. In doing so, I do not think that you, Mrs Dragutinović, are the only culprit, is also responsible for others, if not greater. Didn't the IMF himself resent certain ministries for unrealistic appetites, this IMF you trust so much? In addition, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic offered citizens a reduction in unemployment and job creation, an increase in GDP, and two years as a deadline for the fiscal deficit to become a fiscal surplus. Instead, we came to a point where, not that borrowing is necessary, but that taking commercial loans, as a form of borrowing, became the only option. That's really disturbing. Also, one of the main arguments that is repeatedly highlighted in favour of borrowing, i.e. by which borrowing is justified and justified by the budget deficit, is that it is all within the deficit agreed with the IMF, of 4.8% of GDP. Does this mean, if the IMF has approved it, that we can all be satisfied and close our eyes on the consequences of the catastrophic policy that the IMF is conducting in the environment and hope it doesn't happen to us? Does this mean that we should close our eyes on the proposals that expose us to this same IMF and hope that everything will be okay, and we know that it won't, because some data says otherwise? Also, the question arises whether this borrowing will be enough to cover the budget deficit, or how much will it be in the end? Have you included in this account all the money necessary for the service of all the commitments made? Wasn't the original plan to cover the deficit in the state register mostly by selling state securities? Of course, it turns out these same banks aren't interested in these bonds. One of the reasons for this is certainly the dinar weakness, and we are now facing the fact that in the situation almost daily depletion of the state's dinars is due in euro, by 250m euros. Then where's the logic? The SRS, too, is interested in how much do you expect the state to incriminate by the end of the year by selling state securities of value? The law states that funds for reconciliation will be provided in the budget. How are you going to create these resources? Is there going to be a new loan, maybe, and so indefinitely? First of all, how much money is that going to be missing by the end of the year to cover the budget deficit? The honest answer is not only for us in parliament but, above all, for Serbian citizens, taxpayers. Serbian citizens cannot live off false promises. False promises, as you know, don't pay anyone's bills, don't provide anyone with food. They can't say, like some government officials, "we don't have money, we haven't paid our bills." That is why I would like you to present in this House proposals for reviving the economy, agriculture, etc., and not to discuss, and very often, new responsibilities, because the budget gap is growing. Finally, to conclude, the SRS will not support this proposal, because it is aware of the consequences of its adoption by the state and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Traffic and Communications will begin at 1400 hours, in Hall Three, so I'd like the board members to take part in the work. I give my word to MP Mark Milenkovic. He's not present. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46259	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, as we have heard, it is extremely unacceptable that we accept the ratification of these contracts and that, as one already-indebted country, we enter into new loans. I would go from the normative-legal document we received, and it is about the Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the KBC Bank, etc., of 250m euros. Namely, our Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly are designed to ratify international contracts, agreements, declarations, conventions, etc. in the Assembly. It is necessary, with the accompanying act, to deliver the original contract. We received an act here representing a memo from the Ministry of Finance to the government, so the government sent us a bill, without a contract. I call upon Mrs Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, to withdraw all of this, to deliver the originals to us, because we can't argue like this. We must have originals in the Assembly, signed, certified by competent state institutions on both sides and on the other hand, and only then can we debate. It's just a memo. It's unusual, and here's the third time this year, that we ratify the correspondence of certain state authorities. Even more tragic is everything we can see in this memo, I can't call it anything but a memo. It's that the state is in charge. We see from this memo that the funds from this loan will be spent on financing the budget deficit and refinanceing the debt. We don't know what budget deficit, we don't know what funds that will be used to refinance debt and what debt. It must all be in the accompanying act. It's a normative-legal thing, a normative legal aspect. Mrs Dragutinović, pull this back, match the norm and then we can talk about all this. What's even more tragic, this is a form, so the ministry can do something about it, like the government, but what can't it do? It cannot prevent government borrowing and enormous debt, not only of the state, as you say in the financial system, but also of other entities in the system: businesses, public enterprises, citizens, local self-government, etc. With a few financial indicators, I'm going to show a very tragic situation, a troubled situation that needs to worry you. But you're obviously not worried about it. The budget deficit in 2006 was 13 billion dinars, in 2007 45 billion dinars, in 2008 70 billion dinars, in 2009 about 102 billion, 2010, we received information from information funds, following an understanding with the IMF, about 120 billion dinars. We'll spend more 120 billion dinars than we make. Did you ask yourself, Mrs Dragutinovic, how to replace all this? If we compare that back four years, then we see that the deficit is increased almost 10 times. An even more tragic situation is if we look at the business of public enterprises, which also have huge losses in their business. Mrs Dragutinović, here's the data, they're fresh, they're obtained from your ministry. In 2007, the local self-government was charged with 27 billion dinars, in 2008, 32 billion dinars, 2009 41 billion in 2010, for the first six months 50 billion dinars, and already according to these indicators I have, over 70 billion dinars. So almost four times in the last three years. In public enterprises, where you said you couldn't control, you have no insight into the way in which these companies operate, or even some of the financial flows of public enterprises that they spend without central government control. The accumulated losses of the public sector, public-communal and public enterprises are around four billion euros. Their debt is about 4.5 billion euros. In all this public debt that we now have at 11.6 billion euros, we see the state of our society. What is devastating is that the government, the government's competent state authorities in the financial sector, does not see the situation of saying – well, now something has to be done. The task is to make certain cuts, as they do, the land of the developed West. Here we could read these days in the means of informing how England does it, how France does it, how Germany does it, etc. What are they doing and what aren't we doing? They are already making one medium-term policy, some countries by 2014, some by 2015, where they say openly -- we need to reduce the state apparatus with a precisely nominated number of administrations that must go to the labour market. The state cannot address all these possibilities, the inability to finance the public sector. The agencies are being closed, the state institutions that were unimaginable for this modern world are closing down, but they're shutting down. We can't finance them and shut them down. England, you could read it, will shut down in 2011, during this four-year period, because it is doing it for the period 2011 to 2014, 192 agencies and state institutions. What else are they doing? They reduce subsidies, reduce social benefits, reduce state spending, increase taxes, increase fees, etc. But there's something going on. Here is the only job of the state to be in charge, to burden ourselves with such a burdened economy and citizens, and to ask who will return it? And when can that come back? You here say very nicely and schemingly in these laws on the ratification of these borrowing contracts, the means to settle obligations under the contract provided for in Article 2 of this Law will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What budget? We don't have a budget. It's just paper. Empty paper. Mrs Dragutinović, you know very well what the revenues and budgets are. We haven't changed them in the last five years, they're the same. We just have the front page. We're just spending, and the country's throwing away. Instead of setting ourselves up like the countries in the West, in the region, and making a cut, we make a real situation, and we make a solution to all of these problems that we have in the financial sector. You don't care about that. It's important to be in charge. Now, here's how this is done by the economically responsible government and the socially responsible government. In order to resort to the resolution of the current deficit situation in the budget, in order to settle all the costs that rise from day to day, the state is short-term in debt to state records. In 2008, the amount was 8.5 billion dinars. In 2009, listen now, 213 billion. It is in the short term, it is that we return with one loan to the existing one, etc. How many times is that? That's almost 40 times, 30 times more. The 2010 budget planned to charge the state with 294 billion dinars, i.e. 3 billion euros, in this way. Here, we are witnessing these days that banks are canceling obedience. They will no longer buy state records, some 18% were sold at the last sale, with interest of 13%, and interest is far higher than the law allowed. Where's the end? Mrs Dragutinović, this cannot be stopped. The Sundoor state finances can't be stopped this way. You're not investing anything in the economy. We would be overjoyed by Serbian radicals if I could wait here for a moment to discuss the ratification of a particular loan that the state owes to, and that we invest in employment, in development. It allows you to do so by law, etc. Tell me, has any such law been proposed by the government in the period from 2001 to today? It's not. And they won't, because they don't give us funds for those purposes. You can only get short-term funds the way you get it this way. Mrs Dragutinovic, stop the state finances' Sunflower. In what way? Make a proper analysis of the situation, take it to the government and propose adequate measures to the Assembly, without it we have no state finances at all, if we don't have state finances, this state has no perspective. No citizens, no business.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46260	The word is Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46261	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are indeed judging by the strange bill. Only six members, and the debt of the Republic of Serbia to business banks, with seven business banks of 250m euros under the most unfavourable conditions, all for funding budget groups. So, the RS government doesn't have any economic policy, it simply makes moves that can be made by anyone, really anyone who can be in charge abroad or by some domestic business banks, and when the time comes to pay off those loans, the question is how will they do it. You don't ask that question from the ruling coalition, you know that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have to return it and those generations to come. But what's very interesting is that you have problems precisely because of your ideology of approaching the EU, an ideology that says the EU has no alternative, which has made one new political party in the Serbian parliament although it has not participated in the elections. Since the unilateral application of the SAA, the Republic of Serbia has damages of over 300m euros. By removing the customs barriers to goods from the EU, you yourself have led the Republic of Serbia to this. I will remind you that Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic also said that the losses of the Republic of Serbia due to unilateral application of the SAA will be 150m euros in one year alone. But it was all on paper. In order to fill that hole, the government of the Republic of Serbia paid debts to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, raised excise duties on coffee, beer, cigarettes, the obligation to register cars, etc. So, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia now had double coercion. One imposition because of one meaningless ideology -- we will do everything to get in touch with Brussels, and another indignity because the government of the Republic of Serbia has found it appropriate that the money donated by the EU is additionally drawn from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, by making these losses and leading these truly incredible and bad economic policies, you citizens of Serbia are pushing into an ever greater and greater misery. At the same time, the UK monopolies, acting here through Mr. Beck, such as Salford, are causing a shortage of milk. You now have again at the stores a shortage of milk and oil shortages. Remember, these were the main passwords against Slobodan Milosevic, at the time. After 10 years of approaching the EU, and you have made that consensus, you now have this robbery by Brussels and by consortiums, which are under control of capital coming from the West. What did you do about borrowing these seven business banks? Two hundred fifty million euros. You've taken incredible interest rates. Low interest rate, i.e. margin 4.25% but maximum 5.30%. Why didn't you go on the site of those banks and see their business offer, so you could see that they approve of 4% margins. So, when it comes to the economy, and here, when it comes to the state of Serbia that will certainly return its comrade, because citizens will pay back at some point that debt, you accept such interest rates, so simply amazing. When ministers take loans from business banks, when the presidents of municipalities take up housing loans at business banks, they get an interest rate of 1.8%. How now does the state of Serbia 5.30 and ministers 1.8? At least they should have the same interest. No, you're distracting the people. You say – 10m euros for General Ratko Mladic. For what? Because he did not allow Republika Srpska to end up as the Republika Srpska Krajina. Where are you going to get that money? You did not say so, but this act imposes an additional debt on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of 250 million. What further does your economic policy lead to? It also has to do with this because citizens are increasingly in debt. He says Serbs will spend a billion euros on credit cards abroad in 2011. So you're going to have a billion-euro outflow. Borrowing at the highest percentage over credit cards, not debit cards. Credit cards, which should be warned to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are the worst form of borrowing, as they include so-called. Rival credit, which can hardly be paid off. The interest rate on those credit cards is over 25, over 30%. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if you want to use cards and you need to use cards, use only debit cards, and do not use credit cards unless you have some special offers on these credit cards. Because they tell you that sometimes you have six, or nine or 12 wars, and you don't have any interest, believe that they don't tell you the truth, because credit cards get interest on interest. Your economic policy leads to this – a billion euros will be sent to the West, which robs us through this borrowing, which robs us through its companies, such as Salford and some others, which even causes shortages, we have already mentioned, in the market of the Republic of Serbia. So, I call on you, the next time you define yourself for this kind of borrowing, you really check what conditions give relevant banks to politicians, what conditions they give certain firms, how they behave, since they are all, although registered in Serbia, mostly foreign banks. Foreign capital is at stake, and money from Serbia is just ending up in their home banks and central banks. Ask around how they behave in other countries and then get the average, find the mean, and you offer these conditions. Another important thing that you're avoiding, and my colleagues mentioned it, that's the position of the SRS, you can't talk about this kind of bill unless we have a contract in front of us. As you know, contracts with business banks, and Serbian citizens felt it on their skin, contain a number of hidden items and those items that concern margins. Thus, the business banks in the Republic of Serbia have introduced one item, according to which the trade margin can be increased according to their own opinion, regardless of what the value of the euribor, for example, falls. I really want to know what kind of contract you're willing to sign. What else did you sign with the business banks? Indeed, it would be the turn of the National Assembly by providing us with a copy of the contract that you conclude with the business banks, not just to extract the most basic elements. It is obvious that someone in the Republic government does not know how well to read these contracts, and we really want to see how much the total debt of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46262	Ten minutes of Parliament time. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. The remaining time is 22 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46263	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever a set of points is found in parliament in front of us today, I think it is absurd to say by who knows which way, by order, from the day of the formation of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and not only that, since the famous five-octobaric changes in 2000, we face such a situation and cannot bring the whole story into context with the fact that I would compare it with the beginning of the end, which is when, just over two years ago, Serbia has practically recognised the loss of economic sovereignty, the defeat of economic policy, by asking for financial assistance from the IMF and thus virtually admit that it is in a serious problem, i.e. in debt crisis. From September 2008 to June 2010, according to data available, Serbia's total debt has been increased by a new 3.3 billion euros. In fact, in such a cycle of government borrowing, it was only possible to enter for two reasons. The first is, of course, only that it was realized, was both necessary and understandable, and that's the story of renovating infrastructure, which whenever we have a set of dots like this we can hear that these funds will be directed in that direction, and the second is one that is no less dangerous, and it is related to the pressure of the private sector, to be saved and that part of its investment failures and debts practically shifts to the burden of the state. When it comes to this first point, it is clear that all the funds that have been taken on this basis so far have not ended up where it has been announced, and the additional problem is also the fact that since the start of the crisis, certainly all of these funds received under various contracts, agreements, loans, etc., only the rescue of the national currency has been spent more than 2.7 billion euros or, not to be underprivileged, almost as much as the credit arrangement with the IMF. Part of the private debt is thus broken to the back of the entire population and that is what will cost Serbia, especially in the coming period much more expensive than is seen today and to conclude. All these loans will return to burdens and pensions and health and education, etc., but also to the burden of some future investments, therefore, on the burden of future growth. The second indicator of the black situation we are in is certainly related to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will have that hole larger by 17 billion dinars this year than the one originally planned. The problem you also face, Mrs Dragutinovic, and the entire government is the dance that exists between some real state in Serbia and what you are forced to promise and accept in talks with international financial institutions, starting with the defrosting of wages and pensions, and to the promise given by the IMF that you will reduce public spending, etc. I really don't know how you're going to get past the situation you're in. I see that there are some newspapers here, so you are turning to a new instrument for borrowing Eurobonds, but as your Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Slobodan Ilic has confirmed, practically 200m euros, what will be the total emissions of these charters, to be spent as planned on budget rebalances for this and next year's budgets. In addition to criticising why the state is in debt in the euro and if you are, through means of informing, great advocates of the use of the dinar as much as possible, it is clear that this money will end most likely in the budget, or in public spending, the problem you face and you fail to deal with. There are a lot of questions about this issue. It's certainly one thing to wait for us over a few years if this kind of growth of external debt continues, in what is invested, borrowed money, whether or not to continue its irrational spending. I don't think the answers are difficult because you've shown that in practice so far on many occasions. Out of the total external debt, the public sector, or the state of Serbia, owes more than eight billion, which at first sight can seem tolerable, however, that part of the external debt, of course, is of the utmost interest to the administration, but also to the citizens and to the economy that is filling the state budget and from which the debt will be paid back. The rest of the debt, therefore, owes about 15 billion euros to the private sector. Of that, about 10.5 billion companies and about 5 billion euros in banks. This does not mean that the debts of businesses and banks are their only concern, because what happened last year and this year is saying that their problem is obviously becoming a problem for both states and citizens. Large companies, importers and debtors were in debt abroad and were building various properties, and then the crisis occurred and now they simply cannot sell goods or built business and housing squares in order to return payments for loans and therefore there is pressure or demand from the state to stop the growth of foreign exchange rates while they are also buying these foreign exchanges in order to repay the debt and thus lead to an increase in the rate of the euro, which practically affects both the state and the citizens. I must also mention, above all, because of the public, that what was declared to be a declaration that the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act would establish an effective dam on excessive government debt, that unfortunately we will make sure that this is not the case even though the fiscal responsibility law has been beneficial for many countries. The problem is that it does not provide for sanctions because, for example, to sanction either the government or the finance minister if the deficit in the budget is exceeded? In addition to condemning MPs from the SRS, and I hope to the public, therefore, the convictions of those who are guilty of the deficit, such a law obviously won't be able to do much to help excessive government debt. Also, one of the problems that is likely to arise is that we will soon be in for restitution, and that will only require new costs and states and the question of how will all of this be able to come back and do it all the way. It is particularly dangerous what awaits us next year, because the current arrangement with the IMF will end in April, and if you stick to that logic to be in debt, to raise wages, pensions, to give subsidies, it is clear that this will have a very bad impact on economic movements. The problem is that it is clear that Serbia's debt will continue to grow, as well as the unmistakable commitments from year to year. According to official data from donations that came to the country via NBS, ino-credit, privatisation and direct foreign investment, from 2000 to last year, the country's amazing 37 billion euros merged. For a good part or practically for most of that money, you don't know where it is or what it's spent on. The result of all this is that Serbia will enter a long-term debt crisis, however much you find some parameters to present to the public that Serbia is not in this danger and relatively fast, perhaps as fast as in the next year or two, it could be repeated by that scenario that Russia had in 1998 or Argentina in 2001, but in order to avoid all of this, it requires first and foremost one exit strategy from the economic crisis and a series of accompanying relevant legal acts. Also, I would like to point out this opportunity that new borrowings, which we face every month, need to be directed into infrastructure projects, to restructure market-based perspectives, while informing public finances and facilitating monetary policy, which, by the logic of things, should attract foreign investment. If that does not happen, Serbia will find itself in an even worse position than before the world economic crisis comes along and when the price of a possible exit will be much higher for both the economy and the population. What I also want to point out is that there has been a lot of speculation about the causes of the economic crisis. She didn't arrive all of a sudden. We have already had an economic and social crisis, and some US intelligence services announced it as early as July 2005 in the projection of the economic movements in the world by 2020, and in Serbia they predicted slow economic progress, noting that by 2020 there would be a black hole at the economic bottom of Europe. So until 2020. Despite the fact that the first write-off of $2.3 billion was due by the London and Paris Club of Trustees, that Serbia's external debt has been growing dynamically since 2000, it may only support one fact, which is that once with State Department official Zbigev Bzezinski said that it is necessary to encourage the European Community countries to continue to lend credit to Serbia because an increase in debt will serve as a means of economic and political pressure, which will be useful for softening the state. We're witnessing he was right. All that could be heard in principle indicates that the key problem of the Serbian economy is that its budget, the entire state structure, the pension fund is based on an inaccessible small number of people who finance this structure and that it is a relationship that simply cannot survive and threatens to completely collapse both the economic system and the state. He was unsustainable at the beginning of the crisis. Now he is only further worsened by such a policy led not only by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic but by everything we have been able to face for the past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46264	It's been used for 13 minutes and 40 seconds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, at the beginning of today's debate, you said we were discussing six very important laws today, and when we put together all the millions that are involved in these laws, we came up with some 325m-euro figures, how much you're going to owe RS today. What a man should say after that information, and keep it in mind, because you spoke with so much love about these millions, as if it were direct public investments, loans, or capital that would be invested in the Serbian economy that every citizen of this country would be better. However, the capital that we are talking about today comes to this country in the form of a loan, and the loans, Mrs Dragutinovic, have to return, I suppose, from some future savings, so I ask you to understand our well-intentioned concern – is this money going to be invested or is it going to be in your election campaigns? We have experience of a dinar course being maintained from some of the funds that have also come to this country in the form of loans, so please tell me -- is two billion and 300 million, how much has been invested in defending the course this year, wisely invested? Serbia is a country in charge, and I would also say that it is over-indebted, which must repay its debts, unfortunately, to the burden of pensions, health insurance, investment in the country's education system and a series of social life segments in Serbia. The state can't develop unwitting spending. It is not in any country in the world, so it will not be in Serbia either. If I'm wrong, please correct me. My civil right, and the obligation as a MP, is to publicly discuss public investment and the spending of state money, and it is your legal obligation to care for that money as if it were yours and to deliver all the information and information requested to the MPs. That is why I will ask you today a few questions that I believe you must have an answer, since you are the minister in the government who brought Serbia out of the crisis and who tends to be a leader in Europe. How much has the state administration been reduced by and how much savings in the RS budget by reducing it? What means reform of the pension system, because we really don't understand what we saw in the media – what did the trade unions agree with the Prime Minister, did they sign any agreements? The reform of the pension system is not that PUPS MPs give up their salaries because they also receive their pensions. What is the savings in the RS budget after implementing a new reform of the newer judiciary in the latest Serbia? Do you have that information regarding prosecutorial and judicial tourism in Serbia? How many people in Serbia lost their job in 2010? How many people got jobs in 2010? Of those 200,000 promised jobs, counterpart Senic just said that some 17,000 were employed. How many people lost their jobs? It is unknown, but according to statistics, every 12 seconds, an employee of Serbia in this country loses his job. In these ten minutes I'm going to be talking, figure out how many people are going to lose their jobs. How much money in Serbia is allocated to folk cuisine and how many users of these folk cuisines that have one meal to survive? Is every employee in Serbia in charge of a certain amount, according to some data that I came up with about 2,000 euros per employee of Serbia? Is it true that Serbia is 78th in place, i.e. that it shares 78th to 84th on the list of countries burdened with corruption, along with Lesota, Colombia, Peru and Thailand? How much is a year spent on public procurement? According to the data I've come up with, it's about 4 billion euros somewhere, and how much of that money is spent and gone, or is it eaten by corruption? Also, according to the data I have, it's about 20%. Is it logical for you as Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic that Serbia imports milk, food, water, electricity? Your answer should be whether the milk we import we pay for smiles, pesos, dinars or euros? Has there been a fall or an increase in tax revenues? Is spending more than planned? Is GDP less than planned? How much did consumer prices rise in 10 months? How much will heat and electricity in this country cost? The other day, we saw that 30% of the heat in Belgrade, Novi Sad and some other cities was collected, and I assume that next year's government will congratulate Serbian citizens with a new price hike. How much is inflation targeted, and how much is it today, and how much is it going to be by the end of this year? How much is it after the last pick-up? How much will the transfers to local self-government be reduced by? I'll talk about Chuck, the town I come from. Last year, transfers were reduced by 180 million dinars. This year for 180 million dinars. Will that be the same next year? Let me translate that and try to explain it plastically, that's two less bridges for our town on West Morava. It's a closed pool we're not gonna build. It's a series of kindergartens we won't be able to make. It's a home for the old faces we planned to work on, and we won't be able to because this government has denied funds from the transfer. Why don't you publish a list, if you have it, of large companies that don't pay regular salaries to employees and pay their contributions to this country? How many requests for verification have been sent to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and how many of these requirements have this administration given its answer to? Does 300,000 children in Serbia still dream of chocolate today? Is Serbia a leader in Europe, and if not when will it be? Has the state debt ceiling of 45% of GDP been crossed, no matter what methodology you are calling for? Did the amount of the annual loan-to-GDP rate exceed its growth rate, because if it exceeds, then we're the overindebted country? Is it true that last year we ended up with two and a half billion dollars in outstanding debt? How much is Serbia's public debt and how much has it increased compared to last year? How deep is the internal debt, and how much of Serbia's external debt? What is waiting for us over a few years if foreign debt growth continues or you are not interested because there will be some elections in 2012 and then the country's finances will be run by another minister? How much of the total foreign debt does the state, how much private sector, how many businesses, and how many banks and whether the debts of banks and businesses are their only concern? I don't think so. That's the concern of both this country and all the citizens of RS. Did large companies borrow abroad, raise loans to build market centres and real estate here and then create an economic crisis, the one you said would bypass us, that our development opportunity, and now suddenly we're out of this non-existent economic crisis, and what are these big businesses doing because they can't sell the goods they stocked up on their supplies, they can't sell squares of residential and business space? They pressure the state to maintain the stability of the course and at the same time buy these same foreign exchanges and thus affect the rise of the course. That is also the problem of the state and the citizens of RS. Over the past two and a half years, this country has only been in debt, and now we see that you're determined to sell Telecom, and you're doing it all to keep on spending. It's a desperate move we can't keep silently agree to. Does anyone in Serbia really believe that Minister Mladjan Dinkic will guarantee by his honorable minister's word that these 900 million will be invested in infrastructure, and that you will personally and physically, the Fiscal Council, in which you are sitting, control how these funds are being spent? That doesn't mention the 500 million to a billion and 400 for what you were planning to sell to Telecom. One state secretary in this government said -- when we pass the Fiscal Responsibility Act, there will be no more crisis in Serbia. A brilliant statement, I admit, but please, if he's not able to answer us, tell us, did we get out of the crisis? Also, your State Secretary, Mr Ilic, said in May that Serbia should limit public spending by 2015 and reduce the budget deficit to 0.75% of GDP. Tell me, Mrs Dragutinovic, how does this assembly punish you and this government if this line prescribed by law exceeds and the deficit in the budget is greater? There are no criminal provisions in the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which you adopted ten days ago in this House. I don't expect an answer, but there's something else I need to ask you, because next year is pre-election. It'll probably be electoral. In April, the arrangement with the IMF ends, does this mean that you are then entering new exhibitions, into new borrowings, to raise wages and pensions just to deliver it to the citizens before the elections, to some new subsidies, to start app loans that people will finance their children's weddings, fly to Greece and spend that money in who knows what way? Mrs Dragutinovic, a deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, you may be able to cover your loans and debts, but there is no such money that you can cover the deficit of national dignity and shame that this government has caused the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46266	Ten minutes of Parliament time. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46267	This debate was supposed to be held on November 4th, more specifically last Thursday. But then the chairman, explaining why we can't have the debate, said Mrs Dragutinovic was sick and that's why we don't have the debate. That's justifiable. But this is the only minister who comes here with bill proposals without the willingness of other members of the government to defend the laws she is proposing here in her absence. It is truly strange, as is strange here and what worries us, that from the representatives of the ruling coalition, together with you, Mr. Chairman, there are six MPs present in the hall. That's really embarrassing, and I wonder, Mrs Dragutinovic, whose support do you have here for the bill that upsets the public? The media has largely talked about these laws, and above all, about the law relating to the coverage of the budget deficit. We are here today discussing the 25-party credit-related law, 10m euros each, and 250m euros to cover the budget deficit. Mrs Dragutinović, one question, if you can answer the citizens and also to the MPs – how long since the beginning of the year has this state, or this government, been in charge of refinanceing its commitments, liquidity and covering the budget deficit? I'll tell you. Six hundred and fifty million euros so far, with these 250m euros, we are practically reaching a billion-euro figure or more precisely 900m euros is the credit debt of the Republic of Serbia to cover the budget deficit and to refinance liabilities, i.e. liquidity. By the end of the year, we must be expected here and new credits on the budget deficit. What we're worried about is that you've obviously lost credibility and that you're getting harder and harder to get money. This time you somehow managed to capture, so I say, these dozens of banks and take loans from them under extremely unfavourable conditions. The average interest on these loans is 6.3%. Mrs Dragutinović, these are extremely unfavourable interest. On the other hand, we have something that is variable, which is a three-month variable reference rate that refers to the euro, which is at this point 1.2%. Only a few months ago, it was 0.7%. The question is, how much longer will it grow? Why don't you tell me what the cost is here for these loans? The cost of these loans to be paid by the state is one million euros. You know that well. How did you try to cover the budget deficit? You're trying to cover a budget deficit and a huge public spending to cover by broadcasting securities of value. However, this is becoming more difficult for you, for the simple reason that the growing mistrust in this authority is showing that it is increasingly incompetent and is unable to meet and articulate the needs of citizens. That's why there's less interest. Mrs Dragutinović, you, or this government, have, for example, sold 1.16 billion dinars of annual state records on 21 October of this year, or of the total emissions, only 38.63% with interest of 13.2%. You sold six months worth of 2.9 billion dinars or 58.2% of the total emission of 11.30%. What's the result? What conclusion do the citizens have? Trust is lost in this government, and people lose trust, or banks lose trust in the dinar. You think this year's sales of securities make you between 175 billion and 180 billion dinars, right? How much did you get? How many of you are waiting for the commitments you have to settle on the basis of previously broadcast securities of value – 40 billion dinars. How are you gonna get that back? I think, finally, and you said you were Harry Potter, that you could help the citizens of Serbia. Here you have to invent some chemistry to get the citizens out of the bull. But I don't see a way. I don't see a way, except that you, Mrs Dragutinovic, are getting more and more in debt. To patch up holes, you need about 1.5 billion euros in the budget deficit. Who's gonna pay for that cash? Citizens of Serbia. If that's a problem for this government, it's no wonder. You assured us that we were not a highly in charge of the country, that your Ministry of Finance could drain 4.8% of GDP for covering the budget deficit and for excessive public spending. Let's see what public debt is and how much, in fact, we owe it. Last year, Mrs Dragutinovic, we owed 9.85% of the billion euros at the end of the year. At the end of August, we owed 10.4 billion. At the end of September this year, public debt is 11.62 billion euros. Compared to the previous year, if we look at September, you are in debt and increased public debt by 1,780,000,000 euros. Last year, or last month, or August, you increased public debt by a total of 680m euros. What is the same for all of us alarming and what warns us, it is Mrs Dragutinovic, that we have the fiscal liability law that we adopted twenty days ago in this assembly, more precisely a month ago, which limits the budget deficit to 45%, or public debt to 45% of GDP. What's the problem here? You say the public debt is 11.62 billion. However, where is the debt to the IMF of 1,460,000,000 here? Mr. Bajec is counting on you to respect his opinion, and he's your colleague who's taking part in negotiations with the IMF. He says, Mrs Dragutinovic, that debt to the IMF is also a public debt. If we add this debt of 11.62 billion and a billion and 460 to the IMF, we get a figure of over 13 billion euros. Debt is no longer 45% of GDP, but exceeds that figure. Someone has to answer for that. That's why the law is clear, to overstep all obligations that are past the law. Who's gonna answer? The foreign trade debt is over 24 billion, which is being warned by Serbia's most famous economists, say Serbia is already a highly-indebted country and is over 78% of GDP, being treated as a debt that the country brings to a highly-indebted country. By the end of the year, should you give an answer here to all of us, we should pay back three billion euros in debt? How are you gonna get that back? These are the obligations that this country, or this government, has made, and you have to pay it back. Gentlemen from the ruling coalition should come here and, together with you, Serbian citizens, answer what kind of chemistry these debts are to pay back. The foreign exchange reserves have been reduced and they have finally come down to below nine billion and 800, and if of that, Mrs Dragutinovic, you reject the reserves the banks have, the net foreign reserve is about five billion. We can't expect any foreign exchange inflow, except borrowing, and I can see that you're ready and you're simply at a low start to go into as much debt as possible and to throw a new impose on this people. The deficit is huge and last year it was over five billion euros. The commitments have been reduced, i.e. abroad, and last year we had three billion and 800m euros from our citizens, which our diaspora citizens brought here to the country. This year, for the first nine months, you only have a billion and 800 million. Mr Cvetkovic, addressing foreign investors on Wednesday (October 27th), said, among other things, that the economic crisis in Serbia has passed and that Serbia has come out of the crisis with less consequences than other countries. What's the situation in Serbia? Over 200,000 people were out of work, and only in July this year, 25,761 were out of work. Serbia in Europe has the highest inflation rate. Salaries are the lowest in Europe. Prices are charged to maximum, food collection, heating, no milk. Corruption has eaten over 11 billion euros. Mrs Dragutinović, I asked you and you should have answered me because you are a member of the Development Fund Management Board, what about the money from the Development Fund that was used for permanent crafts? I remind you that the chairman of the Management Board of the Development Fund is Mr Dinkic, that members of the Management Board are Mr Milosavljevic, Mr Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ljajic, Mr. Ugljanin and you. These are all ministers in the government, along with the vice president. To conclude, when will the MPs in this assembly be, when will you go out with the budget rebalance? You're way over your budget deficit, and your deadlines are long gone. I don't think those deadlines are over, because this government, Mrs. Dragutinovic, all the deadlines are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46268	Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more registered to us for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, this should be one of the most important discussions that the Assembly has not only here, but everywhere in the world. When discussing such large funds and debt that is long-term and permanent, it should have the utmost attention. At first, I warned of the shortcomings in our procedure. You have addressed yourself at the very beginning, will address you at the very end, and then it is a serious lack of our procedure in the Assembly and a serious lack of understanding of democracy. I guess the point is that this is a communication that will lead to the law being better, I don't think it's the point of you telling yours, and we're doing ours, and everyone else is doing their job. It should not be surprising, a team before you have in today's newspaper a statement by Mr. Stamenkovic, a member of the Economic Council of the Government. I understand you're not listening to the opposition, but he says in two and a half years' time, how much of that pompously announced advice exists, he only met three times. It's one thing that you don't listen to us, but you don't listen to yourself. Unlike most speakers, I disagree that it's your fault. I think it's the government's fault. This government is designed not to be a government and this government is designed to make excuses. No country needs excuses. We need solutions to problems. We were discussing a set of laws today. Only this law that brings in 250m euros in debt and when you count each letter, it has only two sides, and each letter owes Serbia eight and a half thousand euros. So eight and a half thousand euros is the average two-year salary in Serbia. Now tell me, does so much duty deserve this kind of discussion, this kind of debate? As serious as the problems are, we can list as many as you want, so whether there's going to be any shortages of milk, whether or not we're going to import it, meat shortages in the shops. Look what's going on with the bridge on Ada. The tender said it costs 120m euros, an estimated costing 160m euros. Already today, according to city administration officials, it costs 290m euros, with no borrowing costs. The bridge will be completed, but it won't be possible to arrive, only by elevators, because it's not finished on the left or right. That's what we're gonna do later, new tenders. Are those infrastructure projects that need Serbia and that need to get us out of the crisis? All those questions I asked at the beginning obviously do not have an answer to the very end of this debate, because it is particularly a question, whether Serbia is a highly in charge of the country or not. I know you appreciate Mr. Pavel Petrovic and he was your professor. He made a very interesting statement, and he called out, I don't know if you've had a chance to see, the scientific work of a professor at Harvard University, because they've been doing an analysis for the last few hundred years, the risk of the country falling into a borrowing crisis. So 20% of the government debt, but also private debt, because this crisis has shown, when debts are large and private, they take on certain dimensions of government debt. Twenty per cent of the countries had problems, falling into debt crises when the debt reached 20% of GDP. Furthermore, 32% of countries were in debt crisis and debt payout problems, when the debt was between 40% and 60% and 16% when the debt was greater than 80%. Serbia's total external debt is about 80%, and the likelihood of a debt crisis is about 75%. A fairly large level and a rather serious situation that should lead us all to, if anything else to seriously think about, a team before this country had already had experience that we haven't forgotten, which is how the state tries to eat an internal debt, by blowing up inflation, that inflation at first suits everyone, that inflation eats an internal debt, and eventually eats the whole country. At this point, inflation due to liquidity also corresponds to some firms, it also corresponds to the budget, in the long run, it is absolutely no solution. In the long run, it only leads to the spiral of death. When will this country get out of trouble? When you answer the question how many people are out of a job. Several of my predecessors spoke about the loss of 200,000 people without a job in Serbia. How many of these are employed in state-owned companies and in the public sector? I mean, none, none. As long as people who work and who need to bring GDP growth have a 100% risk, and as long as the state doesn't take any chances and doesn't answer for anything, we won't be able to get out of trouble. We don't have an answer today, and we don't know after this debate what the total government debt is. We know today that ten days ago the budget deficit was 98 billion. Today, we are in debt for 25 billion new or 250m euros, and we do not know how much they will go to refinance and how much they will go to the deficit. Does this mean that the Budget Law will be broken? Does this mean that the Serbian Parliament has no answer to the question of where this money is going? Yes, it does, because the Constitution is very clear in Article 92 – the Assembly brings a budget, and the budget shows all revenues and expenditures. Do we know what the total expenditure is? We don't know, because we don't know how much he's going to refinance. Tell us of these 250m euros how much is going to refinance, how much is going to the deficit? We don't know that today, it doesn't say anything. What you're saying is it's gonna be so fulfilled, because it's good practice, it's one thing. You broke the Budget System Act because you didn't deliver the budget to us ten days ago, you didn't deliver the final bill, you didn't deliver the consolidated final account. Is that right? Yeah, that's right. Then how can you tell? What are we gonna do? How are we going to protect the congregation from this government? We will send a letter to all MPs tomorrow, for a simple reason, which indicates that the budget will be broken and the constitution will be broken. At the moment the law is passed, if the budget rebalance is not adopted in the meantime, we will address the Constitutional Court, because it is our only barrier to protect this country from this government by democratic means. We will try to fight in such a way, and the generations that come, they will solve all these problems and they will be faced with everything that you have imposed on them in these few years as far as you are in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46270	Mrs Dragutinović, do you want to answer? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46271	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, no matter what side they were on, no matter what number, as I expected from the opposition MPs, the criticism was mostly directed at two things, the borrowing of the state and the borrowing of the state under commercial conditions, so I would take this opportunity, regardless of the number of MPs in the O.R. and whatever side they are on, to remind you of what fiscal policy it is. So the definition of fiscal policy in each textbook is to use tax policy, public expenditure policy and debt in the function of macroeconomic stability, employment and growth. It's in every textbook. In this way, the discussions that talk about borrowing is something that is embarrassing, which no one lives to do in this world, but only Serbia, thus falling into the water. Just look at the definition in any public finance textbook. What does this fiscal policy look like and what is done in the conditions of recession or poor economic growth? Public expenditures are growing, deficits are growing, and resources must be found to cover the deficits. Of course there is no free lunch and of course when you have a deficit you can only use two sources – borrowing or privatisation. It is not disputed, I mean, in the 21st century borrowing is per se and is not a questionable borrowing of any economic entity, family or economy. As far as public debt is concerned, I would remind all of us together that there are different definitions. When you ask me what public debt it is, I really don't know what you think about it. I apologize for using different definitions, and then I can tell you how long the one you mean is. There's a debt of state and it's direct and indirect. There is a public debt that includes the debts of public agencies, such as the NBS. There is, of course, an external debt that can be a state, it can be public, it can be private. This private may be a bank debt and may be a long enterprise. I don't know what you're asking me. But if you're asking me what the debt of the state that has to do with fiscal policy is, honestly, I'm going to tell you that the debt that has to do with fiscal policy is at this point 11.6 billion euros, is at this point 38% of the social product, is at this point the debt that increased from 2008 to 2010 by almost 10 percentage points. It is also a public debt that is below the limit of less-indebted countries which is 48% of the social product and even measured by the participation of that debt in exports, since we are not an export economy, is far less than the debt of less-indebted countries. So there's this relationship that says that 135 percent of the debt-export ratio is something that represents a less-indebted state. We're at this point at 100%. So, I don't know if it's a bad intention or a lack of facts, but it's definitely not that there's a rule that's high or low, which is high or low, there's something that before the crisis was called mastrich, which exists now and it says that the height of public debt rather than private, should not be greater than 60% and the deficit of 3%. I mean, there are countries whose debts are significantly higher. Like, Japan or Germany. There are debts and there is still a high demand for government bonds in these countries. I also have to say again that the Titanic is the greatest, best, technically the most perfect ship ever built, no one could have guessed something was going to happen to him, but it happened. When I talk about the public or state or debt of the general state being increased, but still not high in international terms, maybe I should say something about the external debt itself and something about the so-called. private debt. So we're all witnessing that the public debt has increased and that the debt of the state has increased. None of you have said that the private debt, for example, has been reduced. So the private debt fell by about a billion and a half euros, the same from 2008 to 2010. Also, when you compare the debt of that loan taken by our citizens and our economy, it is the least in Europe. When you compare our foreign debt to foreign reserves, both net and gross, however you count them, it's almost the lowest in Europe. All these indicators, like it or not, say we're on some bottom ladder. When it comes to the debt of the general state, only three countries currently have a debt smaller than ours. We still live among other countries, living as we do, and the wages we have are the result of our productivity. So to pass the exam, gentlemen, you should learn first. So, to make money, you have to first ensure that productivity increases properly. Why would this money be used? You know, money comes to something called a consolidated vault account. It was those foreign currency ones, they were the dinar ones, they were all poured into a cash register called the consolidated vault account. Why are they used? Only for those purposes defined by the Budget Law. There were also criticisms referred to that the state is in commercial debt, I suppose that commercially means market, I have to point out that broadcasting of state securities is also a borrowing and that, in terms of one state's debt, it has nothing to do with whether you are broadcasting state charters that buy banks or natural persons or legal persons, or simply taking credit with banks. Of course, all states are in debt under market conditions and most of them, I can say that we had, it's a big word of luck, but, let's say, we had a little bit of luck, so we provided some of that loan under more favourable conditions than those on the market, that's more of an exception than a rule, that applies to Russian debt, to Chinese debt, and that applies to other loans that we take from the World Bank, international financial institutions. All other loans, of course, are taken under market conditions. Of course, when we invest our savings, we expect a market rate, and yet the interest rate in each market depends on well-known reasons. So when we expect our interest rate to be low, we need to know how the interest rate forms. If you form an interest rate based on the sources you have, your own, your domestics, we need to remind ourselves what is the interest rate on foreign exchange savings that is still the primary source of our population's savings. So this moment 5, 6, 7.5%. The credit cannot be cheaper than that, because it should be added to a mandatory reserve that is currently 25%, of course the margin of banks and then come to the credit price. When you count on funds that are from abroad to increase the flow of foreign exchanges, you have to take care of the price of the source, that is the eurobor, which is really small at the moment, but it has started to increase by 20 base points over a six-month period, you have to bear in mind the risk premium. Someone here mentioned that it was strange that JAT was in charge of more favourable conditions than the state, it was only a moment of negotiation, when it was negotiated for credit, when it came to JAT, and when it came to the state. By April, the risk premium was down. The risk premium means cheaper funds from abroad. Since May, the risk premium has been growing not only for Serbia, for all countries in the region, as a result of the Greek crisis and, why not recognise, as a consequence of the Greek crisis's impact on investors' opinion that the region still lacks the strength to fight and has a more dynamic growth rate in the future. How much did the risk premium increase? For 145 base points and that is exactly the difference that defined the lower interest rate for JAT and higher funding for deficits. On whether or not a loan should be taken, or whether the state should give a guarantee to JAT, I explained that it is only one of the few steps taken to make this company somehow stand on its own feet. We all know well, and there's nothing to hide. In the area of public enterprises and infrastructure at all, and when you look at the European Bank's report on reconstruction and development, you will see that Serbia has not done much in the past ten years but, of course, it is not lonely and, of course, the reform in the area of public enterprises is the most difficult. But what she really does in this case, and I have explained all the steps it seems, I would like to remind myself of my favorite example, it may not be appropriate for Serbia, and some have had an example of Switzerland, which is otherwise known as a country that makes large decisions not with parliament, makes only with a referendum, which makes decisions on changing tax rates, on increasing public expenditure, not through parliament, but through a referendum. It just looks more expensive at first sight. So one Switzerland decided to "Swisser" fail, to go bankrupt, to sell that property, but it itself re-established a new company called "Swiss" and which did business with losses by 2006, covered all the losses, was 40% of the owner of Switzerland, which highly values the money of its taxpayers. She measured the advantages and disadvantages well, decided on a strategy that meant taking over "Svis" by "Lufthanze" and for the first time since 2006, with a new strategy, "Svis" in the hands of "Lufthanze". I hope that with these measures of government similar to that of a national airline. There have been many issues that say that Serbia needs solutions, as if there were correct solutions, and that the government will not provide solutions on purpose. I remind you that economic policy makers are really facing difficult choices and conflicting goals. When I say to each other's conflict goals, it means that we can't achieve both, and not just us, but any government, we can find something from each other, find some point of our own on that curve called "trade-of" or relationship exchange. We're taking a loan that is essentially a foreign exchange loan, and we're speaking publicly about deeuroisation. And I'm here myself, somewhere called, and I'm just a big advocate of deeuroisation, because I know all the positive side of it, and I know that the smaller the level of euroisation of the economy and the banking and financial sectors, the bigger the space for monetary policy to be more efficient. On the other hand, I think the state itself has done a lot just through the structure of public debt. I remind you that in 2008, when the participation of public debt in the social product, i.e. the debt of the consolidated state, was 28%, only 2% of the social product was dinar debt. Today, with a significantly greater debt than 38% of the social product, almost 15% is a dinar debt. So the state increased the dinar share of the debt and reduced the foreign currency's participation. Also, in 2009, when granting subsidies for different types of credit, investment, liquidity, etc., it approves subsidised interest rates only for dinar loans. But on the other hand, if we want to analyze what caused the recent increase in inflation, when I say recently, what's been going on since July so far. Someone asked me if I knew how much inflation was targeted, of course I know what inflation is, of course I know what the range is and of course I know we're above that range right now. There are reasons why it happened. When you want to see what's behind that inflation increase, you'll see that it's a course movement and that it's a price movement, especially agricultural products, I guess because of the poorer offer of agricultural products this year. So now you have two conflicting goals. If inflation was the most affected by the course, and the pressures on the course are normal in an economy that is more import-oriented than export-oriented and no longer available, as well as other economies, such a large inflow of capital, the supply of foreign exchanges has been reduced and therefore the constant pressure on the course. What we could have done was increase that supply of foreign exchanges. This was one way to reduce the pressure on the course and bring inflation back to what we were aiming for. Also, on fiscal policy itself, I say again, there is a kind of choice in front of economic policy makers, there is no one-meaning solution. You need to maintain sufficient support for the still weak economy and, on the other hand, to create a sustainable fiscal framework. Also, both this and every state must balance between reduced expenditures, on the other hand, between social cohesion. Unfortunately, there are no representatives of the LDP. Of course, I'm always ready for good suggestions and I know that LDP had his suggestions. I'd only comment on two things. I think it's easy to say, I did it myself, that we need public spending below 40% of the social product. You go further, and you say no 40%, best 36% of GDP. That sounds good, I'd like it personally, too, but then it's essentially affecting the lives of all our people. I'd like to know what in that relationship, say, when you have public spending, 36% means investing in human capital? How much would a proposing such a proposal or a sketch of public consumption say should be invested in education, health? How much would he say the same thing, how many subsidies are needed and whether subsidies are needed for our agriculture and our important resource? How much should be set aside for our professional army? Should we respect the Constitution and transfer 7% of the RS budget to Vojvodina? Should we respect all laws and single out 1.7% of GDP to local self-government? Does anyone really think that a more significant administration should be reduced? Does he know that this state administration means tax administration, those people who need to collect tax revenues, customs administration, vault, who makes all payments and receipts? Does anyone know how many people there are, how many people depend on social protection? Does anyone in this country think social security is high? Do you really need to cut it down? Does anyone know there are 55,000 war and civilian military invalids here? That there are 35,000 mothers who are employed and who give birth to children? That there are 65,000 mothers who receive a maternal supplement, that there are 400,000 children who receive a child's allowance, that there are 70,000 families who receive material security, 50,000 people who are old, who need someone else's help. Unfortunately, she has abandoned children. Those abandoned children grow best with families. We need foster families. When you put it all in one place and you realize how much it's right relative to the discretion of the state, that it's 4.5 versus 0.5, or that it's only 14% discretion, what's called government policy, you'll realize that it's not enough just to say that the state needs to be 36%, that it has to say how many things. I'm always ready for that kind of conversation. Also, all the measures proposed were measures that definitely affected the reduction of tax opportunities, the removal of VAT on basic life intentions, the reduction of contributions, lower taxes for young workers, I would really be the last one to say that these are not good proposals. It is always better to have lower than more tax rates, but tax revenues are what defines the level of various expenditures or vice versa, public expenditure depends on tax expenditures. So we can't just talk about reducing tax rates, reducing public revenues, we always have to make sure that at all times this raises different social rights. Many serious questions have been raised in a short period of time. When someone asks you a lot of questions, you always wonder if they really want to hear the truth, the answer, and I'm going to have to say what they reminded me at one point of the question about public spending. You know, there are a large number of countries that have been in some kind of crisis at some point, and that required serious fiscal adjustments. The questions that I've been asked here remind me of, say, when everyone knows that public spending has to be smaller and the state decides and reduces public spending, then there's always someone to find someone who's been affected by the reduction of public spending, so it shows that some mother has lost her job, that some child's supplements in the poor family have been reduced. So you always have two angles of observation about the same thing. Of course I know most of the answers to questions, I know that a law has been passed that limits the number of employees in the state administration, that it is 28,400, I know what savings are. They are not large, but as one MP said – there is no small savings. That's 2.7 billion dinars. I'm not familiar with the data on the downsizing of the number of employees, for me, what's valid is the data that the National Employment Service has. According to the National Employment Service, there is no increase in the unemployed, I can even tell you the next thing I know about the latest data for the National Employment Service to cover compensation for the unemployed is that this year 20 billion dinars should be allocated from the RS budget, 18 billion dinars will be allocated, which means that we planned to increase the number of unemployed in the budget, and it did not happen. Of course, if I knew the state of public income, I know that budget revenues are higher, that they're about 6% higher, of course they're higher and budget expenditures, I know what the deficit is, but the deficit changes again every day. So it depends very much on the moment you look at that deficit, whether it's before or after the collection of VAT or excise charges, so it varies depending on the collection of taxes. I also want to remind you that when we talked about the deficit that we were also planning to have some of our own revenue from budget users and their own expenditures. In the RS budget, we planned that a balance would be achieved in the domain of our own incomes, at the moment it is a surplus of around 10 billion dinars, making the budgetary situation more favourable at the moment. I know how targeted inflation is, and so on and so forth. I would also like to say, perhaps, and answer the question that the negotiations with the IMF continue, that they are interrupted for a completely banal reason which you, unfortunately, have witnessed. In order for the sixth revision to be concluded, we need to agree in parallel on both the rebalancing and the budget for the following year. What I can tell you is that we have agreed on the rebalancing, and the budget for next year will be in line with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, but which, again, I must stress, implies the deficit, that this deficit is 4% of the social product, so as far as it goes under the law. Someone said if I knew what the key question is and what is the most important issue for Serbia. I guess I know -- the sooner we get out of the crisis, the sooner the economy gets back to those growth pathways it had before the crisis started, but as a small and open economy, which we really are, we're not going to be the first to get out of the crisis. So we'll go out with the rest of the world. In the end, let me say we're in charge for us. So, because of us all states are in debt as people in difficult times use their credit cards more, the state is in difficult times in debt primarily because of its citizens and to help and encourage its economy, to reduce the number of unemployed or to at least reduce the number of unemployed. So we're in debt because of us, and I expect that with the rate of economic growth that will be higher than planned, especially next year, these loans will be easier to repay. In the end, I think that the time when the poet was some argument of the past, I really hope that people who continue to use their fists instead of human arguments are the past. Please think again, that we are not alone, nor the first to be in charge, that this borrowing is still controlled and that in the voting day, by voting for these laws, you confirm that you are voting for the 2010 and 2011 budget, for what you have already voted on in its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46272	I'm concluding a joint principle and uniform search. I set a break of one hour, we continue at 16 hours and 25 minutes, and the first one will be given to Mrs Tabakovic after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46273	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We move to the 23-29rd item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON CONCERNATION OF THE CONCERNATION WITH THE PRESSION OF THE PRESSION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CESKE AND MALTA, WITH THE AZERBJAN ON TRADE AND THE ECONOMY SARADNJI, WITH THE BIH AND EGIPT ON THE SRAP OF THE CROSS OF THE CROATIA AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUDES AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTITUTITUTITUTITUTITUTITUTITUTITUTITUTION OF THE RETUTION OF THE RETUTIONS AND THE RETUTION OF THE RETUTIONS AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE RETUTION, Notice of the invited ana session. I hereby inform the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to apply. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, on a joint single search on the proposals for the laws of the 23rd to 29th agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motionist Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society and Verice Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, invited the sittings to attend both Vesna Arsic, Nebojsa Ćirić and Goran Petković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Marjanović, Renata Pinjo and Milan Josipović, Assistant Ministers of Economy and Regional Development, Jasmina Rosic and Vera Janković, Head of Department in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Stanka Radan, Ljiljana Milić and Slavica Višnić, Head of Regional Development in the Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of the Ministry of Regional Development and Regional Development of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on draft laws under points 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 170, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MEP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46274	I advertised, or pointed out, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Novakovic did not give me a word, when it was the right time, so here I am taking the opportunity to point out that a injured member of the 116th member who says that the rules of conduct concern all those involved in the work of the session, and in connection with Article 107, where the speaker, Madam Minister, injured the dignity of the National Assembly by the debate of the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46275	People's MPs, the speaker at the National Assembly's session, can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Only the chairman can do that. Please do not abuse the right of a member who implies your right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to read carefully the provisions that allow you to indicate the injury. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46276	Mrs. Komic, in accordance with Article 27, which you are obliged to maintain order and to carry out the affairs of the current chairman, I point out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure in terms of a violation of dignity and if you intend to wear me out in such a debate, I will wait for Mrs. Kalanovic to speak, to give the opening statement and certainly say in which way a member of the 116 was injured. Rules of Procedure, if you don't allow me this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46277	I ask you not to deceive the public and the present MPs, as well as anyone who monitors the transmission. Of course you're allowed to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You are not allowed, or any other participant in the session, to abuse rights or to believe that you alone have the right to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 116 says the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the session apply to other participants at the National Assembly session. In its first position, article 107 says – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and Article 103, on the basis of which you get the word that you are talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, says - the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which are done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress and immediately after the injury done. I warned you that you were misusing the rights of Article 103 after you said that another participant at the session, not the chairman, violated a 107 member who said that the speaker at the National Assembly was obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Since I am under the obligation to give the necessary instructions, which are necessary for the MPs to work, then I am telling you that the next time you want to point to an injury, then you should say that the chairman has violated Article 107(1) and that you can explain it, because it is only possible that there is no abuse of Article 103(1), which allows Members of Parliament to indicate to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure made by the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46278	I've always been a good student, Mrs. Comic, and since I haven't pointed to a violation of Article 107(1), here I point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that the speaker, Mrs. Minister, which is covered by the provisions of Article 116...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46279	People's MPs, you can't talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure done by anyone but the chairman. Once again, Article 103(1) of the Rules of Procedure shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if it considers that it does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the infringement has been done. Would you like to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46280	Mrs. Comic, I'm surprised. You usually keep an excellent track of the work at the session. I said that Mr. Novakovic, the chairman of that moment, did not give me the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46281	People's emissaries, right after the injury was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46282	I didn't get a chance because he interrupted the session and gave it a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46283	National MPs, once again, Article 103(1), the MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the infringement has been done. Your desire to talk about the injury being committed before the break is in line with Article 103 and since I am obliged to assist the MPs, then you can talk about the violation of the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that is, to say that an injured member of Article 103(1) has been injured and to explain what the injury consists of. Thank you. Would you like to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46284	In accordance with Article 103(1), I am telling you what I said and at the beginning – the impotence of the Prime Minister's presidency and the inability to explain the law here on the agenda was just a matter of disabling MPs, i.e. That's what I'm talking about. You've said enough about it yourself. I don't want to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46285	I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Dejan Radenkovic, MP of the SPS-JS. Are there any other Members of the People? If the MPs' groups decide to have another authorised representative, I ask that we be provided with information that we can notify the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Mutual Encouraging and Protection of Investments signed on 13 October 1997, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Malta on Mutual Encouragement and the Protection of Investments, Proposal for the Law on the Law of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Trade and the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia on the European Union with the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law of Lisbon. Does the proposing representative, Verica Kalanovic, the NIP minister, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46286	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a contract-law today. Ratification has been waiting for the past few months. They aim to improve economic relations or foster bilateral co-operation, especially in the area of the economy, between Serbia and countries in the EU environment, as well as other countries in the world. These are bill proposals and a proposal for a protocol between the government of the Republic of Serbia and BiH, Malta, the Czech Republic, Azerbaijan and Egypt. It is clear that the objective of strengthening economic relations is related to the ratification of these contracts, but also to overall co-operation in trade, science, infrastructure and techniques. These agreements are based on the foundations of equality, mutual benefit and the creation of favourable grounds for further co-operation. As more detailed insight into the ratification of these documents has given you the opportunity to get to know each other, there are four areas to which these laws and protocols are bound. I would say exactly in the areas, given that it is type documents and that they are contracts or those laws that are related to bilateral co-operation between the two countries are not very different. Let me talk about them in general, first of all, the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic in the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic, I took as an initial document and as an example of an extremely good co-operation between the two friendly countries, which turned into an extremely successful economic co-operation, which was launched by the basic agreement on economic co-operation, but which at the third meeting of the Joint Committee on Economic Co-operation in November 2009. In this respect, a protocol is initiated which provides for economic and technical co-operation to be extended to the infrastructure area through the so-called joint financing arrangements and joint implementation of projects. Let me remind you, it's not the first protocol we sign. One was signed with the Republic of China and one with Turkey. This is about a protocol that defines co-operation in the area of infrastructure, with a pilot project related to the modernisation and reconstruction of railway corridor 10 and the electrification of the Nis-Belgrade railway section. As is known, this Protocol implies co-operation in the area of financing, technical cooperation through exchange of experiences and technologies, but also through joint implementation of the performance contract. One such contract represents the improvement of co-operation defined by the basic agreement and represents one of the best examples of the continuation of economic and technical co-operation defined by the basic agreements. The other two laws are the proposals for the law to encourage and protect investment, and these are the laws to confirm the Agreement on mutual incentive and protection of investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Malta and to confirm the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Mutual Encouragement and the Protection of Investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic. To remind us, the Republic of Serbia has so far signed 44 bilateral agreements on mutual incentive and investment protection with different countries, including all the former Yugoslav republics and almost all EU member states. These agreements provide a framework for favourable conditions for the investment of one country's legal and natural persons on the territory of another. They define concrete solutions, but also legal standards. When I say concrete solutions, countries give each other fair and equal treatment of the most privileged nation in terms of investment, but also certain legal standards related to compensation in the expropriation or other similar measure of the state for the compensation of losses that a foreign investor may suffer because of so-called. more force, the right to transfer revenue from investment, the right to international arbitration in the event of a dispute between a foreign investor and a country hosting investment. These two agreements clearly aim to increase investment both by investors from our country's territory and investors who come to our country with the ultimate goal of increasing industrial production, increasing exports and increasing employment in our country's territory. The other two laws are laws in the area of economic co-operation, and this is the proposal for a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on trade and economic co-operation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Egypt on economic, technical and scientific co-operation. These two proposals define bilateral co-operation between the two countries by creating a framework, creating long-term conditions for co-operation in the area of the economy in general, but also in individual and priority areas. And these agreements are based on equality and respect for mutual benefit. The parties to the agreement agreed to approve each other's treatment of the most privileged nation related to customs duties and any regulations relating to imports and exports. The parties are ready to exchange information in the fields of legislation and economic programmes. The parties provide each other with assistance in organising fairs, exhibitions and similar events. The Republic of Azerbaijan provides for the establishment of a mixed commission on trade and economic co-operation, and with the Arab Republic of Egypt the establishment of a mixed committee on economic, technical and scientific co-operation. The agreements provide for regular annual meetings of committees or commissions tasked with proposing and monitoring measures to develop the economic co-operation of party signatories. Finally, two tourism laws, a bill to confirm a co-operation agreement in the field of tourism and councils of BiH ministers and another Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Arab Republic of Egypt. These are two international agreements aimed at strengthening tourism links and completing contractual regulation between the states signatories of these contracts aimed at strengthening co-operation in the field of tourism, encouraging a common tourist product, creating conditions for the safe stay of tourists in both countries, the way in which individual disputes are resolved if they occur and exchange of information and experts. Finally, I would remind you, at this point in the field of tourism co-operation between these two countries is intense, but it is significantly less than both potential and potential. Bosnia and Herzegovina took second place last year on the arrival of its citizens as tourists to Serbia with about 64,000 visits, representing a total of 10% of the total tourist entry into Serbia. Also, to remind us that 40,000 Serbian tourists went on vacation to Egypt, and these two agreements represent one significant framework for expanding co-operation, but also for raising the tourist offer of both countries. Dear MPs, I think that the ratifications of the agreement always represent those documents that have been studied in detail, seen and defined certain areas. I think these seven contractual documents are also a good basis for Serbia's further development of economic co-operation with the countries mentioned, and I hope that you will support their ratification by your votes in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46287	Before we continue the session, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group will be Lidija Dimitrijevic's MP. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Dejan Nikolic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46288	Mrs. Kalanovic, respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia, I don't know why the ratification waited a few months if we are absolutely not in a position to influence the agenda that is forming here? If there's any damage to the long wait, I'd like you to bring them out here. What can be seen on this occasion is that we really need to support any kind of co-operation that is being established with the world, because this small and poor in resources like energy resources, but rich in history, tradition, tourist attractions and open to foreign investment, we can really just welcome these and these agreements. But has one of these concluded agreements been submitted to the Serbian Assembly through any body, through any organisation or agency on the effects of such an agreement? For example, about increasing traffic, about increasing the number of nights, about sharing some scientific achievements or something? Or will you, on behalf of the one whom you represent today, act as we have had the opportunity to discuss the loans that are taken to cover the budget deficits, be in the debate disqualified as people who seek the effects of the law on which they vote, to place a harsh thesis that we are against maternity, children, powerless, old and endangered? My reaction was because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can take someone's word for it, but you can't lift the truth. If MPs comment that there are budget disbursements, where there are 120 agencies, from which these agencies are paid, I can read individually, ranging from 120,000 dinars to 350,000 dinars per director, if the Republic of Serbia's budget plans to capitalise 100m euros, if more than 50 billion are spent through quasi-banks, where the Development Fund is only a commission authority, if we have abuses through the Export Insurance Agency, and the documentation, it is really embarrassing and offensive to use the possibility that Mr. Novakovic interrupts the opportunity for the MP to advertise and declare a break, and the next chairman says - you have no right to say. I don't want anyone in this country to understand the opposition or me as Yorvanka Tabakovic by opposition to his children Serbia and Serbia's future. We give you arguments for better work. It is also a criticism because it is the nature of parliamentaryism. And for example, for these agreements of yours, I say - why is there none of these agreements for the expected effects that should come out of this co-operation? For example, should JAT be credited if, with the Czech Republic or with the Russian Federation, we had an agreement to protect foreign investments, where their airlines did not have to shut down their activities because they had to stop working illegally, I say? The complaints about this are at the Ministry of Infrastructure. They still don't have a decision to make, and we're making some new agreement on protecting mutual investment. So, these stories are not separate and one cannot be silenced by the one who makes a legitimate remark that protecting investment means allowing someone to know exactly what documentation they need, to protect them from all those who can keep them quiet by the administration or by setting up obstacles that are not prescribed by law, but, in fact, they exist, that these investments and investments do indeed come. It's not enough to brag about the number of laws passed, the number of agreements we made with someone, and not actually work on them at all, complaining that we don't have the capacity or that we don't have the conditions. The finance minister has been complaining to us, rightly, that there are not enough quality people in the state administration to do many of these jobs. I agree. Probably not. But is the government able to redistribute where it is scattered and invests in quality and young people who can do these jobs? I doubt that, too, and I am making an observation, and I do not allow anyone to distort criticism that is not a criticism but an argument to the authority that in its own self-involvement and results tries to convince the rest of us, for example, by interviewing Nikola Stankov in the "Economist" list, that in the Civil Aviation Directorate, everything is so beautiful and that honey and milk flow. And we know, and you know, that in the Constitutional Court there is an illegal establishment of that organisation and the Aviation Control Agency. Guys, don't think the government is immutable. They repeat their claim – all of us were once power or we will be. But we're citizens forever and ever. The legality, the culture of communication and the effects of the laws we make – that is what we will be remembered for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46289	Minister Verica Kalanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46290	I'd like to get back to the agenda. The work of the agencies, Flight Controls, the Commercial Banks, is likely subject to some other documents, but simply for the sake of the public and Serbian citizens today I would have to answer that agreements are not signed so that they travel around the world and remain an empty letter on paper. An excellent cause for this is a mixed commission which, from November 2nd to November 4, means, something that was completely fresh in Minsk, not full week ago, and I am extremely pleased that, together with me, there was one of the MPs sitting here today, but as an economicist. In a year, more specifically, since 31 March when the Free Trade Agreement was signed, and between the two meetings of the Mixed Commission with another country, under another agreement ratified by this National Assembly, with Belarus, trade and economic co-operation, measured in exchange, increased by twice -- from $47m in 2009, to 81 by the first nine months, or measured by indicators for the same time period in 2009 compared to 108% in 2010. What does that mean exactly? To be more than just agreements, ratifications or papers, the fact is that compared to the meeting of the Mixed Commission in Minsk, our company's "Simpo" salon is open at one of the most attractive locations, with the possibility that through a strategic partnership with a Belarusian partner, it places its goods on exports to the Belarusian area. This salon is nothing but a very good co-operation that was established in the sale of their products in the last year with Belarus. Also, in order not to be something fictitious, Agropanka from a city from which you, Mrs Tabakovic, have established a joint venture with a Belarusian company to start working on production, first one, and then several other types of tractors on our country's territory, and also from a town from which you are not you, but also one big city, in Kragujevac a joint company with mine car companies and company "Vulović" in Kragujevac for bus production. Only in this way, through strategic co-operation, through improving bilateral and economic relations, through frequent contacts, exchanges of knowledge and experience, but also through contractual and legal basis related to laws, ratification of laws, agreements and contracts, we can improve our exports, we can improve the competitiveness of our products, create a quality framework and employ our people. Therefore, these agreements are extremely important. That is why I really call for us to return to the agenda, agreements that will lead to improved bilateral co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the signatories countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46291	Ambassador Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what can be seen at first sight when reading these draft laws on confirming the agreement is that we can clearly divide them into two groups. The first group includes agreements with the Czech Republic and the Republic of Malta, while the second agreements are with the Republic of Azerbaijan, BiH and the Arab Republic of Egypt. Such a division is the result of the introduction into these agreements of provisions relating to territory. Thus, in an agreement with Malta in Article 1 as one of the definitions of what the term territory stands for in relation to Serbia, and what about Malta. As the first amendment to the basic agreement with the Czech Republic, there is a definition of what the concept of territory means about the Republic of Serbia and what about the Czech Republic. The second group of agreements with Azerbaijan, BiH and Egypt does not contain such provisions. This is very important to point out, because Serbian representatives of the same agreement, as the minister said - the type agreement, consists in different ways, depending on the other party. This is how the contract will be concluded, i.e. The agreement will be made up, depending on whether the other contracting party is an EU member and whether it respects the state integrity of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, did she recognize the self-proclaimed independence of the so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. Both the Czech Republic and Malta are EU members and both have officially recognised Kosovo's independence. That's why agreements with them specify what territorial expression means for one side and what for the other. Now I will say something about a trade and economic co-operation agreement with Azerbaijan, a Caucasus country that is an important political and economic factor in the Caspian region and at the crossroads of Eastern Europe and Western Asia. It's a state that's economically extremely powerful. Last year, she ended up with a seven billion-dollar positive balance. Otherwise, there are about 8 million inhabitants. In Baku, the capital city, the company's representation of Bentley Motors sold, believe it or not, 57 cars for a year. The Azerbaijani embassy opened in March of this year. According to their ambassador, Serbia has good potential, especially when it comes to the Danube, ports on it. The businessmen of Azerbaijan are very interested in transporting this direction. They are interested in co-operation in the sphere of energy, agriculture, privatisation of industry, as well as the possibility of investing in Serbia. Azerbaijan is very rich in oil and gas. In recent years, it has been investing more and more in chemical industry, agriculture, mining, industry, engineering, pharmaceutical technology. So, in those areas that are not directly related to oil and gas, Serbia is seen as its co-worker. Serbia is interested in developing co-operation in the sector of agriculture, energy, petrochemicals, pharmacies, tourism, construction, etc. Serbia exports to Azerbaijan products from the metallurgical industry, food and medicine. In 2009, trade between the two countries amounted to $5m, or 5.2m, respectively, of which Serbian exports to Azerbaijan were 4.2m, and imports of millions of dollars, with the possibility of growth of trade in goods being much higher. This agreement defined that the parties to trade between them would approve the treatment of the most privileged nation for goods originating in the territory of the countries of the party. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of this agreement certification law, it is stated, and given that the level of trade achieved does not record results that correspond to the economic potential of the two countries, it is realistic to expect that the signing of that agreement will create conditions for increasing mutual trade between them, in particular, by increasing exports of products and services from the Republic of Serbia to the Azerbaijan market and establishing higher forms of co-operation. We will see government representatives in Serbia take advantage of these opportunities on the mentioned market. In this group of agreements there are two agreements with the Arab Republic of Egypt. One refers to economic, scientific and technical co-operation, and the other to co-operation in the field of tourism. As far as this first agreement is concerned, it was stated that its signing was initiated by the Republic of Egypt, still in the area of economic co-operation, still in force from 1957 and 1961, which was extended in 2006. It further noted that Egypt was one of Serbia's most important economic partners among developing countries. The two countries' economic co-operation in the previous period characterised the development and diversity of forms of co-operation, while the current economic co-operation contained only partially represents a continuation of the two countries' earlier very successful relations. This means that in previous years Serbia has missed new chances, as it could have far greater volume of direct trade with Egypt, to participate in the exchange of new technologies and human knowledge in the realisation of investment and research projects. On the other hand, there is not enough opportunity for Egyptian investors, either in the privatisation process, or in direct investments. According to the Egyptian ambassador to Serbia, there is room for improving investment and for joint ventures with great potential in tourism, pharmaceutical industry, telecommunications, information technologies, agrobusiness, furniture industry, chemicals, fertilisers, food and car industry and technology transfer. As for the Republic of Egypt, it has a stable business environment, with a widespread economy, led by the private sector, competitive incentives, a local market of 85 million residents and free trade agreements offering access to large markets in the various trade blocks of Africa, the Arab world and the EU. Since 2004, the total domestic product in Egypt has grown at an average annual rate of around 7.1%. In addition, Egypt was protected from the devastating effects of the global financial crisis, and then the national economy recorded GDP growth of 4.8% in 2009. The same day as this agreement, an agreement on co-operation in the field of tourism was signed. It is known that a large number of tourists from our Serbia choose Egypt for their vacation. However, Serbia's tourism potential is quite untapped and it is good that the agreement stresses the need to present the Republic of Serbia in a much better way in the fields of health, congress tourism and monastery tours, as this offer could have a good standing. Speaking of congress tourism in Serbia, in recent years, tourist workers could only remember the time when the country hosted various meetings, although there are certain indications that the situation could be improved, as the World Congress Association ranked Serbia 55th on its list. The fact is that Serbia has congress potentials, but besides Belgrade and Novi Sad it should encourage various tourism branches in mountainous and Banjian cities. A more diverse and quality offer would make the country more competitive. For the development of these places, such as Zlatibor, Kopalnik, Palić, Fruska Gora, which, apart from facilities and peaks, have to offer various other attractions, requires a lot of investment in hotels, congress halls and investment of the state in infrastructure. Belgrade's Tourist Organisation found that more hotel facilities of the respective categories were missing, so they could compete for meetings of three to five thousand participants. The lack of accommodation only partially exceeded Belgrade and Novi Sad, but it would be a problem if a congress was held for more than 5,000 participants, as they would have nowhere to be placed. Otherwise, business people or congressional tourists are very demanding, so they need to offer many attractions in the immediate environment in addition to their congress and accommodation facilities. They use hotel facilities, they're ready to get to know the place they're staying, they want trips where they'd meet the sights, they buy souvenirs and everything they need to stay. It is therefore desirable that convention centers be in those places that provide these facilities in their spare time. Zlatibor, according to those who deal with the tourist offer, is ideal for small-scale congress tourism, i.e. for gatherings of up to 300 participants. That mountain has a very diverse offer. Any spare moment can be spent elsewhere. There's Syrogogy, there's lakes and other places. However, in Zlatibor, as in other parts of the country, new investments are needed to satisfy the offer of tourists who are used to the best. Serbia has defined congress business as one of the first products to be developed with the tourism development strategy. If it is not just a letter left on paper, if it is done, it could be counted on significant revenues, as business people who come to meetings tend to stay for several days and spend several thousand euros. The data released shows that about 2350 euros are spent on average for three days. The obvious problem in Serbia is that, in addition to problems with accommodation capacity, there is a problem with people, as potential organisers wait for an answer for seven days, while the world standard for information to be obtained within 150 minutes. This is all clearly saying that the whole environment has to change. Defeating data from the world's economic forum several days ago that shows that Serbia takes 122nd place in the country's 133nd competition. According to the update and issue of construction permits, Serbia is in 176th place, and this research was conducted by the World Bank, and when it comes to corruption, we are in 78th place last year, together with Colombia, Peru, Thailand, China and Greece. According to the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, in late August, about a billion dollars of direct investment entered Serbia, and that is few, the example of Montenegro, which is eight times smaller than Serbia, has been confirmed by 670 million investments. The World Bank and international financial corporations ranked Serbia 74th. On the issue of organised crime, we are in 109th place, and according to the independence of the judiciary in 110th place, and Serbia ranks 130th in the efficiency of the anti-monopolistic policy in the 130th place of the country. I mentioned earlier that data from the world's economic forum show that Serbia was ranked 122nd in the state of infrastructure from the total 133nd country. I will refer to the Law confirming the protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic, with an agreement on economic co-operation. This Protocol concerns co-operation in the area of infrastructure, as this area was not covered by the basic economic co-operation agreement. Foreign Contracting Parties agreed that the priority of co-operation at the moment is the modernisation and reconstruction of the railway Corridor 10, the Nis-Dimitrovgrad project, with a mixed committee being able to propose other priorities. In Article 9, paragraph 3. The protocol was said that in order to finance this priority project, the competent authorities of the Contracting States will consider the prepared financial reliefs of the Czech Export Bank, acceptable to the state, by a foreign contracting party as a borrower or guaranteeer. This means continuing practice for the Republic of Serbia and that almost every project must be credited abroad. As for the concrete project, the reconstruction of railway corridor 10, the story of its realization is a little longer. Just a reminder, the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway, the Bulgarian border, was built in 1888, it is 104 metres long, it has one track. Otherwise, this railway has great national and international importance, it is among the most important highways of Europe, E 70, is part of the European Corridor 10 plan and is located in the Southeastern European railway network. The reconstruction of this railway work has been presented many times as a priority, in fact every year since this government was formed, first in 2008, the Minister of Infrastructure said that loans from international banks have been granted for the railway part of the Corridor, although he announced that the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway would be completed in 2009, already in the spring of the same year until the move of the job. Then, investment director Železnica Serbia said on March 12th 2009 that a tender for the refurbishment and rehabilitation of the Dimitrovgrad-Niš railway, 60km long, will be announced in June, and works should begin in October. By the end of 2009, the works had not started and then the reconstruction of this work was announced for the third time as a priority, and announced by the CEO of Železnica. In the following year, priority projects will be building a Belgrade railway node, reconstruction and electrification of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line. So that's the end of December 2009. Given that nothing happened, this protocol was signed in May 2010, and the first project was announced to be just the restoration of this disputed section of the railway, and that for this purpose the Czech expert bank would grant the Serbian government a 120m-euro loan to electrify that section of the railway. The work will take about three and a half to four years. Those are the words of the director of the railroad. As we can see, there have already been some loans, and new ones are planned, and when this railroad is done, we'll see. All in all, whenever she's mentioned, there's an immediate mention of the loan. I'm going to finish this discussion by reminding you of what I said at the beginning. Does a government that calls itself responsible have the right to sign international agreements with such provisions, which apply to territory, which we have in our agreements with the Republic of Malta and the Czech Republic? The territory is a territory for each Contracting Party and this term cannot be different for the different signatories of the Agreement. In these agreements there is obviously no equality between the parties, because it is countries that do not respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and it is clearly expressed by different interpretations of territory. Therefore, the view of the SRS is that international agreements set on such an unequal basis, on an unhealthy basis, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should in no way have signed in this form, i.e. with different definitions of territory, or to be confirmed by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46293	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to work according to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for the laws set out in the agenda. I give my word to MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46294	Ladies and gentlemen, developing good neighbourly relations and signing interstate agreements with BiH is of first-class importance for Serbia and the Serb people, because BiH is the home state of the Serbian people, Orthodox, Roman Catholic and Islamic religions. The signing of this agreement will in any case contribute to making it easier for citizens and other countries to reach those tourist destinations they are interested in. What bothers me, however, is that I get the impression that these relations between BiH and Serbia are developing exclusively by constantly making certain concessions on the political and economic agenda, often at its own expense. I believe that the signing of certain interstate agreements with BiH, due to this recent past, should be conditioned by resolving some issues that burden relations between the two states and relations between the two nations. Without it, there is no reconciliation between Serbs and Muslims, and without reconciliation between Serbs and Muslims there is no reconciliation and there is no good relationship between BiH and Serbia. The first thing Belgrade must demand is that war rhetoric and hate speech against Serbia and Republika Srpska are stopped in Sarajevo and the Federation of BiH. Speakings by former BiH presidency member Haris Silajdzic, the top religious head of the Islamic community, Mustafa Ceric and some other Muslim champions and officials, are full of pathological hatred for everything that is Serbian and Serbian. When you follow the Federation of BiH information programme, the situation is even worse. It is simply difficult to take away the impression that the war in BiH is over. In the programme, Serbia is still an aggressor to BiH, Serbs are Chetniks and criminals, and Republika Srpska's genocide that needs to be abolished as soon as possible. On the other hand, Naser Oric, Sefer Halilovic, Alija Izetbegovic and Muslims are even innocents. The only thing that somehow got away with causing war and killing more than 20,000 Serbs in that war. Simply, persistent and systematic Serbs are being imposed on the role of the on-call culprit and some remethylative factor in BiH and it creates a sense of hatred between the two peoples in BiH. Compared to media, a campaign is being conducted against Serbs through BiH's judicial system. Practically all Serbian men who have been expelled or escaped from BiH are due to a judicial... This is the topic, because I'm talking about relations between the two states. Practically, it doesn't take a month for the BiH prosecutor's office to press charges against the crimes committed during the war. Of the 10 indictments filed by the Sarajevo prosecutor's office, nine were brought against Serbs, one was brought against Muslims or against Croats. (President: I'm sorry, I've been really trying to find a thread that connects you to the subject, and I'm not. Please try to compare the vocabulary theme a little bit. Thank you. Do you know what this is about? We are discussing an interstate agreement between BiH and Serbia. If the two states sign an interstate agreement, then the topics of debate in parliament, one or another state must, in any case, be the whole relationship between the two states and the two nations. I will also deal with some topics of particular concern for tourism later, but I felt I had the right to make one such introduction because I point to an unfair position of the Serb people in BiH and point out the need for the Republic of Serbia to make certain efforts to improve this relationship with the Serbian people as a result of signing interstate contracts. Third, I believe that Serbia should raise the issue of elimination of ethnic cleansing committed over the Serb people in BiH on the agenda of the talks with Sarajevo. First of all, I mean conditions, creating conditions for the exiled Serbs to return to BiH. I remind you that several hundred thousand people have been expelled from the Federation of BiH. I'll give you just a few examples so that, as you say, I can return to the topic and tourism. There were 160,000 Serbs living in Sarajevo before the war. Now seven thousand Serbs live in Sarajevo. More than 5,000 Serbs from Sarajevo were killed, 140,000 were expelled in the war or several months after the end of the war, and 15,000 Serbs moved out of Sarajevo in the postwar years. Why are Serbs moving out of Sarajevo? Because, by all accounts, citizens are second-class citizens. It is almost impossible for a Serb in Sarajevo to get a job in the state institution, and the possibility of a Serb getting a leading job in the economy or a political function is a mental noun. Now let's deal with some tourist issues. One of the biggest tourist attractions in BiH is High. Fans of the figure and works of Ali Izetbegovic, archaeologists claim they found a pyramid at a local site near the High. They suddenly found that one mountain above the High was not a mountain but a pyramid, one 50 times larger than the Egyptian pyramids. I remind you that the high times of the Middle Ages were the headquarters of the Bosnian medieval state and the headquarters of several Bosnian kings. What does this have to do with tourism? It has to do with what tourists come to High, hoping to see the pyramid. What I'm trying to say is that there's a much greater possibility that tourists who come to the Highly Happy Living Pharaoh than to meet a living Serb. Why am I saying this? Because there are 57 Serb villages in the Visih area where Serbs were a 100% population by April 2nd 1992. There's no living soul in those villages right now. Once again, I remind you of one of the most famous Bosnian Sevdalin women who read: "From Igman to look beautiful, where Bosnia spills far away." When you look from Igman, you see Bosnia, you see on one side of life, you see the villages where you live, these are Muslim villages, and on the other side you see the weeds of the healed ruins. Serbs killed or exiled, orchards and forests cut down, churches torn down, cemeteries destroyed, fields unsupervised. The next tourist attraction in BiH is the waterfall "Higher" on Ozren, which is about 80m high. It was and remained one of the largest waterfalls in the area of the former Yugoslavia and the Balkans. With the waterfall, tourists who came before the war could see beautiful Serb villages, developed, with certain tourist facilities. These villages even had the opportunity to develop what you now call rural tourism. Now tourists who come to see the waterfall "Higher" can see more than 30 completely destroyed Serb villages in Ozren, which are under Muslim rule, located in the territory of the Federation of BiH and whose letters and numbers do not live on a single living soul. I point to a few more facts. Kupres, also a tourist resort, Olympic terrain, winter Olympic centre, four cablers, hotels A and B categories. It built 700 people from Split and Dubrovnik. What's the problem? The problem with this agreement on tourism co-operation between Serbia and BiH is not a problem, but the problem is not a problem. The problem is the authorities in Serbia. Before the war, 60% of Serbs lived in Kupres, a total of 4,500 Serbs. Now, in Kupres, there is a letter and number of seven Serbs over the age of 60, in Tomislavgrad nine Serbs, there is no Serb in Capljina, in the old Serbian town of Key, which is an extremely touristic attraction, an old fortress in Key, in which Serbian nobles Kotomanic resisted the Turkish occupier, the letter and number of living 18 Serbs. In Bihac, and I don't have to list all the tourist potentials of Bihac, you've probably read Branko Copić and you know what it is, before the war there were 16,000 Serbs, now there are 380. I will provide another piece of information, a very important data that Serbia, as the country of origin of the Serbian people, should take care of. At least 70 Serb settlements in the Federation of BiH, with a total population of 15,000, including 2,000 children, still lack electricity, and I remind you that 15 years have passed since the war. I propose that the Republic of Serbia invest those 10m euros for the award for the arrest of Ratko Mladic in infrastructure, in developing these villages, in bringing electricity to these villages, so that these settlements can develop rural tourism and receive tourists from Serbia. The fourth issue the two countries have to resolve is the issue of demarcation between the two countries and BiH's attempt to insinuate in one way the huge natural, economic, but also the tourism potentials of the Republic of Serbia. BiH has been using several thousand hectares of land for years, mostly in the Drina River Valley, owned by the Republic of Serbia. For the citizens who are monitoring this transmission, it is probably an amazing fact that even the border crossings of BiH towards Serbia, the Raca border crossing of the Pavlovic Bridge are located in the territory of Serbia. This situation has been caused by the shift of the river Drina trough. The Drina River eventually moved to Serbia's territory. Earlier, the border was set in the middle of the Drina River, now authorities in Sarajevo want to exploit this nature action and move the Drina River and border with Serbia into the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, they insist that the natural border is a river and that the border should go in the middle of the river, which is also practiced in interstate relations. However, it is clear that in this case it cannot be applied, for the reason that the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia is being violated. In this way, BiH wants to kidnap not only a few thousand hectares of land on the left bank of Drina, not only attractive tourist potentials in the Zvornik area, Bajina Basta, Perućca area, but also two hydrodes. I'm just pointing out one important piece of information, the participants of the Drinska regatta know a little better what I'm talking about, when hydrothermia was built on the Drina, in Zvornik and Baja Basta, from the first to the last dinar their construction was funded by the Republic of Serbia. Under an agreement between the government in Belgrade and the government in Sarajevo, Serbia bought land and became the owner of the land on which hydro- and land were built that was submerged by the accumulation of the zornica lake and the lake near Bajina Basta. From the point of view of this law, it is important that BiH also seeks to become co-owners of unsustainable tourist potentials in the disputed area in the Drina River Valley. Interstate talks on the issue have been under way for ten years. However, there is no movement, although there is a joint commission, because the government in Sarajevo does not want to make any compromise. Last thing I'm going to say is a few words from one of the most famous tourist sites in BiH. It is a significant cultural and historical Serbian heritage, and I point to it for the reason I believe that the Republic of Serbia, when signing such an agreement, would have to take more account of the protection of Serbia's historical and cultural heritage which, in any case, also represents BiH's tourist potential. Namely, the unforgiving part of all the trips from Serbia to Sarajevo, all the tourists' visits to Sarajevo, was also visited by places and exhibits that were linked to the Sarajevo assassination in 1914, for Gavril Principe and "Young Bosnia". The Youth of Bosnia Museum is closed. Most museum exhibits have been destroyed. You know which exhibits were destroyed? Those exhibits related to "Young Bosnia" and Gabriel Principe have been destroyed, and the exhibits relating to Franco Ferdinand, the Austro-Hungarian occupier, are not touched. The memorial plate that existed at the site of the assassination, on the building of the Sarajevo Council, ended up in Miljacka. At the point where Gavrilo Principe fired, it was also a tourist attraction, there was one mention of the mark, it was the rates of Gavril Principe. Those rates were intruding and watered with concrete. What's most important is that there is no more Gavril Principe Bridge in Sarajevo, now the bridge is called the France Ferdinand Bridge. This violence against Serbian cultural and historical heritage, over the tourist offer of Serbia's Sarajevo, was explained by a scientific explanation based on the moral principles and opinion of Muslim authorities in Sarajevo that Gavrilo is the principle of Chetnik and terrorist, the predecessors Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, although there are those who claim that he is a participant of a joint criminal enterprise with them, and the Crown Prince of the Austrian and German Army commander who kept BiH under occupation, according to Muslim champions in Sarajevo, was a fine gentleman and friend of BiH. What stands out most as his merit and proof of friendship with BiH is that he advocated a military occupation of BiH. I remind you that Franc Ferdinand came to BiH as commander of the Austro-Hungarian army to review the units that were conducting maneuvers along the Drina River and prepared to commit aggression against the Republic of Serbia. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is a brutal attempt to end the history of an event that has an exceptional significance in the historical, moral, psychological sense, for a complete Serbian people, for the Republic of Serbia and for the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the Republic of Serbia, as the country of origin of the Serbian people, as a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement and the existence of such a Dayton BiH, is obliged to oppose this attempt. In particular, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before signing this agreement, would also have to ask the Muslim authorities in Sarajevo to return their name to the Gavrila Principe bridge on Miljacki.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46295	Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs Dejanovic, I think, I also think that all the colleagues of the SRS, that Vocabulary Dusan Maric was not at all an inappropriate place to be. On the contrary, someone in Serbia must also talk about Serbian victims. We can't just apologize from Potočar to Vukovar, or I don't know where else we're gonna end up...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46297	Mr. Stevanović, I'm really sorry, on the subject of tourism I don't think the vocabulary was appropriate, I wasn't talking about the inappropriateness of the topic of space, I was talking about the agenda. You didn't understand me very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46298	If you'd let me finish, you'd see us thinking the same thing. Now, you see, in order for someone to develop and improve economic relations, among other things, and tourism, there's actually a bunch of things that have to be solved before that, and in order to solve them, we have to accept the fact that there are two sides in the war and that there were one victims, and we were, for God's sake, victims. Since the government is not prepared and defined to talk about these victims, insisting on those other parties to respect the agreements, the obligations they have signed through the agreements with this country, to enable, above all, Serbs to return to where they have been expelled and to establish everything else that arises from these agreements, you know, then we cannot talk about serious, economic and progress, and co-operation and improvement of tourism. Someone, I repeat, needs to talk about it in the Assembly and Serbia. You, Madam Minister, have received one serious question from here. My colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic asked you about the agreement with Malta, and it concerns definition and territory. It would be correct to tell us what defined the concept of territory the way you defined it in this agreement? This agreement, I think, was signed by the president of your party, Mr Dinkic. Mr. Dinkic never hid it? One of the first moves he praised was that the state was disbursed by a debt related to loans to KIM. That's how $400 million was at the Paris and London Club. That might have been last year. In this agreement, the policy that your party is running is clearly being translated, but so is the policy that the DS is leading, so I'm even going to take a step further to say that your boss has the courage to show it, and they're lying to the citizens. They say Kosovo is in the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, and they are doing everything they can to avoid it. They are doing everything to confirm the story that you have brought into this agreement and not to have any problems or concerns with the public, but also with fellow MPs sitting here, it is said that territory in relation to the Republic of Serbia, the expression of territory marks the territory over which the Republic of Serbia exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with its national legislation and international law. Does this mean that the agreement will not apply to KIM territory, which the majority say is in the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, that is, part of the Republic of Serbia? That would be nice if you told us. Countries that are not in the EU, with which we sign agreements on this definition, have not insisted. This is what Malta is looking for as an EU member, this is what the Czech Republic is looking for as an EU member, we want an answer. Why didn't you write clearly and decadently, if you really don't think this can or shouldn't be applied? We are not aware, or unaware of the fact that the implementation of such agreements is disputed at KIM, but we have to look to these and similar documents for logistics in our diplomatic efforts to never hand over this territory, but you are not prepared for such a thing, that is your policy, but do not deceive the public and citizens in election campaigns for the presidential, parliamentary elections and for the campaign you are obviously preparing for and entering. That's incorrect, and the public needs to know that. With the SRS, no one has problems, dilemmas, and misunderstandings. That's the way it is and that's not the way it is. We are not interested in the EU, if the price is KIM. If we don't need it, and these agreements say, but you're not ready to talk about such steps, you're not ready to talk fairy tales about the EU, you've never driven the country away, you're moving away in standards from the EU, that's what the reports tell you, that's everyday life in the Republic of Serbia, that's what people you're meeting are saying. We are talking about the EU, sacrificing KIM for it, not finding the courage for you to admit it, because you know it costs politically in the election campaign. I'd like to say, in the abundance of distaste that comes from the government, I must commend you, Mrs Kalanovic, as one European witness today, you look like you're co-operating with Belarus. You used to spit on the SRS for co-operation with Russia and Belarus. I should remind you of the year 2000 you told us – you will be with the Russians and Belarusians. You look like today, because you've achieved, it seems to me that you've said, 80 million on an annual basis, you've improved your co-operation with Belarus. Why not advance with a European state? What are you going to sell them? Why don't you tell this people who are watching us how many billion you need to improve your standards to export to the EU, so you can sell them finished agricultural products to industry, not raw materials and re-materials? We have a low-productive exchange, and it's politically not worth talking about and exploiting. You point to the fact that one MP was with you. Let him brag about what he did there. Call on this MP to praise the liquidity of this country and the liquidity in which his company operates, so that you can see what it means to secure a salary for 50 employees and what it looks like from the position of a long-term businessman, and what it looks like from your ministerial cabinets, to see what the difference is. I'm really glad it's "Simpo", because it comes from southern Serbia, from a district I'm from, and I'm really glad it's like that. After all, Vranje, so Serbia, will benefit from all that, but you must, I said a hundred times to find a measure to which certain political topics you will exploit. Belarus cannot when you come to power to be disgusting and despised, but when it serves you to triumph politically and eventually win to serve you favorably. That's not how it works. One day it comes to an end to such a diabolical political story. Here you now convince us that the state has signed 44 of these agreements. It's funny to you, I know, it's funny, that's why the state is the kind of thing that you accept and do with ridicule. Forty-four agreements, come on, tell us, Madam Minister, how much did they advance our economy? How much did they contribute to the statistics saying that the foreign trade deficit with abroad fell this year? He did fall, but why don't you say why? Because imports fell, not because exports grew. This is our country's weakness, not economic progress or development, as you and your political bosses, your government colleagues, assure us that we've come out of a crisis that we haven't even entered for a while, in which you and your bosses have recognized the development chances, but when you need to exploit as a political theme all the misfortune of overpouring the economic crisis in Serbia, you don't choose the means or the intensity of how you're going to do it. Tell us the effects of the 44 agreements. You're talking about agreements with Russia and China. I don't know who's in this SRS anymore, you sitting there or us sitting here. Do you know what Minister Dragutinovic said today – fortunately we have agreements with Russia and China that are favourable. "Fortunately. "? They serve us for something favourable, but we're going to have their commitment to help us in the Security Council to think, both of them and 60 other countries, which we've made donkeys in the General Assembly because of the policy you're running, but when we have to say that what they're doing is great, we're happy, we have Russia and China, they give us favourable loans. Commend yourself to the exploitation of the favourable trade agreements you had with Russia. This agreement with Russia has been used by everyone in the world only you in Serbia have not, your DOS power since 2000. They opened abroad companies here in Serbia to use these privileges or benefits. You mocked it, Europeans, such a policy of the SRS and friendship and co-operation of economic relations with Russia. And then you start here on these agreements and our happiness that we have them to talk about and talk about. So after visiting our great president in Azerbaijan, we'll improve our relationship with them. Annual exchange in 2008, 12 million, now dropped to 5.2 last year. A trade exchange with Azerbaijan 5.2 million, 10 million for spies who say where Ratko Mladic is. It's a ratio of value and size. They're interested in us, my colleague Dimitrijevic said, about the ports. Do you know what science told you? You will lose strategic position on Corridor 7 because you have destroyed ports in the Republic of Serbia through robbery and criminal privatisation. That, Madam Minister, says in the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which this assembly will adopt in a few days. That's not what the SRS tells you, even though it means it and agrees with it, but that's what science says. You can't argue with that. We swear to cooperate with Azerbaijan. What do you want to teach them? Agrarian complex, construction and tourism. The agrarian complex is the only complex that creates a surplus. How much of the budget do you give them, and how much do you take for the NIP? Agrarian complex with livestock level 910. The level of livestock in Serbia is 910 years old. What are you gonna sell them? You don't have milk in Belgrade's malls. We don't have milk in Serbia? Well, you're making regulations supposedly to sort out the situation, and you're strangling small milk producers with those regulations. Isn't that right, Mr. Zivanovic? The milk producers said, not the SRS. It's all a mockery to you. Thirty per cent of the construction industry today and the operation of Serbia only works. They represent the biggest ballast for industrial statistics in Serbia, builders. Corridor 10 – stands, bypasses – stand, bridges – stand. Why are they standing there, explain it to me? It costs $800 million under favourable conditions. Do you know why, Mrs. Kalanovic? Because your government doesn't have projects to put that money into office, but that's why the government can take 250 million to finance the budget deficit. In the state of absurdity, it's all for ridicule, I agree. Many because of this crying today in Serbia, from those who cut their fingers and to those who are there every day before this Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, to those workers in Surdulica from whom they come, who have been on the roof of the factory for several days, strike for six months and the Privatisation Agency cannot solve the problem, either way, but to solve it. You are now telling us that these agreements are a good starting point for economic co-operation with these countries. Three hundred other things or a bunch of other things you had to solve first in this country, so this is the starting point. What's the investment environment in this country? Who will you be interested in coming to the state? With your budget, you have projected investments for this year a billion 400m euros. How much investment has been made this year? I'm guessing 5,000 billion. Then how come the deficit when everything's so great? What about the property? Your party is bathed in front of the Assembly to put the property law on the agenda, to get rid of the property of this country. There's no consent. What about the building site? What about the strategic documents? Mrs Kalanovic, the biggest regional differences occurred in Serbia in your time, during DOS governments, that's also what science writes and says. Which investor are you going to make, so if it needs to be from Azerbaijan, you're going to make him invest in the Shop, say? In a 200m-euro market, your government gave 80 euros, in goods and money as a whole. You gave people tango panties and brusthalters, which market inspection seized from street vendors. Check it out. That's funny. You've been handing out these people some hot bacon. You're talking about economic co-operation with abroad. Who takes you seriously? It takes two to cooperate. For cooperation, someone has to see you as a partner, you who made fun of everything you could make fun of, and I mean the government, I don't mean you personally. You want to work with someone. You throw numbers, a million, two, three, fivem euros, as much as the average tycoon spends on a yacht in Serbia. The tycoons that hug you on the embassies, and your political associates and those who selflessly spend all their efforts to look like you, from the Canadian embassy, so I don't know how far along the lawns. And you assure us that these are the basis for raising economic co-operation and relations of the RS economy, etc. What about comprehensive regulation reform? How far did you get with that? Not at all. What about tax certainty, a consistent tax system? What about legal certainty and legal protection? People make debts, close shops, and nothing. The courts can't charge for it, they can't legally protect people, economic operators. What about salaries, taxes, contributions, executive court decisions? Who in such a legally insecure country to come and invest? Just you and your Fiat. You give a hundred, or seven hundred, and they're a hundred million and the car industry is booming. In a country where we can make milk and meat, we'll make a car. I'm not questioning the need to work here, but there's something that makes a surplus, something that this country has to put first. You're going to work with the world with a zero-point slightly percentage of the science budget. Stop making fun of both the assembly and the people, all of you coming from this government. Do you know what Mrs Dragutinovic just said? For her, bankruptcy is the only way to save JAT, for her, bankruptcy is the best model, but she assures us that we should vote for a loan that should be 51 million and ask us MPs – to get you to take the exam, you need to learn something. Let's learn something, and the budget deficit of 120 billion dinars, projected, will be that big, we'll see, since your ambitions have grown closer in 2011, so the IMF tells you that the problem of projection next year is your boss, who's asking for 20 billion more for himself. We don't have to shoot you, your people are shooting you. They don't recognize the ones they need to rely on anymore. What can we tell you? Therefore, Mrs Kalanovic, to stay for a little while and for my distinguished colleague Krasic, who often has a habit of telling you – the state is a serious thing, much more than a mockery and a telephone. Therefore, we cannot support this, and at least the arguments that you have made before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-09-0.u46299	Madam Minister, I'm sorry, but we'll continue our work tomorrow, so I'll give you my word tomorrow at 10:00. So, we're going back to work tomorrow. Thank you for your participation in the debate.
