ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40533	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Milos Aligrudic. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40534	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last week, the National Bank of Serbia decided to increase the limit for consumer loans – when it comes to dinar consumer loans, citizens will be able to borrow, instead of 30% of pay, to 40% of salary, and when it comes to housing loans, instead of 50%, the limit is increased to 60% of the salary. The National Bank's decision states that this applies to all those loans that do not have a currency clause, and therefore it is clear that it is a simple colourful lie, and my question will later arise from a few explanations that I will give. Namely, if we look at only housing loans, can either one of you present, or someone from the National Bank or someone from the Serbian Government explain to me what is a housing loan that does not have a currency clause in Serbia right now? This means that this increase in the limit of the National Bank of Serbia does not apply to housing loans at all, because it is impossible. When it comes to other consumer dinar loans, it's something to think about. Since the idea of the National Bank of Serbia was (this is seen from a statement) that this increase in the wage debt is actually done primarily to stimulate domestic production, then there is a very simple question – what domestic production? What are the other measures that the Serbian government is preparing to stimulate domestic production, as we have not seen so far, how would the stimulation of consumption affect the increase of production in Serbia? If you look at your foreign trade balance in the country, you will see that the need for consumers in Serbia is primarily the need for that goods placed on the Serbian market, which is mostly foreign goods, it is the goods of the import lobby. Since the tycoons in Serbia, based on their pressure, have managed to produce favourable conditions for imports, then, of course, these huge goods imported must be sold. In order for these goods to be sold, it is necessary to increase the debt limit from 30% to 40%, in order to stimulate citizens to buy these goods. What does this have to do with domestic production stimulation? Some rumors started before we saw what the National Bank of Serbia had announced, that this was practically about stimulating domestic goods purchases. That's not gonna happen. That's just not the case. This country has managed, with terrible loans and a terrible state-level credit policy, to lend citizens enormously and those debts to citizens through taxes and taxes should not be paid back in years, but in decades to come, which will ruin the people. The current debt based on consumer loans is on average about 650 euros per capita. What's this NBS... I doubt that the National Bank of Serbia acted on its own, but rather it was a draft with the Serbian government and an agreement on a measure of economic policy that is unclear to anyone, as no one is clear of the overall package of these measures. So it's just amazing to me that such a colorful lie is pushed under the citizens' nose. What we heard, and what is likely to prove justified in the next period, is that the first banks that approve loans will not listen to the NBS proposal, because anyone reasonable who has private capital and owns a bank is not crazy about allowing themselves such luxury that citizens who do not have money (and as the economic situation in Serbia stands, under this government will not have it in a rather long period of time ahead) that a loan that will burden 40% of the population's salary, which otherwise has no bread to eat? (President: Time. ( b) What is this measure for? In what context is this measure designed? That's my question, and I want to see what the total of these measures is, because we haven't seen it in almost two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40535	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a man can't be sure whether it's a good thing to get an answer to a question or not to get an answer at all. Because when some questions are answered seriously, what does this congregation serve and what does the institution like to ask questions, what are we entitled to on Tuesdays and Thursdays? Among other things, I asked how the file could have been damaged in the High Court in Belgrade in the case of C Market, Slobodan Radulovic and others. See what fits V.D. High Court President in Belgrade, Judge Dragoljub Albianic, says: "Due to heavy rains during October 2009, as well as to the adaptation of the roof part of the court building on Stustnička 29 Street, there has been a water breach in one of the rooms where the case files of the then district court's special department in Belgrade were kept." Imagine, my people, v.d. The president of the court says that because of the heavy rain and the adaptation of the roof on the building, which has seven-eight floors of water, it has come to the basement and damaged the files. This is amazing, this is such a joke with the National Assembly that it's amazing! I ask that this judge's business ability be determined. What are his judgments if he gives such answers to questions? Imagine, an eight-story building, an adaptation, how much water could have been, and only damage to this room and these files, and everything else to be without a problem? Speaking of which, I'm asking both you and Mrs. Kolundji -- did she get an answer to three questions she asked about Luka? I ask the question of the ruling coalition – how is it possible that you do not get an answer when it comes to Luke? Because you see what Ivana Vesenovic, President of Luke Belgrade, said: "People without professional qualifications from the Anti-Corruption Council warned and publicly insulted state officials, prosecutors and courts that they were corrupt. “ I suppose you too, Mrs. Kolundjia, are listed in this category. What does this country look like? Be careful, the head of the ruling parliamentary group has three questions, and there is no answer. What's going on? Those from Luke say the information that is being placed is incorrect, particularly related to the question whether it was true that it was 42,300,000 euros in Luke's account in December 2005. They say it's not true. Here, I own a document signed by Chancellor Ravnihar Seka, constituist-Bilista Petrovic Gordan, member of Sretic Slobodan and president of Klokočar Davor. Someone's lying here. Who is lying, should be determined, but I ask the question, Mrs. Dejanovic, when will we really realize the possibility of getting answers to the questions we asked and why are we not getting these answers? What's he hiding? There's a crime going on. What about the questions I asked about the news company? What about the answer to the SKJ property? What does this congregation look like? What about your authority as president of the assembly? Six members of the Defence and Security Committee asked the Committee's deputy president to schedule a session on April 13th; behold, now a month, he has not scheduled it. What are you afraid of? I know what you are afraid of. How long do you think you've been hiding the crime and robbery that's been going on in this country for the last ten years, and you're not doing anything? What about the group of friendships with Iran? Why isn't this group forming? How long can Dragoljub Micunovic behave like that? You don't care. That's more inadmissible. Go do your job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (President: Time. I hope you're on your own, not taking orders...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40537	You're looking forward to it. Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, just to have your MP group provide the authority to have you authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40538	We received a letter from physicists from the Vinc Nuclear Institute, who also forwarded their letter to Minister Djelic and various institutions: the College of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, the National Council, the Community of the Institute of Serbia, the parent board of physics and the Scientific Council of the Vinch Institute. Since it is very serious irregularities that reveal corruption relations at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development and relate above all to Minister Bozidar Djelic himself, Assistant Minister Tibor Sabo, representatives of the Union of the Nuclear Institute of Vinch have asked us to update the truth about this as much as possible in the National Assembly and that the questions we ask and the letter addressed to Minister Bozidar Djelic are kind of updated here. This is what basic remarks and proposals are compared to the draft act on the selection, evaluation and financing of the proposed research programmes in the next period. "As in drawing up the draft strategy of the scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2015, scientists who are in important posts in the Ministry were involved in the drafting of this document while also engaged in projects funded by the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Scientifically larger in the field of physics, the Anti-Corruption Agency will launch an initiative to review the conflict of interest of all State secretaries and other ministry officials who set out criteria for the score of individuals and projects and the allocation of equipment, while at the same time participating in the same projects and competitions for equipment. Their categories are determined by the criteria they set themselves and even make themselves some special new institutes and centres of excellence. Scientifically larger in the area of physics suggests that, in order to avoid conflicts of interest, none of the science and technological development officials should even formally, with zero research months, engage on any project of the ministry. Secondly, the proposed review system is completely inappropriate to the reality of Serbian science and the declared drive for Serbia to join the European scientific space. As the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2015 noted, there is no critical mass in Serbia for most areas of research. We believe that in a small environment, in which there are no relevant experts in many areas of modern science, or only two or three groups deal with the same subject, in which everyone knows and knows exactly who they are, the domestic review is a danger to the quality and objective assessment of the proposed projects and the cause of the conflict of interest. Therefore, the proposal is for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development to engage only two sides of the project reviewer, whose average rating would be the final assessment of each project. For example, in the previous project cycle, the Ministry of Science and Technological Development hired only a few reviewers for the field of physics, which questioned the quality of the review of very diverse project proposals. We believe that the Ministry could collect several dozen foreign experts from its analysts, researchers or via internet databases for each area. Reviewers could be determined by draw and each of them could be familiar with the current way of funding researchers' scientific work in Serbia, which means – employees in institutes are equal salaries, regardless of scientific calling, and employees in colleges are equal to the additional source of income. In previous years, equipment from the NIP has been allocated on an extremely irregular basis. From the very text of the draft, it is unclear what existing equipment is being used, group equipment, institutions or equipment of the Ministry to be used on the project, which should be available to all researchers wherever it is located. We think this item should carry much less weight. We also believe that all researchers involved in irregular activities during the previous distribution of equipment must not be members of any future commission of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development for the supply of equipment. “ New Serbia expects Bozidar Djelic's response to all these remarks and suggestions it receives from the Scientific Council in the field of physics of the Vinch Institute of Nuclear Sciences.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40539	Thank you. Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40540	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on April 15th I asked Minister Oliver Dulic, to whom I received the answer. What makes me LDP MP very pleased is that in the response I received from Minister Dulic, what I asked as a question, that is, I cited as the reason for the failure to issue local permits, behind which is the construction industry in Belgrade. Since I asked the question how is it possible to operate a law that was passed last August, which, behold, nine months after that without all the legal acts in the procedure, in the very answer of the Ministry, or the minister tells me that... Madam President, if you'll excuse me, if you'll excuse me, it's really hard for me to speak... (President: Gentlemen of the Parliament, please allow Mr. Marash to be heard. ) So, in the response I received from the Ministry, it is confirmed that not all sublegal acts have been passed and that in transitional and final provisions it is foreseen that where no sublegal acts have been passed, the old law will be applied. That speaks enough of the urgency, competence and willingness of one ministry to deal with such a subject. It would be best for Mr. Minister to look up to his party colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, who when he adopts the law here prepares and sublegal acts on the basis of which the law could function. I further stated in my question that the catastra issue is a very big problem, which is controlled by the ministry run by Mr. Dulic. I received an answer that the government, or the Ministry, would review the law itself and that, having noticed that there was a problem with the cataster, at the end of 2010, it would go, after inspection supervision, into a possible change of law. That's why I'm asking Prime Minister Cvetkovic today. I think it is not enough that Minister Dulic, in this way, apologizes that the law does not function in the best possible way and because he did not bring in all sublaws in nine months, in particular 13 sublegal acts. We want to hear, as LDP, what Prime Minister Cvetkovic will do about it. Will the law on spatial planning and construction be changed urgently? I must say that the Belgrade Building Directorate has asked for a loan from the city, namely four billion dinars, or forty million euros, because there is no investment in Belgrade, which there is no construction and that the Belgrade Building Directorate has no means to operate. The funds they have they invest for some other things that are necessary for the city to function. The Liberal-Democratic Party is against being asked and being assisted in this way, we are already insisting, as we insisted in the principle debate when this law was passed in October of last year, to change the law, that the law be adjusted so that it can function and that all sublaws be passed. This law we're talking about is inadmissible. The answer Mr. Dulic sent to me as an MP (I suppose the other MPs received it) shows that he acknowledges that the law, as it is, is inapplicable, so that the law that existed before that must be applied. We want the construction industry to live, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that those in charge in the city of Belgrade and throughout Serbia are doing their job in the best possible way and in accordance with the law. But we also don't want citizens to suffer because of it, and neither do those construction industry workers that I mentioned, over 50,000 who have lost their jobs. The question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic is: when will he approach the amendments to the Construction and Spatial Planning Act, which we discussed here in August of last year, since he is inapplicable, as he is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40541	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Zlata Djeric. According to Article 88(1), I called on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to attend: Snezana Lakicevic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Radmila Bukumirović-Katic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy Rajka Vukomanovic and Snezana Bogdanovic, Councilor of Labour and Social Policy. We move on to a joint principle search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Abuse and Proposal for a Law on Volontisation by the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled search on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, and before opening a common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Nikola Krpic's PUPS Parliament Group; MP Elvira Kovac's Parliamentary Group of Minorities; MP Milisav Petronijević MP group SPS-JS; MP Milica Vojic-Marković MP group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic's MP group G17 plus; MP Mirko Cikiriz Group of ZES and MP Nemanja Sarović MP of the SRS. Does Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me first say a few words about the bill on preventing abuse at work. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 60, among other things, found that everyone has the right to respect their own person on the job, and the adoption of legislative legislation as well as to ensure the protection of employees from labour abuse is a matter of priority, especially if it is given that the issue of the ban on labour abuse is recommended by the European Parliament, which adopted the Resolution on Labour Abuse, Resolution 2001/2339. Although the Labour Act contains provisions on the prohibition of direct and indirect discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment of employees and persons seeking employment, on the basis of one of his personal characteristics, status or determinations, as well as provisions on the possibility of a discriminatory person being able to initiate proceedings before a competent court for damages, in accordance with the law governing the litigation procedure, these provisions provide for a kind of protection of an employee and a person seeking employment, if that person under any personal property is discriminated against, but is not regulated, nor sanctioned abuse of an employee in the manner in which this question is governed by this law. The draft law on the prevention of labour abuse sets out the concept and prohibition of labour abuse, the procedure for the protection of employees from abuse by the employer in front of the court, as well as the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee and employer. The abuse of work represents malicious, hostile, and unethical behavior toward the employee. It can be vertical, most often, from a manager to an employee, in 95% of cases, but also horizontally, among employees, or colleagues at work. According to the Serbian Victemological Society, in 2007, of the 216 reported victims of abuse, 119 people consider it a victim of labour abuse, 55% of the total number of reported victims of abuse. In 2008, according to this society, of the 226 reported victims of abuse, 115 people were reported to be a victim of labour abuse, which is 51% of the total number of people reported. These data show that every other victim of abuse has been abused at work and in relation to work. According to the "Stop Moving" association, 1271 have been reported in the course of 2008, including 552 men and 729 women. According to a survey conducted in EU countries related to labour abuse, the following data have been reported: around 8% of workers in Europe, which is twelve million people, claims to have been the subject of workplace abuse, 4% say it was the subject of physical violence and 2% of sexual harassment. The result of this study in EU member states that women are more likely to be bullied than men, 9% compared to 7%, that workers working under a contract on occasional jobs are more likely to be the subject of harassment than those with permanent employment. The study also shows that the frequency of labour abuse is the highest in the public administration – 13%, in the trade sector, the sale of services – 12% and banking 10%. The law is based, above all, on the prevention of behaviour defined as abuse of work through various aspects of informing employees, training, and above all through the obligation of the employer to provide the employees with a healthy working environment. The law also provides for protection against abuse by the employer through the intermediation process, the participation of a third neutral person with the aim of intermediating between parties to resolve disputed issues, which, if not successful, opens the possibility of protection in the process of determining the responsibility of the employer for breach of labour discipline, as well as the competent court in the litigation procedure, which has the character of the work dispute. The court procedure is urgent in those cases. The supervision of the application of the law is carried out by administrative inspection for employees of state authorities, autonomous province bodies, local self-government, as well as the inspection of work for employees of enterprises, institutions and other employers. The law provides for criminal liability for the employer and the responsible person of the employer for non-compliance with the provisions of the law. The paper in the law is the introduction of a mediation process, i.e. intermediation. This informal procedure can resolve issues at large without higher costs for the employer, and that is because the mediator can be selected from the ranks of employees of the employer or from a list which is educated by a collective contract or act of the Social-Economic Council, agreed by the parties to the dispute and the employer. The adoption of this law will be faster and easier to resolve cases of labour abuse and will reduce the number of litigation disputes over labour abuse, as the law provides for the possibility of resolving issues of the employer himself through a process of mediation and settlement, which does not last longer than eight working days, i.e. a disciplinary procedure. Only if the employer's proceedings fail can the employee address the court and in this case the court case is, as we said, urgent. This law has been prepared by a working group, consisting of representatives of social partners, prominent experts in the field of labour law, or professors of law. During the preparation of the law, co-operation was reached with representatives of the association, as you heard, such as the Serbian Victemological Society and the Stop Moving association, with their experience and suggestions being valuable to the draft law. Many of the suggestions we received from the NGO representatives during the public debate, which lasted several months, were included in the final version of the bill. (President: I thank you, Mr. Minister. Oh, you want me to... Here you go. ) As regards the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering, our legal system does not know volunteering as a voluntary provision of services for the general good or good of another person without compensation, although other laws, the Labour Act, the Law on Health Protection, the Law on Social Security and the provision of social security of citizens, spoke of volunteering, which means, true, professional training and training to carry out traineeship and passing a professional examination, i.e. to carry out specialization in certain professions. The importance of the volunteering law that is before you today is particularly reflected in the introduction of a form of volunteering into the legal system such as providing services for the general good or the good of another person, voluntarily, without compensation, thereby making it a clear distinction from the working engagement of a person on the basis of a working contract and work outside of a working relationship. The adoption of the Voluntary Law will ensure legal protection of volunteers, as well as the protection of users of their services against any damage that could result from this activity. Volunteering prescribed by this law is based on the principles established by ratified international conventions in this area, such as the UN General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In countries with developed volunteering tradition, a significant economic contribution has been observed that volunteers give their activities to local, regional and national economies. In our country, although there are well-organized volunteering in certain areas, it has not yet been developed to a sufficient extent. According to the information we have, as an example of good practice in the field of volunteering, we can list the participation of 10,000 volunteers who were involved in the organisation of the University of Belgrade, 600 volunteer students who were organized and involved in the work of the National Office of the President of the Republic. The importance of volunteering is multiple, both for volunteers themselves and for society in general. Volunteering involves learning, exchanging experiences and helping others, and volunteering new experiences and developing professional skills of volunteers, developing solidarity and actively involving citizens in social processes, which contributes to the development of a more human and equal society. The organiser of volunteering in the bill may be a legal person whose primary objective is not to obtain profits (usually NGOs), then a state body, authorities of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The law prescribes specific conditions for organising volunteering by companies or public enterprises, since it is necessary to prevent the abuse of free volunteer work from increasing the competitiveness of operators. Therefore, these legal entities may organise volunteering on condition that activities for the general good, i.e. the good of the other person, are not obtained by the activities outside their activity, that the provision of volunteer services and activities does not result in profits, and that volunteering does not replace the work of employees and other persons employed. The organisation of the volunteering is carried out with the acquisition of the ministry's prior consent to work on a volunteering programme. The draft law lays down the following questions: the principle of volunteering, volunteering conditions, conditions for companies and public enterprises to organise volunteering, volunteering contracts, the rights and obligations of volunteers and the obligation of volunteers, the keeping of records and the submission of volunteering reports and the supervision of the application of the law. In our terms, we believe that volunteer work should be encouraged and promoted, especially in the areas of social and health care, such as providing services to old, sick and needy persons, in the areas of education, environmental conservation, sports activities of children and youth. The draft law on volunteering has been prepared by a working group representing representatives of social partners, labour law experts, NGOs, as well as other professional associations. We tried to install as many complaints as possible into the text of this law. Unfortunately, there are provisions of the law on which there was no agreement, but we are prepared to adopt all proposals and amendments that will improve the text of the bill during this debate and in particular the discussions on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40543	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Mr Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40544	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, members of the Government, we are having a united debate on these two very important laws. Allow me, in my capacity as representative of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, to draw attention to the exceptional importance of this first law, the law prohibiting abuse at work. The bill has only 38 members, but its substance and essence is very complex. This law, more than any other, in addition to a well-established procedure, enters the field of psychology, ethics, philosophy and, unfortunately, neuropsychiatry. In Milan, there is a large clinic specialising in treating victims of labour abuse, or mobbing. All citizens who work or who work essentially know what we're going to talk about today. The only question is whether it will be recognized as one who has suffered abuse or will be recognized as a webber, or one who has exercised abuse against others. In science and in the studies of this phenomenon, animal behavior, where the phenomenon of animals being joined against one of their members, was observed, was expelled or, unfortunately, died. The proverb says: “The beast the beast, the bird the bird, but the man eats. ” Why this is both human and world, and whether man is truly the most perfect creation of God, it is a really complex question. Is a man born evil or just good? In any case, scientists say the child is not a taboo of race after all. To ignore genetically, the formation of man, his personality and character has a crucial impact on childhood, parental love, education, and so much as man had the opportunity to intellectually develop and socialize. I fear that the state of Serbia is still an unbuilt civil society and that there is still a need for a lot of water to flow through the Danube and Sava until we begin to respect all true civic values in Serbia. Envy and jealousy. Researchers say the phenomenon of labour abuse is the most represented in the state administration, and it is being conducted, paradoxically, on top of the best people, who are above average, because their colleagues view them as a danger and competition. People with less knowledge and less ethics, often with unrecognizable personality disorders, abuse and abuse everything that bothers them in the way of courtship, lies and manipulation. How does this happen and where is the system error? It is certainly a mistake for one who was obliged to recognize such a phenomenon and point to it or to prevent and suppress it. The mistake is still, unfortunately, systemic in Serbia. I'm talking about this and I'm potentialing this story because it leads us to incompetent people who run businesses and institutions in the state of Serbia. Incompetent people make their sub-choice of incompetent people, and then you end up getting failed businesses and non-productive state administration. Societys who do not care about knowledge and who are satisfied with the fact that they have a brighter future around them. Serbia must have and will have a better future than the present, and is on that path. We are talking about harmful phenomena and bad things, and we need to talk openly and publicly, so that these harmful things and phenomena don't exist. So if we are determined to oppose mobbing, we must first pass a good law, a law that recognises such a phenomenon as mass and which determines the measures to prohibit labour abuse and prevent it. The draft law stipulates that the employer is obliged to organise work in a way that is to the greatest extent possible to prevent labour abuse. He is obliged to inform an employee by written notice of the prohibition of abuse, to carry out training of employees to recognise forms of abuse, to awaken the awareness of employees of the harmfulness of abuse, he is required to initiate a protection procedure if the abuse occurs, to carry out a procedure of intervention and calming, that, if it fails, he initiates a disciplinary procedure against the one who conducts the abuse. The bill before you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to internal protection, provided for judicial protection in the litigation procedure, which is a work dispute. The complaint may, under this proposal of the law, require a ban on abuse and compensation for material and immaterial damages. So, this law obliges the employer to organise the process of work and I think that the organisation of the work process is crucial in preventing abuse at work, because good work organisation and proper evaluation of both knowledge and human potential, and consequently by deploying employees to appropriate jobs, abuse will be marginalised or will be reduced to controversial phenomena. What does a good work organization mean? It involves the awareness of all employees in the business hierarchical series, from top to bottom, to have a common goal, which is to preserve the sustainability of each business system. In the company it is essential to produce, receive salaries, create quality product and profit; in the service system the same goal is to deliver fast and quality services for all citizens; in the administration to create good laws, to work productively, with the ultimate goal of making life easier for citizens. This is our common goal, and this is the organisation of work that is required to make a good employer, and that is also prescribed by this law. The state isn't a toy. The state is a serious and expensive thing. All things, both large and small, must be kept under control, and that control provides, above all, good laws. So I believe this is a good law, which will establish standards and rules of conduct, and all those who do not enforce it must be punished. These are civilization standards. That's why this law is a civil law. About mobbing, we can talk about work abuse for a long time. Some countries have special laws on banning labour abuse, some apply general laws that are criminal and civil. Everywhere in the world there are these phenomena, even in developed capitalism countries, there are more common occurrences of mobbing by employers, by being employed in these countries because of strong unions than in Serbia. Researchers say weber is the new boss who has no previous experience in dealing with workers. I would say that the new boss in Serbia can be a metaphor for an undeveloped man, without ethics and by the rule that is a man without experience, because every experienced man has a great respect for the profession and the rules of the profession. When we have clear goals in the common interest, when everyone gets their place in the business and social system, mobbing and abuse at work will be rare. Until then, we'll have to follow this law. As for the second law, the draft law on volunteering, I'll just say a few things. Some countries have special laws on volunteering. Some not only don't have it, but they apply labour legislation. The essence of volunteer work is almost always the same – well-being, non-profit, work without pay, with basic costs. Volunteer work in certain countries is listed as a special experience acquired in an area. Confirmation of the duration and expertise of volunteers is issued, which I think is good because it is useful for finding new employment. At the very end, we need a legal framework to ensure legal protection of all volunteers, as well as users of their services from possible damages. That volunteers can also make a significant economic contribution to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's MPs have had the opportunity to see during their study visits. For example, in Portugal, the food bank, the largest citizen initiative since World War II ended, alongside several permanent employees, has been done exclusively by volunteers. The amount of work is also mentioned in the figures: Fifteen food banks in Portugal daily deliver thirty tons of food, and in 2008 alone they delivered nearly ten thousand tons of food. Finally, I must point out that on 17 March 2008, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina sent the National Assembly a draft Voluntary Law, which unfortunately was not put on the agenda, but fortunately this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on volunteering mainly processed the same institutes as the proposal of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you for your attention. I believe in voting day we will support these two draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40545	Thank you. Allow me to inform you that the New Serbia Parliamentary Group at points 1 and 2 at this fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly will represent MP Aleksandra Jankovic, and that at these points, the LDP parliamentary group will represent MP Zoran Ostojic. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40546	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Ljajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the point of view of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, these two laws that are now in front of us are extremely important, I would say necessary, not only for our legal system, but for the regulation of social relations in such an important area as the area of work. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia declares the principles of protection of the dignity of the working personality, safe working conditions do not mean much unless they are governed by the law, and this is exactly the law on banning abuse of work, i.e. on banning mobbing, as popularly said. I will remind you, gentlemen, that in our legal system, certain norms and certain laws that treat this matter, first of all the Labour Act and a whole series of other laws, already exist. These standards are, I say, dispersive, dissociative and not effective enough in terms of prevention, and prevention is the key thing when we talk about mobbing, or the proposal of this law. So, not only sanctioning labour abuse, either vertically or horizontally, but creating conditions for non-abuse. You, Mr. Minister, have presented in your opening statement one to say the dreary statistics of the Serbian Victemological Society and other organisations aimed at preventing abuse at work. The statistics show that the largest number of abuses is in this area, in the field of work. Labour abuse or mobing is not one endemic category typical of Serbia alone. It exists, as Meho Omerovic said, and in the countries of more developed democracies and orderly economic, legal and labour-legal systems, such as Western European countries. But the difference is that the intensity of these phenomena in such societies is much less than with us. So, it is our duty, gentlemen, to arrange this system in one quality way, as proposed by this law, for now, in principle. Through the debate on amendments, we will increase the percentages that the amendments improve the possible text of this law. I'm just going to say that the quality of this law is that it enables and provides a legal framework to prevent abuse at work. I would especially point out this one legal mechanism, not to go into a detailed analysis of all the provisions, which is the mediation between the persons he considers abused and the abuser. So, for the mediator, consensus, an agreement chooses a person who enjoys the trust of both sides. There are deadlines in which a person who thinks he was abused at work can initiate the procedure. Efficient protection, that is, the effectiveness of these measures, is reflected in strictly prescribed norms relating to disciplinary measures that are brought towards the person who abuses or the person who abused this right, so to speak, and certainly there are such cases, I believe, to a much less extent. Judicial protection is also secured. Let me just close my observation. From the point of view of the Constitution and relevant international documents, this law is, therefore, essential to us. It will also significantly reduce the mobing, i.e. abuse at work in all phenomenal forms in which it exists in our labour law and in our society at all. The second law, the law on volunteering, is also an important law. Volunteering within the meaning of this law is not volunteering as an institute that exists in the Labour Act and which involves professional training, a certain working engagement to acquire certain knowledge and pass a judicial examination. This is one, I would say, a social and social category, which will enable all those persons, legal and physical, who want to make their engagement, their work, their efforts to make such a benefit for either their community, the local community, or the wider community... So it's volunteering without compensation. The law defines and norms the conditions under which you can volunteer, the rights of volunteers, the rights of the organisation in which you volunteer. What is important to point out is that volunteering as a single form of service is done for general gain and the general good is not done in organisations whose existence is intended to gain profits. On the other hand, in companies too, it is possible to volunteer, therefore, in companies, but in those areas and activities for which the company is not registered, in order to avoid abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take constructive part in the discussion of these two very important laws and to declare them. This is not a political issue, this is a much broader question, a question of general social importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40547	Thank you. Did MP Aleksandar Pejcic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, raise an opinion, want a word? He's not here. Did the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Petar Jojic, who delivered an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Verica Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, anyone who is seriously involved in this business has seen that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has actually been playing with the National Assembly for several months now. What we get in the agenda proposals and what's being discussed and decided here is often less important laws or laws that aren't really supposed to exist in our legal system at all. The agenda for this session is drawn up by that people: “The village is burning, and the grandmother is combing. ” Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regularly informs the public, as if he were the strongest opposition to the government, about how many hundreds of thousands are hungry in Serbia, how many hundreds of thousands are on the verge of existence, how many are hundreds of thousands of unemployed. And then, instead of coming out with a solution, Mr. Minister, how to solve these problems, you're here to let us discuss the law on volunteering. Indeed, given the fact that there are so many unemployed in Serbia, how many have been fired and how many have been fired daily, it seems that in Serbia, under such authority, there will be no more employees. Everyone seems to have to work for a crust of bread, but in the most literal sense of the word. This law on preventing labour abuse did not have to be found on the agenda, not because there is no abuse at work, on the contrary, and as there is, but because this matter is already regulated in the Criminal Code. When we discussed the one and only member almost a year ago, when the Labour Act changed, and when we gave you all the failures in the Labour Law, how many employees were actually unprotected, you, Mr. Minister, said that you almost absolutely agree with everything we've told you, but that you are seriously considering proposing to the National Assembly a whole new text of the labour law, which, of course, is necessary. Instead of going out with such a text of the law in which you would correct all errors of the existing law and in which it could certainly be incorporated and what is provided for in the law on volunteering and in the law on preventing abuse at work, you are here giving these bill proposals, which, unfortunately, will mean nothing in practice. Not now, unfortunately, they don't, nor can they get anyone's help. If someone comes to someone from your ministry, they regularly get the answer that the ministry isn't competent. You here now, for possible abuse of work, are predicting some middleman who, like, will settle sides in conflict, conditionally speaking. That's total nonsense. If you truly want to prevent abuse at work, then the only way to regulate it is to sanction the Criminal Code, to sanction the person who abuses the employee, and you will get nothing from that formal middleman. Such a failed attempt was already in the judiciary; it turned out that there was nothing to do. Who will protect, say, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party from abuse at work, because we are here at work, we are at work, because we here are in the harshest way in which our fundamental rights are violated? We're not allowed to say what we want to say, break up every minute, take our word, punish ourselves. We should just say what the chairman is thinking right now. So the most cruel abuse at work is happening right here in this House. I don't see that this law you gave us... (President - Gordana Komic: Five minutes. I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40549	Does MP Petar Jojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the numerous draft laws that the Government boasts, that it brings hundreds, it will almost say thousands of laws, one important distinction should be made between what the law is and what another sublaw is; the adoption of laws by order or the adoption of system laws that need to solve certain problems, certain behaviours and to ensure the rights and obligations of certain institutions. When it comes to volunteering law, it's certain that we don't have a review, we have no idea how it's regulated in parallel law, in Anglo-Saxon and in continental law. What I have to pay particular attention to is that the legislator, mostly the Government, does not use parallel law. It would be of great benefit to the MPs if they had a comparative and legal analysis of how it was regulated in other countries, because it is not enough to mention which state has this law and which state does not have that law. If there is one of the European Member States of the EU, let's see how it is regulated, what sanctions the abuser suffers and how the abused has the right to exercise his rights. As far as abuse is concerned, protection from the court is also foreseen. That protection is not well-organized, the legal norm is not clear. Secondly, this legal norm allows for a delay in proceedings. Why does the law not provide for a paragraph or norm to be initiated by an authorised person at a specified time, ending within a specified time limit? The Law on litigation is applied, so the abused has the right to press charges in a litigation procedure, however, this provision concerning these deadlines had to be clearer, more precise and more effective, and would only be effective if the law clearly provided for the provision that the proceedings in the litigation proceedings of the person concerned should be carried out within a certain period. If that's not there, we'll find ourselves in a situation like so far in court practice, that the case is being filed for 33 years. As she was led for 33 years by her parents for compensation for damages when their son died in the army, from a village above Uzic called Nikojevici. The case lasted 33 years! Is there at all any interest in bringing a lawsuit, bringing a lawsuit to the court of law, and not having a time limit within which the court is to make a decision, within which the decision is to be taken by law and the time limit within which it is to be executed? So there's a lot of inadequacy. When it comes to volunteering, I think there's free volunteering in practice with us. Patients and severe patients in healthcare institutions volunteer. For days and days, they go for a review, days and days to get a prescription to buy medicine, days and days to allow them to determine results in laboratories, take blood. One day he goes to get a number, another day he goes to a nurse or a doctor when he can get a checkup... (President: five minutes. I'll finish. Therefore, we've abolished the death penalty, but the death penalty...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40551	Thank you. Do any of the other MPs who have singled out an opinion want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40552	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, the Government's representatives, today I'm going to talk about the draft law on preventing labour abuse. When we talk about this bill, we have to say that there are many abuses at work, and above all we think about sexually, physically, mentally, and politically. I will focus on political abuse of employers. As we have indications from the field by the unions, the most criticism comes from the private sector. Normally, such anomalies occur both in the state sector and in public enterprises. Perhaps in this law and the law on discrimination, we would rescind certain conconsequences of this kind of anomaly. Trade unions usually refer to all those who have been abused by the judicial authorities, but it is important that local self-government should also deal with this problem. In fact, many local self-governments do not have the institution of protection of citizens, i.e. ombudsman. They deliberately avoid setting up a public defender because he would not only protect citizens and workers but also control their work. I started talking about political abuse and political mobing. It began to erupt after the law on the rationalisation of jobs both at the local and in the republican institutions. I'll try on a classic case to explain how it happened in my community, and I come from Leskovac municipality. Given that Leskovac is the municipality that has the largest number of employees in local self-government, the basic criteria for losing a job was political membership. Observing is an example that happened at the House of Culture in Vuchje. The director of Nebojsa Krstic, after having received the order to build a social map of workers, has placed twelve of them in that home of culture, and an item, believe me – party membership. We have undefined SRS, SPS, SNS, DSS. What do you think the workers lost their jobs? Those workers who are not part of the ruling coalition. The DSS - G 17 - SPS - New Serbia is ruling in Leskovac. So all those who are not members of this ruling coalition have lost their jobs. We have an example, say, inhumane procedure of a director who fired a man who is eleven years old, single, lives with his mother in a family home, and his mother is retired with the lowest pension of disability insurance. The man lost his job after 11 years of work because he's a member of the SRS. So this kind of thing happens permanently in Leskovac, and I said it's a municipality that has the largest number of employees in the municipal administration. We are passing a law on abuse and I hope that this law will be applied, that part of the ruling coalition and how it applies this law and that it will not remain a dead letter on paper. For example, yesterday we had a choice in "Piaca" (it was a public company in Leskovac), where the director had to invite all the representatives of the independent union to cancel the union president, because he was a permanent critic of the mayor and his work. There were such threats that people had to vote in public. Mr. Minister, I've tried through this plastic example to explain to you what the situation in Leskovac municipality is and how the ruling coalition, the local self-government as an employer, is doing political mobbing. I hope it's this law and how to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40553	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40554	The Honorable Chairman, members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Ljajic, I express my satisfaction, as a PUPS MP, because the draft law on preventing labour abuse will be discussed today, 11 May 2010, in a comprehensive manner in today's session of the Serbian Parliament. Consideration of the Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse, with the active participation of all, from legislators, through the working bodies of the National Assembly, to every citizen and citizen concerned by the provision of the bill, also allows for the improvement of the text itself through the amendment. The legal framework or the basis for the adoption of such a law is contained in the provisions of Article 97(8). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia guarantees constitutional rights to all its citizens and that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, a system in the field of working relations, protection at work and other economic and social relations of general interest for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Minister, today we have before us a draft law on the prevention of labour abuse, which was attended by representatives of representative employers' associations and representative trade unions in the Republic of Serbia, professionals in the field of labour law, as well as representatives of the association dealing with labour abuse issues. It was precisely their data and experience that were the basis for the draft law that is before us, since it is evident that in our society there is this kind of violation of the right, or behavior that represents abuse at work. It is alarming that this phenomenon is present in all the structures of employees and at all levels of work. As the regulation of this issue is also recommended by the European Parliament, which adopted the Resolution on abuse in the workplace, we PUPS members advocate that this social issue be regulated, that is, to do everything possible to prevent these occurrences, and we believe that the adoption of such a law is very important. Demeaning, insulting, provoking, harassing, shouting, physical harassment, sexual harassment, taking away jobs and other methods that primitively presumed employees will be banned and we hope that punishment under the law that you are proposing today. I think this law will be active and will activate all the positive rules of criminal policy. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found, among other things, that everyone has the right to respect the dignity of his person at work, safe and healthy working conditions and the necessary protection at work. The labour law contains provisions on the prohibition of direct and indirect discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment of employees and persons seeking employment, on the basis of some personal property, status and definition, as well as provisions on the possibility of a discriminatory person being able to initiate proceedings before the competent court for damages, in accordance with the law governing the litigation procedure. These provisions provide for a form of protection for employees and persons seeking employment, if any, a person subject to discrimination. However, more and more frequent behaviors that represent work abuse and work as a new form of violation of the right to respect the dignity of the person on the job are also evident. The abuse of work is malicious, hostile, and unethical behavior towards the employee. This type of behaviour is present in all employee structures and at all levels of work, including the management of the chamber. The abuse of work and work has different kinds of expressions, such as assault on the quality of professional work, assault on personal reputation, attack on the possibilities of adequate communication and maintaining social relations, and often has the consequences of endangering the health of persons exposed to abuse in the working environment. According to the Serbian Victemological Society, there were many such examples during 2007, 2008 and 2009. This situation points to the need for the issue of labour abuse to be subject to a special law governing the obligations of employers and employees to take preventive measures to create a healthy working environment and to prevent the occurrence of labour abuse and to regulate the protection of persons exposed to abuse, as well as sanctions for such behaviour. Mr. Minister, the President-in-Office, that is why the PUPS Group will vote in favour of this bill. Dear fellow Members, what is our role in passing this law? We need today to be unique in the adoption of this law and in the day of voting we must vote it, not with 130 votes, but with 250 votes. Why? Because it's our constitutional, moral and human obligation. That's what Serbian citizens expect. Now a few words about the draft law on volunteering. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 18, guarantees and direct application of human and minority rights guaranteed by the universal rules of international law, approved international contracts and laws. The Voluntary Law is based on the principles established by the ratified international conventions in this area, which are: the UN General Declaration on Human Rights (donated in 1948), the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (Donet 1966), the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (Done 2004), as well as the documents of the United Nations, the European Union and the Council of Europe, which promote volunteering and encourage countries to support volunteer activities. It is true, as you said, Mr. Minister, that our legal system does not know volunteering as a voluntary service for general good or for the benefit of another person without compensation. So far, it has been known that health care professionals, according to the Health Protection Act, can volunteer for graduation within a year and then access professional state exams. The PUPS Group thinks this is where these kids' internships should be recognised, they're nurses, nurses, pharmacists, dentists and others. Volunteering is based on principles set out in the UN, EU and SE ratified international conventions, as I said. By adopting this law on volunteering, our legal system introduces volunteering for the first time as a form of voluntary work for the general good, without obtaining compensation and property benefits. So far, volunteering has been known, as I have said, in certain areas, i.e. specific laws, such as the Health Protection Act, where volunteering also meant professional training and training in order to carry out a traineeship, passing a professional exam or specialization. In this way, by adopting a law on volunteering, there will be a clear distinction between volunteering and employment on the basis of a labour contract and, on the other hand, providing legal protection for volunteers and users of their services from potential damage. Although this proposal promotes volunteer work, we resent, Mr. Minister, which provides for an age limit for volunteers, which is pointless, because it is precisely for the founders, the youngest, under 18 years of age that the spirit of such engagement should be developed. Also, it must not be disturbed with the mind that this is about the human use of free time (working with old people, working with children, working with Roma), and that the goal of this work is not always to gain experience, because in this it is not just young people, but it is often employed and people with experience. Due to everything presented today, Mr. Minister, I assure you that the PUPS Parliamentary Group will vote on both draft laws in the voting day. I ask MPs of all options in the Assembly to come out with 250 votes and to vote in favour of the citizens of Serbia who expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40555	Ten minutes was used by a time-authorized representative. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40556	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities that I represent and as a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, to present several important concerns on two draft laws on the agenda. First of all, I'd like to talk about the draft law on preventing work abuse. What matters is the question that is being asked – why is this law being passed now? It is known that abuse at work is more pronounced when there is a transition of the economy, i.e. the privatisation process. It is during these processes that these negativity begins, starting with the restructuring of the economy, when a surplus of employees can be established that can be the starting point for the psychological torture of employees. The need for the adoption of this new law on the prevention of labour abuse is at the stage of the development of our society, the conditions and the way in which businesses and entrepreneurs, which have over 150,000, are extremely pronounced and important. The proposed text of the law calls for a number of issues and imposes serious dilemmas and the need to remove the perceived inconsistencies, i.e. by different normative regulation and solutions, at least slightly improve the bill's proposal, and all in the best interest of improving quality and fully revived, i.e. the implementation of this law in the legal space and practice of the Republic of Serbia. The legislation of the majority of European and other countries is very vaguely addressing the problem of labour abuse, so-called mobbing, most often through the employer's obligation to care for the protection of physical and mental health at work, and in fact, one of the biggest reasons for the fact that in practice there are a large number of cases of abuse is, according to various surveys of public opinion, the lack of legal protection of workers. All several European countries have a special law on mobbing. We from the Group of Minorities and SVM certainly support that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised the need and this problem and has prepared this bill. However, I would like to stress that it is one thing to prepare the law, to adopt it, and another thing is to apply this law in practice, which is, you'll agree, much harder. The aim of this bill is to provide a comprehensive preventive system of protection against abuse, to ensure rapid and effective protection for employees through short deadlines for handling and a greater number of temporary safeguards. Another important objective of this law is to understand that the only healthy and human working environment is the place where people can give maximum of themselves, that teamwork, team spirit, efficiency, as the ultimate goal of a particular enterprise or employer. However, the remarks I would like to make are that the proposed legal text does not express enough that, in the case of abuse, employees are actually exposed to psychological abuse and putting into a helpless, helpless position and situation. It is not fully highlighted as being abused as objects of abuse, constant assault, humiliation and indulging, all the way to the point where the abused cannot function normally. There is no indication of sexual or any harassment that disturbs the peace of the employee, regardless of gender; ignoring and professional demeanor, ridicule and various threats. A deviation from the fact that in a more complete, consistent and explicit way of explaining the concept of abuse in work, emphasising the suffering of an employee, his psychological and ethical position due to the suffering of harassment, is a serious deviation from the implementation of the notional practice of this, you will agree, psychopathological phenomena at work and regarding the work in our legal system, the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. As we have heard in the presentation of Mr. Minister, according to this bill, the aim is to try to resolve all conflicts with the employer through the introduction of mediation, mediation, and so on. Mediator. I'd like theoretically, if time lets me, to bring out the most essential aspects of abuse, since it seems to me that we're talking about abuse at work here, and that everything is clouded. As I said, the very definition of the law is not the best, and for the sake of the public, I want to present the most important aspects of labour abuse that are recognised in various countries, perhaps in the Republic of Serbia some are less and some are more recognized. I would also like to commend the ladies who worked with us on the Committee when we spoke in public about so-called syndromes. full and empty table. For example, the most important aspects of labour abuse are: getting extremely many tasks with very short deadlines, so-called. Table-full syndrome; the completely opposite situation is that employees are not given any tasks, so he or she is completely isolated because she has no means of work (so-called Empty Table syndrome; communication problems between superiors and employees; physical separation from other colleagues; retention of information or deliberate giving of completely wrong information; and unfortunately, those forms of work abuse that are with us and how you recognize: the inability to use annual leave, the failure to pay earnings for overtime, the failure to sign a work contract, the illegal signing of an agreement on termination of employment, illegal dismissal, etc. Trade unions in our companies, unfortunately, don't work at all, even though they should be the first defense workers. The most important reason for the phenomenon of labour abuse is employment for a certain time. It puts employees under a lot of pressure because of the constant possibility of losing their jobs, because they have too many years, their working skills at that point do not match the employer, e.g. They expect a child, the employer considers them unreliable and similar situations. Employers can also feel the effects of mobbing – employees are not motivated, labour performance stagnates, and at the same time business costs rise due to the cost of living and introducing new workers. Mobbing will be strictly sanctioned under this new law, that is, under the bill of law. The bill provides for the right of employees to file a lawsuit and request judicial protection in a litigation procedure which, unlike the practice so far, would be conducted according to an accelerated procedure, which we from the Minority Parliament Club certainly support. As one of the means of protection, as mentioned, a process of mediation between the two parties is envisaged in the dispute, which must end in eight days. If the mediation fails, the employer will carry out the disciplinary responsibility procedure against whoever caused the abuse. An employee who is in the workplace who has been hit by an arrogant executive or a colleague has the right to make a profit if he refuses to work under such conditions. We have to stay, we'll all agree, persistent in punishing all employers who mistreated their employees. The abuse of work is therefore a specific form of behavior in the workplace where someone (any person or group of persons) is in various ways, planned, designed and sophisticated, distracting another person with the aim of endangering honor, reputation, dignity and, in the extreme line, elimination from the workplace. Such aggression is in fact an open attack on the integrity of another person, who characterizes insults, demeaning and violation of basic human rights. This type of aggression is hard to prove because it is invisible, negligible and masked. However, it is a strong and targeted action of an unfair way of thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, we often spend more time in the workplace than with our family, and it is therefore very important to ensure a healthy working environment, raise awareness of the problem and organise assistance to victims, who are in most cases young, only employed, or those before retirement, peaceful and retired workers who are afraid of losing their jobs, so just keep quiet and suffer. If you'll excuse me, I'll also make a few objections to the draft law on volunteering. I hope we find common ground in the debate this week and in particular. I have personally submitted several amendments, but also MPs from other parliamentary groups, as well as the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I hope that at least some of these amendments will be accepted in order to find a common solution, because I believe that the objective of adopting a volunteer law is to pass a law that can be applied in practice and that is acceptable to voluntary organisations. As we have heard many times today, our legal system so far has not known volunteering as a voluntary free service for the general good or for the good of another. The importance of adopting a law on volunteering is firstly to introduce this form of volunteering into Serbia's legal system. The objective of the adoption of the Voluntary Law should be to provide legal protection for volunteers, as well as to protect users of their services against potential damages that may arise. Volunteering is, within the meaning of this Voluntary Law proposal, organised voluntary provision of services or carrying out activities of general interest, for the general good or for the benefit of another person without payment of cash compensation or claim of other property benefit. It refers to activities of public interest which contribute to improving the quality of life. However, a number of comments, public objections and civil society were made during public debates organised in the preparatory phase of this legislation. Some civil society comments have been adopted, but in very few; those who significantly change the nature of the law are not. One of the biggest concerns of the NGO sector, which I agree with, is that the provisions of this law also apply to short-term volunteering. This solution is the source of most of the problems in this law. All several examples: volunteering (and short-term) is done on the basis of a volunteering contract. The contract must also be concluded in the short-term volunteering with minors, foreign citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who volunteer abroad, at the request of volunteers, organisers or volunteering users. Secondly, the organizer of volunteering (and short-term) is obliged to issue a volunteer’s certificate of volunteering at his request. Third, the organizer of the volunteering (and short-term) is obliged to apply for the organisation of volunteering to the competent ministry. It is unclear why during the short-term volunteering, the organisation shall also take place, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Labour, on a volunteering programme, which shall be declared within 15 days of the day of receipt of the volunteering programme. So, as I mentioned, the bill in this proposed form regulates both long-term and short-term volunteering. In addition to those mentioned above, this includes keeping records of short-term volunteering and submitting to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy the annual volunteering report. This concept of comprehensive regulation and volunteering is contrary to the nature of volunteering as a voluntary and private initiative of citizens, which requires a minimum legislative initiative. This concept of comprehensive regulation of volunteering is not in the spirit of relevant international documents, including a recommendation from the Council of Europe which explicitly calls on the member states of the Council of Europe to remove legal obstacles to the development of volunteering. In particular, the legal regulation of short-term volunteering is contrary to good comparative practice, as it is subject to specific legislative regulatory predominant long-term volunteering. The short-term volunteering shall be subject to the general rules of the bond law governing the issues of responsibility of the organisers of the public gathering. In this form, we have formulated the amendment and I have personally handed it over and I hope that we will hear in the debate in particular whether the Ministry is ready to accept an amendment whose aim is to apply this law only to long-term volunteering and to apply to the short-term volunteering provisions relating to public gathering organizers. Furthermore, this bill lays down the right of a company to organise volunteering and short-term ad hoc volunteer action and long-term volunteering programmes, provided that the area of volunteering is out of service for which the company is registered, that volunteering does not win and that volunteering does not replace work. Volunteering must in no way replace the work of employees and it is necessary to prevent the abuse of voluntary free work from increasing the competitiveness of economic operators, and therefore these proposed solutions are also controversial. The short-term volunteering organised by the company is burdened with a number of administrative duties of the state, resulting in the depletion of this form of volunteering, volunteering in the function of socially responsible business. Long-term volunteering programmes are NGOs programmes, through which volunteers participate in non-profit activities, in jobs that benefit the community of individuals. Next, it is said that volunteering can also perform a face that is at least 15 years old. This provision in the most direct way eliminates volunteering in elementary school, in an institution that is in the best position for young people to develop a culture of volunteering. This is in direct contrast with the intention of promoting volunteering as human, socially useful, private and voluntary activities. Unfortunately, NGO representatives who are involved in volunteering are not satisfied with the proposed text and argue that if the volunteering law is passed in this form and we consistently apply it, the work of volunteer organisations will become difficult and destimulate volunteering, which none of us wants. I must therefore stress, on behalf of the Minority Club and the SVM, that we hope to reconsider the possibility of improving disputed solutions so that in the voting day we can all vote on this bill. So it's not only important what the bill will look like, but what it will apply in practice. I am sure that the objective of the Ministry of Labour and of us MPs is to bring this law and its adequate application in practice to improve volunteering as a human activity useful to all of us, and most of all to those most vulnerable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40557	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40558	Interestingly, this agenda appears, since the law against abuse at work and the law on volunteering have been formally joined in one point. Even if this is not a reflection of the essential situation in Serbia, as volunteers are the first on the list of abused and disproved, it cannot possibly be good that two such important and conceptually new proposals are fusiond. But looking at all the mergers we've had over two years of this congregation's convocation, we should be overjoyed not to have all the points connected to one, along with the material in English, so that the promoters don't bother with the translations and transcriptions of European legislation. It is not quite true what the president of the Stop Moving Association, Mr. Aleksandar Ilic, said that a large number of experts, psychologists do not know at all about the concept of mobbing, that MPs in parliament think that the mobing is something related to the use of mobile phones. Definitely, opposition MPs not only know on the theoretical plan what abuse is at work, the famous mobing, but they have absorbed it from the victim's position, feeling on their skin that all forms of labour abuse can have. For the sake of the public, it is necessary to say what is and what phenomenal forms have so-called mobing, i.e. abuse at work. The term "mobing" into our language has entered as an Anglicism; it is actually a coin of the verb "to mob" - convulsed in mass, loudly pounce on someone and verb "bullying" - abuse, whine. The term “bullying” is used for example. in the school and university frameworks when it is in the middle of harassing students by other students or teachers. German psychologist Heinz Lyman was the first scientist to start investigating this phenomenon and first used the name mobing for certain workplace behaviors, determined their characteristics, health consequences and founded a clinic to help victims of mobbing. The word "mobing" Lijman used from the etimology of Konrad Lorenca, already spoken of by counterpart Meho Omerovic, who, in effect, marked the behaviour of some types of animals that team up against one of his members, attacked and expelled from the community, sometimes killing him. A long time ago it turned out that a man can be more than a wolf. Mobing is often defined as psychological terror in business life, and this terror is a second name for hostile and unethical communication aimed at an individual who is incapable of defending himself. In order to diagnose mobbing abuse, it must take six months, and because of its frequency and long duration, the victims eventually leave the workplace alone, often with psychosomatic consequences and need medical attention. According to its structure, mobing is an insult to honor and reputation, containing slander, insult and violation of basic human rights, but is not specifically indicated as a criminal offence. Sexual harassment, ignoring, ridicule, threats, depravity of the cause are just some forms of abuse. Mobing is a widespread phenomenon, most often studied in the workplace, and the consequences are reflected in the social environment, the working environment and individuals, so the problem can also be seen from a medical and sociological, legal and psychological-psychiatric point of view. The creation of mobbing in the workplace contributes to an insufficiently transparent atmosphere, strong hierarchy, shortcomings in internal information, inadequate conduct of management, insufficiently demarcated jurisdiction and division of tasks, shortcomings in personal management, repression of disputes and conflicts. The very important cause of the appearance of mobbing in a working environment is certainly a very bad working climate in which envy, malice, enmity and pressure rule. Unfulfilled ambitions by only one member of the task force can be a reason for him to start mobbing in order to humiliate or discredit someone or more of them, in order to highlight his abilities. When it comes to mober, abuser, Aleksandar Ilic, president of the Stop Moving Association, says they are less capable, but powerful persons, without the capacity for love, joy, play, creativity, giving and sharing. Wet are people with lack of emotion. They hide their powerlessness in another sphere of their life, mostly in private, marriage or family. They are easily joined by the weak, in fear of becoming victims. They identify with the aggressor, or they step on their side. They form around them a group in which they prove power and importance at the expense of the victim. Often abusers feel inferior. There's this famous sentence that can paint a profile of a webber – behind every potential there's some impotence. Jasmina Nikolic, the leader of the Serbian Victimological Society, suggests that in the world mobing is primarily seen as a result of the Webber psychopathology, by the definition of narcissoids and by some basis a complicated person, who treats his frustrations at work, finding a suitable victim. In transition countries, there is often a deviation from the original definition and motive of mobbing in the process. This is often the way in which extra employees are literally forced to leave work on their own free will, thus liberating the employer of all the legal obligations he would have to the dismissed worker, and most often these are severances. In the case of a strategic mobing victim, workers are retired, low-skilled workforce and young workers without experience. What are all the ways to move? These are: attacks on the possibility of adequate communication, whether verbal, whether non-verbal; attacks on the possibility of maintaining social relations through isolation and ignoring; attacks on personal reputation - inventing stories about the personal life of the victim, gossip, ridicule, negative commentation on its personal characteristics; attacks on the quality of the professional situation - permanent criticism, objections, insults, excessive control, low labour scores and frequent punishments, seizing resources for work, giving tasks that are disproportionate to the education of the victim, filling jobs and setting short deadlines for their resolution. In the end, but no less important, there are health attacks, when the victim is forced to do jobs and tasks that harm her health or worsen already impaired health, she is not granted vacations and holidays, threatened with physical reckonings, verbally and sexually abused and the like. Mobing can be horizontal and vertical. Horizontal mobing occurs among workers who are in the same position on the hierarchy scale in the company. A sense of danger, envy and jealousy can spur a desire to eliminate a colleague, especially if it is thought that his elimination can lead to progress in the mobile career. Vertical mobbing occurs when the alleged abuses one child worker; when the alleged abuses one worker at a time until he destroys the whole group (so-called a strategic mobing or ‘bosing’; or where a group of subordinated workers abuses one of the supposed. Turns out transition is an extremely fertile ground for the development of mobbing. It is no coincidence that in Serbia, the issue of mobbingastitititi was in the first decade of the 21st century, as the acceptance of the capitalist model almost certainly results in the division of roles that are inevitably followed by the problems of transition. Exposures to the galloping pace of modern life are daily faced with new situations that set concrete goals before them. In an effort to achieve these goals, they take on the roles set in the family, friendship, partnership, and especially at work. Playing roles introduces man into countless interactions with other people, who are often accompanied by positive but also negative emotions and experiences. Initial reprimands, cold looks often escalate in abusive words, harsh insults, and other unwanted behaviors, especially in relationships where the victim is in a subordinate position versus the perpetrator. In the context of poor social security and underdeveloped labour market, in fear of their own existence and the existence of their family, employees are often exposed to the extremely unacceptable behaviour of employers. If such behaviours become permanent and in general a harsh violation of the right to dignity, reputation and honor, then we are talking about mobbing. However, the relationship between the employer-employee, where the victim is exclusively a subordinate, does not exhaust the phenomenon that is at stake. The conflict of generations, both technologically and biologically, represents another difficult environment, which does not allow a system of values to rise up that would rule out a confusing and extremely poor position for a young man who is ambitiously and easily entering a workplace if he gets a chance at work at all. Of course, the poor position was not avoided by the elderly who, as a result of the change, are not able to cope, fear each decision, becoming more and more insecure in themselves. In the case of mobbing, the victim always loses confidence, in order to force himself to accept inhumane working conditions, and unless he does so to leave his post. This, of course, can be done in different ways: inappropriate and unethical comments by the executives, by interrupting during speech, by denying business contacts and information, by shouting at the victim, by giving incomplete instructions, by humiliating gestures, by attacking individuals and social contacts, by having a personal reputation -- that's the famous invention of stories, by spreading gossip about the personal life of the victim, by mocking, by exploiting human weaknesses, by imitating, by attacking political, religious beliefs, by commenting on the expense of personal life, looks, origin, illusions or even open sexual offers. On the other hand, what is the specificity of our country is that the mobing involves primarily working on black, and also not allowing the use of vacations, unpaid overwork hours. Only obvious examples of mobbing are listed here, and there are far more subtle ones, which are much harder to undertake under the appropriate legal framework. For example, emotional relationships at work where the damaged party or pretends to be the victim of mobbing or real mobing, depending on the position of the firm and character, or by its behaviour it causes another person to make a mobing and thus cunning and the ability to manipulate the execution of the executioner becomes a victim. The results of Gallup's research say that as many as 60% of people in Serbia fear losing their jobs, and fear of firing is actually a driving mechanism for psychological harassment and humiliation of colleagues. In Serbia, mobing has some distinctive forms. Psychological torture is usually aimed at liberating excess labour in privatised enterprises that need to be modernised, and this torture is carried out through intimidation and transfer to another workplace, insult and non-payment of overtime work. Another type of mobbing is the decommissioning of the work of capable, active and professional workers in state-owned enterprises and bringing in unprofessional listeners with no working experience, in order to further deprive the company and sell as cheaply as possible in the privatisation process. The third is a political mobing, which eliminates political opponents in the public sector and the state service. A very widespread form of mobbing is the release and intimidation of union activists, says Olga Kicanovic, a lawyer and adviser at the republican Agency for Peace of Work Dispute Resolution. Who are the victims of the mobbing? Psychological studies say that these are mostly young people and people who have just been hired. They become victims of psychological torture because of fear of competition and their affirmation. At the same risk are persons who, after years of impeccable work and above-average advocates, seek recognition of employment position and salary increase, whose career is on the rise and employees who spot and report irregularities in the work. Often the victims of mobbing become very creative people who tend to introduce innovations and highly motivated to work, and this illogicality is psychologically explained by the excess of vanity over the employer's economic interest. Serbian experience suggests that women are often victims of mobbing. They're the first on the release list, and the last on the employment list. Research is making the following division: the most characteristic victims of mobbing include so-called honest workers who have seen and reported work irregularities; disabled persons with various degrees and forms of physical disability; young workers and workers who seek better working conditions or more independence in work; workers who, after years of time of impeccable work, seek recognition of work position or salary increase; excess labour force; minority groups; different religions, workers of different ethnic backgrounds, workers of different sex, women in a group of men or men in a group of women, workers of different sexual orientation; highly creative personalities, eccentrics and sick persons. Frequent job absences due to illness cause dissatisfaction with employers. Sometimes employers deliberately burden workers at very weak points; for example, the one with the sick spine allows them to carry heavy burdens. Psychologist Heinz Lyman, who has been mobing for the past 20 years, says psychological harassment has several forms of appearance. Psychological abuse often begins with subtle remarks on the basis of the quality of someone's work that are on the border of objective, but also underprivileged comments, so that these professional remarks become more and more personal notes. In time, gossip about the victim's private life begins, questions are raised about the quality of her work, she is either publicly criticised or thrown out of a mockery, moved to another workplace, isolated from the social environment, gets too many work assignments, or her job is taken away, and is prevented from using daily or annual vacations. What matters is what are the consequences of mobbing on health. Mentally, they include: initial self - blame that leads to confusion, anxiety; then, the feeling of loneliness being passed on from work to a family that does not support the victim. Researchers practically call this phenomenon double-mobbing. Also, personal demeanor, feeling less valuable, which goes to the sense of complete worthlessness, which all leads the victim of the mobbing to real depression. Health disorders that are the consequences of mobbing can be reflected at several levels of function. At the socio-emotional level, mood swings, depression, crisis pay, obsessive thinking of the problem, panic attacks, a sense of depersonalisation, social isolation, loss of interest for other people, including family members, and emotional dullness are observed. At the physical health level, there are: headaches, dizziness, feeling of loss of balance, sleep disorder, gastrointestinal disorder, feeling of shortness of breath and pressure in the chest, heart problems, changes in the skin. At the level of behaviour, there is increased aggression towards yourself and others, pasivisation, eating disorder and appetite, overuse of alcohol and cigarettes, drug abuse, sexual dysfunction. In the international classification of disease, there is still no specific diagnostic category for mobing, so the health disorder caused by mobing is usually characterized as an adaptation disorder or as a post-traumatic stress disorder. How do you fight your mobbing? Of course, above all adequate legal standards and their real application in practice. Only eight countries in the world have law on mobbing: France, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland. It is so good that a law against mobbing, or abuse at work, is passed in Serbia too, as it turns out that this phenomenon cannot be handled unless a special law is passed. Namely, the first sentence for mobbing in Serbia was made at the end of 2008, and since no special law was passed, abuse charges were most frequently filed under the Labour Act, Criminal Law (most often Article 37 - violation of dignity) and by the law on bonds, for compensation of material and immaterial damages. Another reason to support the adoption of a special law is the fact that mobbing in Serbia is growing into a national problem. With a dozen cases reported in 2006, 55% of all forms of violence, type of crime, victims of war, human trafficking, domestic violence reached 55% of all forms of violence. A particular problem is related to the specificity of the Serbian mobbing, and this is due to the longest transition in Europe. Although it is known in the world that wet, i.e. abusers are usually insecure individuals, in fact, it is a personality disorder, which is characterized by three "n"s—instruction, ignorance, unconsciousness, Serbian wetlands, or, as they themselves say, "bismists", who have no experience in dealing with workers, lack business ethics and traditions, but are therefore happily seen guests in a large number of embassies and political parties close to these embassies. Not to talk about mobbing in public services and in functions, which are impossible to achieve on the basis of brains, work and ability, but only on the basis of political belongings. Honestly, as a psychologist, I can't help but be against the adoption of a special law aimed at preventing abuse at work. Also, as a psychologist and a politician, I can't help but notice how this kind of law will be adopted, and all the amendments that we have submitted, because there are plenty of weak places, will be extremely unilaterally applied, with the possibility of frequent abuses, both by the tycoons and by the nursed workers, of course, in both cases from the victim's position. (President: 20 minutes. The time available has been used. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40559	National MP Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40560	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on preventing labour abuse and the draft law on volunteering are two draft laws that the MPs of the SPS-JS Group will support and give their vote in the day of voting for them. I'm going to state the position of our parliamentary group a few times when it comes to both of these laws. The first law, the law on preventing labour abuse, Mr. Minister, which has a basic message that the state says - it is forbidden to abuse at work, we will take measures to prevent it, to protect those against whom abuse has been committed, to impose sanctions, all in all is a law that absolutely corresponds to my party's policy, the SPS-JS Groups and we give full support to such a law. Let me unjustly put it in one sentence, but the law that gives such a message deserves absolute support, as we will support any law that deals with the protection of workers to the end, absolutely. Let us go from the Constitution, the Constitution says that everyone has the right to respect the dignity of his personality at work, safe and healthy working conditions and necessary protection at work. Just enough ground for the state to rely on it through law and other measures to oppose anything that falls away from it. The law on prevention of labour abuse is in a way specific and, I repeat, a very important law, because it deals with protection, no one will blame me, especially workers, because it is he who is the target of abuse. It is true that the Labour Act provided for direct and indirect discrimination in its provisions and provided for a form of protection for employees and persons seeking employment, but this is something new, deeper. It is evident that new forms appear, very perfidious; in a perfidious way, abuse, workers are brought into an unexplainable situation, which can also end up getting out of work, getting out of the company. Of course it's characteristic of all countries. Serbia is favourable to such a thing. Serbia is a country in transition, moving from one system to another, a country where there are many unsuccessful privatisations, without or with delayed control. Serbia, due to its existential threat, is the harsh conditions of working-place survival, which reduces the number of workers, an extremely favourable ground for labour abuse. We have just heard various examples of how it seems, starting with the fact that the worker is being prevented from doing, deprived of all responsibilities, obligations and work responsibilities, and to make it known that he is too high; to bury himself with commitments and tasks that he cannot finish, to be exposed to constant criticism, complaints, etc., under constant stress and criticism. I return to the question of who are the most frequent victims of abuse in Serbia. The worker again. We just heard from Mr. Secretary that out of all the victims of abuse, over 50% of them commit labour abuse. Of course, it is very possible that the victim of abuse may also be a manager, but it is possible in the sphere, most often it is a worker and most often he pays the bills, as he normally paid the bills for all the processes that were held in Serbia. Of course, it applies primarily to new employees, those who have been declared a technological surplus, those before retirement, and God forbid if a worker dares to see and report work irregularity or to seek better working conditions, there is an excellent chance of being the subject of abuse. I want to point out a phenomenon in Serbia that I consider significant. I believe that now, when this law is passed, it is important to warn of the most important thing, and that is the application of the law. The main question is how to recognize what abuse is, and what is strict application of the Labour Act. There's going to be a problem and the main question, and I think we should deal with it. Why do I say that? There are many issues in Serbia where employers see the abuse of the Labour Law and go without consequences by committing abuse. Just a few examples: let's say, the victim of abuse is being deployed from one job to another, as they say, in the interest of business. They offer to sign the contract annex, and if the worker doesn't sign them, according to the Labour Act, he loses his job. Real redistribution of working hours, offering work on shifts outside of the apartment, making employees work twice. They miserably pay, do not pay contributions, insult and force overtime without compensation, sexually harass, blackmail to accept impossible working conditions, etc. So it is absolutely possible for a worker to deploy to another job in the interest of work; it is absolutely possible to offer an annex contract. What is the key question – is this the result of abuse or objective needs in the company? I warn again, when it comes to this law, the main question is its application and recognition, etc. What I would like to point out when it comes to this law is that it determines, in a way, four levels, as I would say, when it comes to prevention, or protection from abuse. The first priority insists on this, giving priority to preventive measures and preventing abuse, which is logical and normal and what should certainly be supported. Measures and obligations are foreseen, above all, by the employer's obligation because he is the one who is obliged to create such working conditions in which the abuse of employees will be prevented. Secondly, if this happens, the law provides for the protection of employees in two ways, and the first is to insist and give priority to the peaceful resolution of the dispute, with mediation. We almost, if you remember, last year, discussed a law, a Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. That's the variant. What does a peaceful dispute resolution mean? That whoever's the victim of abuse has the right to initiate a protective procedure. The employer is obliged to offer mediation; he sets out by agreement, and he who is the victim of abuse, and he who does so, the mediator. Data is a wide range of people who can be a mediator; it can be someone who's on the list of the employer himself, someone who's from the list of organs or organizations that deal with it, or associations that deal with it, but always the most important thing is that it has to be a neutral person, a person who enjoys trust, because he's the one who runs the mediation process. It is also good that the union president is given the opportunity to participate in the dispute. It's good, and it'll always be good, when unions are properly involved when it comes to the protection of employees. It is also good that all the social partners participated in the preparation of this law, because all of them are concerned. It is good that it applies to all employers, so not only those in companies, as we usually say, but also to those in state bodies, bodies of local self-government, territorial autonomy, etc., because there are also abuses of workers at work. The fourth, when the protection of the employee is not carried out peacefully, with intervention, remains the judicial protection, which is of course as urgent as it is when it comes to mediation. In this way, it is possible for that institution to be in the position of protection of employees. Finally, sanctions are provided for all those who do not comply with the law. I'll end up with the law giving good grounds, but the main job will be law enforcement. The main job is to identify what it is to abuse and the main job is to force the state to make its own measures to protect all who are possible victims to the end. We will give full support to the bill. As far as volunteering law is concerned, I just want to say in a few sentences the position of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group. We've heard from Mr. Minister that our legal system doesn't know how to volunteer, but life, I can even tell him tradition, and how he knows it. Volunteering, or perhaps better to say voluntary work without compensation, appears in various forms, from traditional forms of providing mutual assistance; let us remember, in many parts of Serbia, it is called the mob, when people gathered on a voluntary basis and helped each other in various situations. Regardless of the different opinions, I want to remind myself of a kind of voluntary work, which is youth's work. Youth work actions were recognizable in this country; at a time when they were maintained they contributed greatly to the development of this country, along roads, railways and bridges were made and people. And what a big message since then... So volunteering, voluntary work existed and it exists. He was not legally regulated and it is good to regulate him in this way. I want to point out some things when it comes to volunteering. I repeat, when the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group is concerned, if volunteering is intended to do good to someone else, to another organisation or to the general good, if it is non-profit, if it is outside the working legislation, if it contributes to active involvement of citizens in social processes and the development of a more human and equal democratic society of equal opportunities, as well as to improving the quality of life of citizens, it is quite a reason for us to give our vote for this law. So we support the very idea, the essence of voluntary work. When it comes to the text itself, we want to point out that there is an even more detailed need to talk about each of these solutions. Why? To get one law that would absolutely end up processing that area and being in everyone's best interest. The law recognises three categories: volunteer (one who works voluntarily), volunteer (the one who organizes it) and volunteer (the one who has more than that). They should all be protected. Of course, with the support of the law where the volunteer and the user of volunteering are protected, but once again we need to look at the part that talks about contracts, do we in any way disable the organizer of volunteering, do we need to make it simpler and easier, all in order to develop and encourage this work? I want to point out another possibility, which should be paid attention. These are abuses of volunteering (this is even one principle in the law), not to be in that sense to replace work and not to be gaining profits. Then it doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40561	Twenty minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40562	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Gentlemen of the Ministry, since I do not have the opportunity to speak to the Minister again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first say a few words as to the law on the prevention of labour abuse. First of all, I again express the wonder why these two laws, such as the law on preventing abuse at work and the law on volunteering, have been joined together. I really don't see a way, and I don't see a connection that they can be connected, unless, if I can comment, which in Serbia is an increasing number of volunteers, volunteer workers who go to work to work for someone else's gain, communities first of all, because they don't get paid. So when we talk about the law on preventing abuse at work, I have to start with the law being in the assembly procedure for almost a year and a half, but for some reason the ruling majority was not interested, to put it on the agenda so far. My humble opinion is that this law, along with the Law on Gender Equality, is the Law on Preventing Discrimination, but also a good Law on Labour, one of those laws that every country that thinks of itself must adopt, and therefore I welcome the desire of the majority to put it on the agenda. But when I look at a little analytically that difficulty to put it on the agenda, but also the way the law is written, because, according to the Union of Employers, Workers, Judges and us humble politicians, the law is quite unspeakable, it speaks for itself in some way. In addition, when you read in the light of the law that no additional funding will be needed for the application of the law in Serbia, it is something that can only cause a very bitter smile on the faces of us who think that the law should be passed and that it is important for the country of Serbia. Why am I saying that? Have you, gentlemen of the Ministry, been following the path of the law in public? How many doubts did the judges have? Do you think they need education? I think they need an education. She's costing something. Then, do you think employers, directors of public enterprises, will, for example, have to go to some education regarding communication, or management skills or human rights? I think you should have and you have to have that obligation. It's also costing something. So if we say you don't need any money, except for the one that's supposed to be in the education budget, I don't think that's an adequate answer, a team before you say what I'm saying in Article 7. So something doesn't add up. When we talk about abuse as a phenomenon, it is of course not a new phenomenon, nor is it a phenomenon concerning only Serbia in transition, nor just countries in transition; the data is that it appears in almost all countries, developed and undeveloped, in the same way, but what it has been paying attention to for the last ten years is that story of abuse at work or mobbing. Well, what's abuse at work and what's that mobing really about? It's actually a psychological terror that refers to communication with an individual, and that communication is hostile or unethical. This type of terror is repeated in one period. Different definitions treat this period differently, but some middle term is six months. Thus, the frequency is high; all of this leads to the mental, psychosomatic, and social suffering of the victim, i.e. to changing the victim’s mental and physical state. The forms of psychological harassment are indeed numerous and very diverse. Sometimes they're so perfidious that only the victim can have insight because they're directed and recognizable only to her. I'll list some of the forms because I think the public should know, and that's an opportunity for us MPs in the Assembly to talk a little bit about it, because some of these forms happen here. For example, one of them is when an MP is denied adequate communication by frequent interruption and entry into the word, or when an MP is prevented from completing the thought. Also, what's a specialty here from the Assembly is that non-verbal communication with the victim cannot be established; looks are avoided, let's say, on this side of the hall, no signs like raising hands and so forth. Moving is both preventing or limiting normal social contacts and relationships. It's also a threat to the very personality and reputation of the victim. These are criticisms for no reason, objections, controls, penalties, humiliating tasks. Also, it's an unargumented attack on the quality of the work of one who's been abused at work. But one of the most drastic is the endangerment of the individual's mental and physical health. The psychological torture in the workplace is very often open and brutal, but it is sometimes refined – let's say, the victim is given to perform a lot of pointless tasks, a large number of short-term tasks, and then being hunted for mistakes and being punished by seizing funds for work. Here, what is known to both the MPs and the general public, the last thing we saw was an example of Secretary of State Mark Karadzic. It might be nice to open that question, so you can tell us if you knew that a man was abused at work. One of the ways in which work abuse is done is also to give the victim jobs that do not correspond to its professional preparation. It is a typical political fight with political inexperiences: it happens, for example, after the change of government, after the change of government and the formation of a new government, that all those who were in the previous leading furniture immediately receive jobs that do not correspond to their professional storage, or are sitting at an empty table, as it is said, and have no tasks or are in any completely subordinate position. However, I think the most drastic example of abuse and abuse at work is the endangerment of the life of the victim. For example, one of these examples is that some employees cannot exercise their right to vacation, cannot exercise their right to their days off, or work overtime, or throw them into one, two, or three shifts without any order and lead them to abuse at work. The Serbian variant of mobbing, which has been very pronounced lately, is working on black, where victims of labour abuse are deprived of all rights from the domain of work. What would be the ultimate goal of abuse at work? The need for the abuser to leave his post. In this way, the question of those employees who are not at our disposal can be resolved, which can be driven away by leaving their own workplace, because then we have no obligation to pay them for everything that the state prescribes. Who could be the victim of the mobbing? Each one of us can be a victim of mobbing, a team before people are mostly silent, afraid for their jobs. I have here a statement by Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic, when she represented the law. I like her, so I'll read her: "Most employees in Serbia recognize the fear of losing their jobs as fear with the strongest intensity. This fear is even stronger than fear of health, and it is an ideal situation for mobing, because employees with such fear can suffer long-term abuse at work. The problem cannot only be solved by law and therefore we appeal to employers and trade unions to be partners against abuse at work." So that fear is something that is very important and that everyone uses. On the other hand, people are terrified of their status and their workplace, and that's why you often feel abuse, and your own, but to God and what's happening in their work environment. According to the "Stop Moving" association, 1281 cases of labour abuse were in Serbia in 2008. Among the victims of mobbing there are a little more women, although the stereotype is that much more women are abused at work than the number of men. So, according to statistics, she's a little more women than men. In addition, it is very interesting that the largest number, over half of those who have been abused at work, are actually those who are younger than 30 years old, although it is also a high percentage of those who are over 50 years old. That the abuse of work and that of our companies is also the information of the Serbian Victemological Society that 51% of all victims who turned their phone have just reported abuse at work during 2008. What I think I should say, and I think it's very important, and what we need to be particularly concerned about as a society is the tendency of society itself, and especially the environment in which abuse happens at work, to get used to violence, and to violence after a while, to be seen as something normal and common. It often happens that the victim himself is beginning to suspect that she's wrong and that she's looking for a share of her own guilt in all this. Another prejudice that needs to be broken is that mobbing is most often connected to private companies. According to the latest statistics, the highest number of labour abuses is in the authorities of the state administration, in the ministries and secretariats, then in education, health and culture, which is frantic, because these institutions and institutions should represent social prevention of such phenomena. Who helps victims of abuse at work? If we look at society, society is quite unprepared and quite indifferent to this problem and to the victims. If asked of a working environment, one who is in a position to help victims abuse at work, and she behaves quite indifferently, precisely because of these fears that are related to loss of status and loss of employment. There are only a small number of NGOs involved in helping the victims of mobbing and should be mentioned: every day between five and ten people turn the phone of the NGO "Antimobeing", which specializes in helping the victims of mobbing, and every other person who reports to the Victimological Society of Serbia is the person who reports abuse at work and is the victim of torture at work. Interesting data is, I think I should mention it, not to think of Serbia as a black hole, this is the problem of the world. In Germany, say, a thousand suicides a year are directly related to labour abuse. In Sweden, 20% of all suicides are linked annually directly to labour abuse. The number of workers in the EU who experience torture at work or job abuse annually is over 12 million, a large number and a pretty high percentage of 8%. Because of that and all of what I've said to a large number of us who are dealing with this area really expected this law and thought that this law is the solution to sanctioning this problem, but when we look at how the law is written, then we can really say that we're afraid that the law is a shot in the hole. Mobing is a very perfidious and specific phenomenon and is hard to prove in court. In addition, all court proceedings take too long. What's scariest, which is the biggest loss for society is that the victim is always at a loss. She expects a court dispute to bring relief to herself and to improve her reputation among friends at work, colleagues, but in the end, the victim has always lost. This trial, however it ends, does not bring relief to the victim. So I ask you to adopt our amendments that have gone in the direction of detailing certain things in the law that have remained quite vague. For example, it is imprecise when you write in Article 4 paragraph 1 that “the employer is obliged that in order to create the conditions necessary for a healthy and safe working environment... “ Simply, what is a healthy and safe working environment? Each of us imagines it differently. I ask you to explain this matter a little bit, so that whoever is supposed to apply this law would have perfectly clear things ahead of him. In addition, it seems to me that such a written law can lead to courts being buried in work lawsuits and, in this way, with an excess of restrictive interpretation, workers being unable to be protected. I hope you know that this is how the written law comes across a number of Union employers' comments, as well as trade unions and courts. I like to keep the accounts clean, and to support what I say, it says: “The Union of Employers advised businesses to prepare for the moment when the law comes into force, because they could be exposed to abuses and pay fines ranging from 200,000 to 800,000, not counting the costs of a court dispute. In the Union, they fear employers might be in a position to defend themselves against the accusations of the unemployed, which would thus protect their position. “ Natasha Zavodja, director of the Legal Affairs and Social Dialogue Service, provides an example of a situation where three workers can agree and accuse the employer of mobilising one of them and two of them to appear as witnesses. Companies that are in the restructuring process, she warns, it could be expected that many workers appear as witnesses or victims of mobbing, as they will avoid getting fired one year from the procedure, as provided for in the law. The possibility of abuse does not exclude a representative of the Independent Union, Saud Seceragic, who says a part of dissatisfied workers could thus try to exercise their rights. He expects abuses to be avoided if the possibility of intervention is used in the company itself, which is attended by a neutral person accepted by both sides. To be perfectly clear, the DSS welcomes the role you gave the mediator, because this leads to efficiency, speeds up the whole process and delays unnecessary court disputes, which may be avoided in this way. But do you think a mediator can be anyone? My opinion is that not everyone can be and that we come to the issue of education, because it seems to me to be one technique that needs to be learned. We have come to courts, which should play a very important role in sanctioning violent persons, but it seems to me that they are among workers, on the one hand, and employers, on the other hand; that they are in a situation that neither have solid standards nor clear criteria to assess who is right. That's why it seems to me that the legislator has failed to define more precisely, further away from what abuse is, which also makes it difficult for courts to identify themselves and allow them to interpret differently. It also seems to me that not all legal instruments for lawsuits against abusers are exhausted. We can talk about it when we talk about it in detail. I'll just say a few things, when it comes to volunteering law, because my colleague from the DSS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Donka Banovic, will deal with this problem in a clearer and much wider way than I could say in this short time. We also believe that this is a very important law, especially because it is the first time that it regulates an area that has been unregulated by law, but it seems to me here, as with the last problem, that you want to bring our legislation in line with EU legislation without going from the real problem that exists in society and which needs to be covered by the law. Why do I say that? I can't believe you haven't heard of the Red Cross. Of course, it's groundless to ask such a question, but the Red Cross is a humanitarian organization, at least until the 1990s, when your coalition partners took over the Red Cross and used it in a way that was shameful and scrawny and turned it into its opposite. Let us start by saying that it is in principle a humanitarian organization, which really rests on volunteers, and on volunteers from primary school age, high school age, including those who are eighteen and over. These volunteers were doing a very important job for their community, humanitarian work, and they gained continuity that later, when they are older and more mature, they can also give their community something in the form of free work. Now you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40563	Twenty minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40564	Thank you. I will speak on behalf of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group and I will agree at the very beginning that it is difficult for these two, such a significant law to comment on in a relatively short time, but on the other hand, I am sure that the importance of their adoption is so great that it is important to bring them in as short a time period as possible. I'll start with the labour abuse law. What I'm trying to say is that mobing or abuse at work is actually one phenomenon that violates human dignity. In that sense, the adoption of laws against abuse in the work of aphirmis is one of the basic human values, which is the protection of human dignity. As many colleagues and colleagues have already spoken before me, this term began to be used 20 years ago and its foundation comes from the English word, the verb “mob, ” which means “mob, ” and“ mob, ” meaning mob, crowd, sacred, and even scum in some translations. It is true, too, that Conrad Lorenz, by studying animals, noticed what colleagues were already talking about, which is that animals tend to isolate a weak individual in mass, even until his death. Conrad Lorenc is otherwise recognized in psychological theory as a scientist who has often studied simple forms of learning in animals and has concluded that they can be very often applied in early forms of human learning. What's important for the abuse of work is that it can be vertical and horizontal. What does that mean? This means that abuse can be done by a superior or employer in relation to employees, but that employees can also be objects of abuse or abuse. In fact, 55% of the abuse happens in this vertical direction, but I have to say that 50% of it happens in the direction of the lower, means that the alleged abuse of employees, but in 5%, it can happen, and vice versa, that a group of employees can abuse an presumed one. At the horizontal level, there is 45% abuse, which means that groups of employees or employees abuse each other. I want to repeat something that has been said here many times, but I want to repeat that as a message to those who are abusers, but also to those who have been abused. The abusers are often persons with personality disorders. The abusers are most often less capable, but powerful people, who do not have great personal capacities, neither professional nor human. They have no capacity for closeness, for giving and receiving, for love, for creativity. They often join them in a collective of weaker people, those who themselves fear being abused and by the model of identification with the aggressor, they join and thus strengthen the power of the abuser. They thus conceal their own infirmity in another area of their life, on a personal basis, or on a family plan. I truly believe that in these cases, as in all other cases, when the more powerful abuse the weaker, the more powerful behind power is powerlessness, and behind potency, impotence. What exactly is mobing and what forms of behavior can be meant by mobing? It may be the spread of malicious rumors, social isolation, intimidation, underestimation and demeaning, the constant alteration of instructions for the work that the superior gives to a subordinate, the assimilation of offensive jokes, the giving of too much work, a job that cannot be done by one person within the given deadline, or the opposite, the failure of tasks to a person in the workplace, which then feels that it is completely useless, then shouting, constant criticism, using offensive phrases and expressions, underestimating attitudes and opinions, or mixing in the privacy of a person who is being abused. Then what happens to the person who's abused? It first goes through a phase of shock and anger, but then comes a sense of helplessness, increased sensitivity, loss of self-esteem; often body symptoms occur, such as insomnia or psychosomatic disorders, type of headache. Of course, the tension experienced by the abuser at work is spreading in his family, and it has a significant impact on the stability of family life, but also on the reduction of its productivity in the workplace. How does abuse affect the workplace itself and the company in which it happens? There is, above all, an increase in sickness; then, often there are changes or fluctuations of workers from work to work, which increases the cost of working through training of new workers; often there are injuries at work; of course, decrease in productivity, reduced company reputation, which is all seen in reduced profits and opportunities for development and progress of the company. In Serbia, there is often a mix of concepts of mobbing and abuse at work and some basic disregard for labour legislation by employers, and I want to stress that. In Serbia, mobing or what we call labour abuse has forms such as non-payment of earnings, lack of vacation rights, often non-signing of work contracts, giving out illegally, blackmailing, shagging, forcing workers to work under all kinds of conditions, simply because there is not enough work. I come from the town of Leskovec, where unemployment is very high, and workers are forced to work under all kinds of conditions and accept all kinds of blackmails. Often, they start by signing blank cancellations, giving up all the rights that belong to them under the working legislation; simply, they must act on the principle imposed by the employer, which is the principle – if you do not, I will easily find someone else who will agree to these conditions. I therefore call on all competent institutions to take seriously the control of the application of labour law and respect for labour law in our country. It happened, let's say, that an employer in Leskovac was choosing workers for his textile company to choose younger and nicer, it happened that they worked a huge number of hours, and at 260 to 300 hours a month, and they did not receive adequate compensation, and they were often banned from making a minimum break during work, even going to the toilets being banned. As far as the law itself and the provisions of this law are concerned, I would like to say that by its important feature, I consider that the employer is obliged to inform employees of their rights to prohibit abuse. I think that increases the awareness of all employees that abuse is forbidden and that it is necessary to report it. Then, I believe that the mechanism of intervention will contribute that the situations of abuse that occur do not go through a long, painful process that damages the mental health of employees, but that by intervening these conflicts will overcome. Namely, the urgency of the review is that the employer is obliged to propose the mediator after three days of receipt of the application, and the whole mediation procedure must be completed within eight days. Also, abuse in the workplace is expected to be characterized as a violation of duty and may even lead to the termination of the abuser, which I also consider to be a good solution, but also a preventive measure. I believe that judicial protection is well regulated; I particularly stress the burden of proof, which is on the defendant, because this is one common (in recent times fortunately in Serbia) mechanism which provides for the right of the weaker to protect themselves in court proceedings. Court proceedings also have a character of urgency and temporary measures must be carried out within eight days. The penalties are estimated from 200,000 to 800,000 for the legal person, from 100,000 to 400,000 for the entrepreneur and from 5,000 to 40,000 for the responsible person in the legal person. I believe that these are penalties that can act preventively to prevent this negative phenomenon. The remark I have on the text of the bill is the need to define more precisely the concept of abuse itself, because I believe it is important for more adequate application of the law so that there are no misunderstandings in the application of the law. The story of volunteer law, the law on volunteer work, I'll start with Einstein, and I'll finish with Andric. Namely, Einstein, who gave the world a lot of new knowledge and scientific truths, said: “How much a man is worthy of his community depends in the first place on how much his feelings, thoughts, and actions are directed toward improving the position of other people. “ The volunteer work itself draws its basis from the Bible - based Hebrew word that means — the one who wants to give. According to some Egyptian records, various forms of philanthropy existed 4,000 years before Christ. Now we can say that 6,000 years after the first forms of philanthropy, Serbia brings the first, more recently, law on volunteer work. But this does not mean that Serbia does not know in its tradition various forms of charity and work. I want to say that the important step we have taken on this road and the adoption of the Law on NGOs, which we have not only enabled legitimate work, but also envisioned special benefits for those NGOs and associations of citizens dealing with matters of general social interest. Of course, this law, as well as everyone else, should be passed because of our society, but it is also binding on us to international conventions whose signature and legal follower is Serbia, as well as towards European integrations that oblige us to build a sustainable community that respects the dignity of all people and encourages all citizens to help solve the economic, social, cultural and environmental problems, thus improving their life and prosperity of society in general. Our legal system, as I said, has so far not known volunteering, i.e. voluntary provision of services to another or community without compensation, as a legal category. In addition to controversial examples, so far there have been no specific regulations that govern the voluntary provision of services to another person, without compensation, for the benefit of another person or for the benefit of the general good. The lack of legal regulation poses a serious obstacle to the permanent engagement of volunteers and the development of volunteerism, as volunteering in NGOs can be treated as a covert employment and as such may be subject to criminal and other sanctions. The importance of the volunteering law is seen primarily in the fact that volunteering as a service to another person, voluntarily and without compensation, is recognised in the Republic of Serbia as a legal category. Through the tumultuous historical and other social events in these areas of basic human value, solidarity, community, care, help, they have enabled the individual and the community to overcome wars, revolutions, natural disasters and so on. There was also a reverse process, which is that people often turned to themselves and the ability for them and their family to survive in difficult times, and often we were rudely prepared to forget the needs of other people. In order to encourage the protection and development of volunteer volunteering and social affirmation, the Council of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting a law on volunteering, is doing legal and institutional regulation of volunteering to encourage further building of social cohesion and more evenly deploying the burden of transition. This enables all who want to become volunteers, especially young people, to improve their professional work, show their skills and skills, develop them and acquire new ones. The broader plan by regulating volunteering promotes family, social, national and global solidarity and co-operation. The Universal Declaration of Volunteering stresses that volunteering is one of the basics of civil society, which affirms its essential values: pacifism, freedom, equal opportunities, security, justice, community, solidarity among people. Volunteering, so understood, affirms the rights of man to engage individually and collectively without the expectation of material compensation. It is therefore important to support these ideas, especially among young people, and to adequately regulate this matter. As far as the law itself is concerned, in addition to promoting work of general interest, I believe it is very important that it affirms another principle of non-discrimination. I think it's a good thing that the relationship between volunteers, volunteers and the state is regulated, and I believe it's a good thing that the law regulates the possibility of issuing certificates to volunteers for their volunteer work. I think it would be good to make it possible for other forms of support and through other laws to allow volunteer work to be recognised and socially accepted and affirmed and through some other reliefs that volunteers could receive, for example, in employment as a recommendation, in schooling, etc. However, I think it would be a better solution not to regulate this through certificates, but through, say, a volunteer book, where all the certificates of volunteer work would be found in one place. I think that solution would be simpler and more practical. I believe it would be good if there were records of organizations involved in organising volunteer work, because I think there is a need to introduce order and thus crystallise what NGOs and associations of citizens are dealing with in matters of general social interest. Despite the fact that there have been numerous public dilemmas, I support a solution in Article 12, which implies special protection of vulnerable groups through the fact that some categories of citizens are being prevented from doing volunteer work with vulnerable groups. However, like many others, I ask the question – why can't volunteer work to deal with children under the age of 15? I believe it's a bad solution and I think it's something to change. I don't think the Labour Act is something to be called upon to regulate volunteer work, and I believe that affirmation of volunteer work and helping others at the earliest age is very important for the development of personality, but also for the development of society. I also believe that the administration should be relaxed for short-term, one-time, ad hoc volunteer activities. I think it is quite clear that volunteer work should not be paid, but that perhaps a category of allowance should have been foreseen, especially for foreign volunteers because it is common in European programmes. As I said, I will end up with Andric, who said: “Life only gives us back what we give to others. ” The G17 Plus MP believes that this law gives Serbia, especially young people in Serbia, the basis for the affirmation of a perhaps forgotten, and certainly not a new system of values. It's a system that protects human dignity and develops human solidarity society. It is a system that encourages personal affirmation and youth development through understanding the needs of others and giving others. So we believe that both laws are of great importance to our society and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40565	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must express my satisfaction that the minister has finally arrived. I hope that he will not, like some previous ones, understand this discussion so that he needs to read the reasoning that we have already received under the law, which he did at the beginning, and then eventually read another sentence which he failed to read in the first act. The performances and speeches of the ruling coalition were quite interesting, inspired, but I must say they have absolutely nothing to do with the law. I hope you've read this law and you'll be in the mood to essentially discuss what's in the law. We've heard all kinds of stories. You've given yourself the right, I'm talking about the ones who used to say, that you take off three of the same lists that apply to the mobing, that you convince us here five times what the definition of mobbing means, that it's a term that's tied to the mob, that it refers to animals and whatever other nonsense that absolutely has nothing to do with the law. It would be good if Mrs. Chairman had responded, too, to warn MPs that this law is not adopted for animals, but for people and not brought for the European Union, but for Serbia. This time you follow the same system, and the frog sees the horses bitching, and she lifts her foot up. Some have even dared to harden – you know, not only for Serbia, but it happens even in developed capitalist countries in the West. Of course not, it is exactly what is characteristic of these developed capitalist countries in the West, and what slowly, with many more negative things, finds fertile soil in Serbia in the last ten years. Some have completely missed the subject of this law. I'm just going to point out the example of a colleague, one of the previous speakers, who was talking about hiring younger and better-looking workers. Excuse me, what does this have to do with this law? There's absolutely nothing. It is, gentlemen dear, discrimination, it is not abuse in the workplace. So it's obvious that some have missed the topic. You've read to us a few times statistics from the European Union. And what was interesting, and what several speakers repeated, is that the paper in the law is a process of mediation, or mediation. How is it, gentlemen, the paper, if this is the first time we've passed a law like this? Maybe there's someone we haven't heard of, who hasn't been published. This is the way Mr. Gašo Knezevic introduced the work. He acted according to future laws. I don't know if you're doing anything like this when you're talking about this, but it's clear that this is the first time you've passed a law like this and that any newspaper can't be talked about. When you're trying to justify the passing of this law, that is, this law... In order for there to be no doubt, I'll say that this is the law we need, but we need a good law, not the law you suggested. In particular, I will point out to you a large number of provisions that are problematic and that will lead to this law in practice not being able to be implemented, i.e. a large number of problems will be produced. You say - we talked to representatives of social partners, respected professors of law school, NGOs, etc. Let's hear what the professors of law school are, let's see who the professor is and what law school is ready to get up and say -- here, this is the bill behind which I stand. There's so much nonsense here, there's so many expressions that aren't legal. So you need to know that whoever passed the law school, who graduated from law school, and not who's a professor at law school, knows how certain things are defined. I've read this law carefully, and I'm sure you've been lost in many places in translation. You've translated beautifully from English, you've done it literally, and then in that process, you've lost any meaning. At least you read some of the laws that are normally passed, so you know what is the usual legal terminology in Serbian legislation. You didn't do it. But I hope you will at least have enough political wisdom, strength and will to fulfill what you said, and you said you would look to accept as many amendments as possible. All amendments submitted by the SRS Group were essential. With some amendments, we stylefully edit these provisions, not changing the essence, and absolutely no one with a good will can say that the greatest number of our amendments cannot and should not be accepted. I'm not going to give concrete examples of mobbing, because I really think it's something that's completely pointless. It's like we're passing a criminal code, so we're giving examples of murders. We are aware that there are examples of abuse at work, but it is our primary task to discuss the law itself, the essence of the law and the effects that certain provisions will have. I'll go slow. Here, Article 1 states the provision of Article 2 which states: “All the terms used in this law in the male race include the same concepts in the female family. ” This is totally scandalous. I don't know what this means. Does this mean that in other laws the provisions given in the male race are not meant for the provisions of the female race? Of course it's meant to be, but what is meant by law is not written. That's exactly why it's meant to be. How are you going to say something, and you're writing it in the law? In this way you send a message that in all the following laws in the first article we will have a provision that will say one general sentence – all the terms, all the names written in the male race also refer to the female. You cannot, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, achieve gender equality by raping a language. What you're doing is just raping your tongue. We can then make a huge amount of these completely unnecessary provisions that are meant to be put into all future laws, make them wider, but thus end their accuracy. This is another EU requirement. Similar nonsense happens there. You're intruding everything that's wrong here as soon as possible so we'll be the first to be in these things. The European Union has made a directive prohibiting the use of the word "madas" and "ma'am" because they are not politically correct, thus making a new speech. That's how you destroy and rape Serbian. There's really no need for that kind of thing. There's a number of nouns that just can't be in malehood, and they don't exist. Look what our famous linguists say about it. So: judge, academic, biologist, etc. You can't say a biologist, you can't say a carrier, you can't say a fisherman, you can't say a fighter, and you can't say anything stupid. It's not a Serbian language. It does not mean that you help or encourage gender equality, for you can call someone a hundred times a fighter or a fisherman, but therefore its essential position in society will not change. In Article 4, you say that the employer is obliged to provide to the greatest extent a healthy and safe working environment and to organise it in this way. It's a term that's not good. We suggested that part of the sentence be deleted. Why? Because it doesn't mean anything. Who is it that will assess whether the employer organized the work to the greatest extent possible to prevent abuse at work? Whenever you give expressions that leave the possibility of arbitrary interpretation in practice, as a consequence you will get different ways of treating employers, but also different ways of treating judges. Different treatment in the same cases is not good. You won't lose anything if you delete this remark. As far as the definition of abuse is concerned, it says that it is any active or passive behaviour towards an employee or a group of employees of a repetitive employer, who is intended or represents a violation of dignity, reputation, personal and professional integrity, health, position of employee and who causes fear or creates an hostile, humiliating or offensive environment. Some immediately recognized the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this. Be assured that you too will be on the other side, because when we look at the way sessions are held in certain moments, the way ministers and those who are here are treated by the MPs, then you will see that there is a tendency here to abuse opposition representatives by representatives of the ruling coalition. Article 8 is something that is also very problematic here. Several members (i.e. Article 8, Article 10, Article 11) speak of liability and burden of proof. I must tell you, we have proposed to amend Article 8 because here you say – the employer is obliged to protect the employee from abuse. You cannot prescribe an absolute obligation on the employer to protect someone because it is impossible to implement... So no one can provide you with absolute protection. In order to prove to you that I'm right, I ask the question: when you were discussing the police, when you were discussing the military, why didn't you say - the police are required to protect, the police are obliged to prevent every crime? Because it's impossible. The police are obliged to protect, not protect, and the police are obliged to fight to prevent crimes, but is not obliged to prevent every crime. You are thus turning that absolute responsibility into a burden on the employer's shoulders, which simply won't be able to deal with this. It is similar in the next member, it is said that the employer is responsible for the damage the responsible person or employee commits by committing abuse to another employer, in accordance with the law. Our proposal is for the employer to be responsible for the damage caused by the responsible person or employee after the initiation of the infringement proceedings within the meaning of Article 13 of this Act. How can you ask the employer to answer for everything, or even for what's going on, without him knowing, or having had a chance in any way to find out? You ignore the fact that abuse in most cases is a relationship between two people, two individuals. It's different if you prove that a company's policy is systematically endangering and oppressing workers. It's something else, then. Then you can introduce responsibility for all cases of abuse, but you can't introduce someone... Imagine companies of five, of ten, fifteen thousand people where one employee abuses another, and the employer knows nothing about it. You're introducing the full responsibility of the employer. It's interesting there's another comparison with the police. The police have every possible measure of coercion they can carry out, the employer doesn't have it. The police have different powers, which the employer doesn't. You don't ask the police to prevent every crime and you don't commit it to prevent every crime. How can you commit an employer and will employers do anything other than run around the company and ask every ten minutes if everything is okay and if someone is abusing someone? Even if they did, and then there were cases of abuse, the employer would be responsible again. Therefore, the scope of the employer's responsibility is too wide, in practice this law will lead to a number of problems. You will have to put the Assembly of Amendments and Law Supplements on the agenda in a short time. I think it's better if you try to look at it and listen to some of our remarks and make that law work. In Article 11, you are re-resuming that the employee refrains from acts of abuse. It's something that's already been prescribed by Article 5, and you can't ask for that. In Article 10(2), you say that employees have the right to protect their employers. It's in sync with this previous remark. If we do not commit the employer, and we must not commit him, to absolute protection, therefore, the employer is obliged to protect, and the employees cannot seek and demand protection, but may ask the employer to seek protection. That's what's the point and it won't change your meaning and the essence of the law. See, for example, another complete illogicality: in Article 12, you say – an employee who finds out about the behavior that he rightly believes is abuse has the right to initiate a protection against abuse. We asked for the amendment to be "right" instead of "right", which means nothing, to impose a commitment and to say: "Employee who finds out about the behaviour he rightly believes to represent abuse is obliged to initiate the procedure. “ Even if someone finds out, he has no obligation to initiate the procedure, which can’t be addressed from civilization, legal, or from any moral point of view, and especially if the state really wants to deal with every type of abuse in society, including abuse in the workplace as one segment. It is problematic in the same sense as in Article 13(2), where it says that a request to initiate an infringement procedure can be submitted by a union representative, a person responsible for safety and health at work, a work representative, etc., but with the consent of an employee who considers himself exposed to abuse. We asked that part to be deleted. Imagine you prescribing a criminal trial for attempted murder, but with the consent of the one against whom the attempted murder was committed. If it is understood, and we have heard about the fact that abuse involves often and psychological abuse, that it implies the fear of one who suffers from this abuse, how can you seek his consent to initiate a procedure to prevent abuse? It's simply not logical, gentlemen, and you'll have to admit it. If I see someone in the National Assembly bullying and harassing tomorrow, I suppose it is my duty to report it, and I suppose it is the obligation of the authority to initiate this procedure further, rather than to tell the one who suffers abuse, do you agree? Of course, in a large number of cases, they will not agree and that this will allow for continued abuse. The question arises: Will the employer have the right or obligation to fire a non-reporting employee, or to take action against an employee who knew about the abuse, and did not want to report it? Given how far you have extended your responsibility elsewhere, I think such a provision should be introduced. It's a really large number of remarks; unfortunately, I have about a minute left and I'm going to try to see what's most important right now. Here, to stay on Article 31 where you say – if during the proceedings the prosecutor made it likely that abuse was committed, the burden of proving that there was no behavior that represented the abuse was on the employer. Only The Hague tribunal transfers the burden of proof to the defendant and only in the Hague tribunal must it prove its innocence! Nowhere right, it's one of the basic postulates, I'm going back to respected professors of law school... One of the first things I learned in law school is that you can never prove a negative fact. You're here asking that someone accused of abuse, or employer, prove that something didn't happen. There's always a burden of proof on whoever claims something happened. The burden of proof can never be on the defendant. There's no proof of innocence. This is an extremely important part. In Article 33... (President: 20 minutes. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40567	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40568	Thank you, Vice President. The colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, are before us two laws that Serbia did not have, which it should have. Unfortunately, both LDP MPs have serious objections. When it comes to the law on preventing abuse at work or the law on mobbing, we think it is unspoken, that it is not a precisely defined concept of abuse and that an opportunity to pass a good law as Serbia deserves. More of this will be discussed by my colleagues in the time foreseen for the debate of the parliamentary group. When it comes to volunteering law, we think this law, as it is written, will not contribute to the development of a culture of volunteering. Why? It is essential to note that this law did not separate long-term volunteering or the right volunteering from ad hoc volunteering. So it can't be the same. Unfortunately, the law prescribes many norms when it comes to volunteering and what it says about both long-term and short-term volunteering and norms, unfortunately, also refer to short-term volunteering. The government is talking about the guillotine of regulations, about removing all unnecessary regulations that prevent the development of free initiative, interventions, etc. in this volunteering law, it prescribes very precise and strict what all organisations that organise volunteer work should do: to keep records, to conclude contracts with volunteers, to issue certificates on their request, to deliver all of this to the Ministry, etc. It's all about ad hoc volunteering. If it concerns long-term volunteering, it's not disputed, that such a record should exist, that there must be a contract because of the potential consequences that may arise when volunteering, but for ad hoc volunteering, which you don't know for what reason you put into this bill... I remind you, you know better than that, there was no plan. For what reason, the short-term volunteering was put in, and then all this stuff was pushed on him, I don't get it. So this law will not contribute to the development of a culture of volunteering, and it should contribute. On the other hand, it increases the transaction costs of those who would like to organise some volunteer short-term, ad hoc work, such as cleaning one part of the coast or some abandoned green area next to a school, etc. With everything you've predicted for the essential volunteers, you've also committed that organization. Somehow, it seems to us that this law treats volunteering more as part of a working process. No wonder you combined those two points, that you added volunteering to preventing abuse at work, which is a law of labour law. They are also in charge of volunteering labour inspection, and in essence volunteering is primarily private-legal work. You know, there are a lot of organizations in this country, associations of citizens, people who are active in these associations. They're basically volunteers. Take, for example, fishermen who are gathered in a fishing organization and go to clean up a river or a lake; all this paperwork you prescribe now they have to fill out. It's just that you missed the spirit of that law. Among other things, some UN conventions and the Council of Europe encourage countries to allow volunteering to develop, that branch of human activity to the aphirmic. After all, people get some habits, realize that working for free is important and important for one society, but this law, unfortunately, did not adopt those recommendations of international volunteering conventions, and most of all because of this remark. So it's a fundamental remark, that you've put in ad hoc volunteering and attributed everything else to it, and that in Article 11, it seems to us, you're trying to eliminate volunteering at primary school. We don't see why it's done. Kids need to learn that volunteering culture first of all when they're little. It's quite enough for parents to give consent. Let's imagine a school where the school's leadership decides to clean up some neighboring yard or green area, so that until it's put in place it could be used for children, and that all of this has to be filled out, to issue certificates, and that you in the Ministry are recording that it's been done. Indeed, we urge you to drop that short-term volunteering. In other countries, for example in Croatia, ad hoc volunteering is not in the law of volunteering. When it comes to insurance, possibly something that can happen in such actions, one day, for example. To clear the coast, the green area, whether it's done by some association of citizens or companies with their employees, such actions are essentially covered by the Law on Public Meetings. Therefore, if someone gets hurt, the organizer is responsible, but according to the other law. Making deals, issuing certificates, delivering to the minister everything, when it comes to ad hoc volunteering, it really doesn't make sense. You know volunteering is popular in Europe. Every year, Greece organizes volunteers from all over Europe to go to clean up some desert islands of their own, since they have many uninhabited islands. That's real volunteering, that's not ad hoc volunteering. They pay both the cost and the food, etc. Of course there's supposed to be contracts, but for this one-day, half-day insertion... Excuse me, Mrs. Lakicevic, Article 2 clearly states that the provisions of this law apply to both volunteering. We suggest that it be released in the short term and that the regulations governing the responsibility of the public gathering organizers be applied accordingly. The second observation is that in Article 11, you are trying to eliminate, or Article 11, the consequence of the elimination of volunteering in primary schools. That's why we urge you to consider these remarks. You should also consult with NGOs, associations of citizens with whom this is a close matter. I really don't understand why it takes so much paperwork and that every volunteer action in your office, Mr. Minister, is being taken care of, that statistics are being made, etc. Other countries do it on a sample basis. In the UK, for example, not every volunteer action across the UK is registered there, but simply by some poll they determine. I'm not saying we don't need the data, but this is exactly how to regulate this paperwork, at a time when we're trying to get rid of excess regulations, it doesn't seem logical. That's why I say the law is necessary, but this is a big flaw, like the Mobbing Act has some flaws. If you would agree to fix the law together, we would be willing to vote and we would be happy that the government respects the reasonable attitudes of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40569	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is by Mr Mirko Chikiriz, authorised representative of the ZES Group of Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40570	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, may be the most important fact regarding the draft law on volunteering and the draft law on preventing abuse at work the fact that for this legal void that has not been regulated so far by these laws we have first passed laws in our practice. As regards the draft law on volunteering, of course, some other laws have in some way touched on these actions, which consisted primarily of professional training to carry out a traineeship and to pass a judicial examination, particularly with lawyers, doctors, judges, etc. However, any relationship in which someone provides, provides services or works, and in return gets property benefits or, as with the volunteering law, does not expect the acquisition of property benefit for the provided work or service, is in fact a bond-law relationship that requires it to be specially governed by certain legal regulations. The fact is that during the course of volunteering, there may be work injury or failure to provide adequate equipment for volunteers or to create safe conditions for volunteer work, and often a volunteer in the course of his volunteer work (which, I say, is primarily voluntary) may cause damage to the organiser of volunteering. Thus, the need to regulate all of this by this law was imposed. Mr. Minister and his associates have also spoken in the text of the law in explanation and in the oral presentation of a lot of good things about the law on volunteering, I think and Mr. People's MPs, and it seems to me that these two laws with the least policy and this has been observed today in discussions. It seems to me, of course, that it will remain until the end of the debate on these two laws, because the minister and his cabinet have expressed their willingness to accept any useful amendments to the opposition. As for the draft law on preventing labour abuse, when Mr. Minister with his cabinet was last in this high house, we from the list "For European Serbia" pointed out that it is necessary that this law enters the assembly procedure as soon as possible, precisely because of what happens to employees, to people who are exposed, here are the statistics really bad, everyday mobbing at work. The way employees are being abused... What interests us from the list "For Europe's Serbia" is not only to increase employment, which is, of course, one of the basic goals that we are seeking, but also to improve the position of employees and that in times of transition, since we are a society that is going through a serious transition, with all the good and bad consequences, we stop treating the employee as a being that has no dignity, humanity, spiritual need, as someone who is in a semi-slave position. If you were to conduct a serious study or survey of employees today, it seems to me that the results you would have obtained, provided that there was a fully open statement of employees, would be even more devastating compared to the statistical indicators that today were placed in the National Assembly, primarily because of the fact that both in some organisations and some employers who once had maltene inconceivable that there was a mobing... Or were they people who worked in privileged places, first of all I think of the employees of financial organisations and banks, etc. If you look into that area, you'll see that employees are exposed to large abuses by employers, a large mobing. You today almost don't have a bank in Serbia where employees, and sometimes it was different, don't work on Saturdays, often on Sundays, their working hours are not respected; means, if the official working hours are up to 15.00, 16.00 or 17.00 hours, be assured that the overtime is not paid, but is not the basis I wanted to talk about. In fact, the question is, what is mobing and how is mobbing, that is, abuse at work, and what are the groups of workers and employees most often victims of abuse? First of all, research shows that the most frequent victims of abuse are honest workers, young, just employed workers, those in front of retirement, peaceful, retired workers, employees who are afraid of becoming themselves victims of mobbing or not losing their jobs, workers who are silent and suffering, those who seek more independence, better working conditions, those with lower professional training, etc. The ways of abuse of employees are indeed numerous. Many respected colleagues have cited a number of ways in which abuse is committed, including some who are the most critical. It is, for example, an effect on the job – no matter what the employee does, it is presented to him that it is not good, the person of the employee is belittled, it is made known to him that he should be happy that he is in the way that we are suffering him, and he is often under the influence of the employee. What is interesting and what we MPs hear every day from employees who suffer abuse at work and what is seen in research done by psychologists and psychiatrists, it is that employees at mobbing do not put money first. They put in the front row the misbehave of their personality and the treatment of people who are less valuable, who don't have their identity, who don't have their own sensitive life, simply as someone who's expendable. Only if research by psychiatrists or psychologists say that today the fear of losing a job is stronger and more pronounced even than the fear of health and fear for life, then it is clear what condition our society is in. Then, the way it's done the mobbing are also a variety of little things, let's say, the employee skips, doesn't call for collective celebrations, birthdays, for breakfast. If, eventually, he's asking the employer for a small favor, then it's being declared and ringing all the bells, as if he's done something scandalous and amazing. There's something very big about the little thing, and what the employee did, which is really good, it's not going to work. Then, isolation – a person leaves himself at work, no one will contact her, many out of fear of becoming victims of mobbing themselves. All this affects physical and mental health, and that, of course, is passed on to the whole family. Research shows that employees who are victims of abuse at work often unconsciously, in despair, since they must not have their dissatisfaction to show up at work or to protect themselves, this dissatisfaction is passed on to the family, and this is how the family is disturbed. If we want our family to become the fundamental foundation of society again, then we must prevent abuse at work. Then, the employee is glued to a series of labels, say, given qualifications that he can't adapt, that he's too sensitive, that he's weird, that he doesn't know people, that he's high, that he's being smart, that he thinks he knows everything, etc. The causes of the mobbing are diverse. Often, employees who have great professional skills, great creativity and a number of new ideas are actually the biggest distractions for those who are bewitched, who reach their positions in the workplace in a different way, above all plots, plantings, gossip, courting those in position above them and unscrupulous gazing those in the position below them. If we look at the position of the employee, what is most important is the terrible consequences of the abuse at work, which are divided into three large groups. These are: mental changes in victims, changes in behavior and changes in health care. As for mental changes in the victims, the most common changes are: depression, anxiety, insomnia, anxiety, or the state of fear, the crisis of pay (many, especially the weak sex, in their impatience, become irritable and very easy to cry), a feeling of depersonalisation (the employee who is the victim of mobbing often thinks that he as a person is not worth another person), panic attack, social isolation, I mentioned, or emotional palpitation, which implies that he often and does not have the will to fight for his status. As for the change in behaviour, besides the state of fear, there is pasivisation, increased consumption of alcohol, cigarettes, medicines (especially tranquilizers) and sexual disorders. As for changes in physical and health plans, there are headaches, sleep disturbances – we hear employees who are victims of abuse at work say they can't sleep or sleep briefly or intermittently, that until the beginning of the mobbing work they didn't have such problems – dizziness, which is usually not known cause because there is no objective indicator, problems with cooking, loss of appetite, increased blood pressure, increased blood sugar levels, heart problems, skin changes etc. As for the abuse of employees, it seems to me that the assessment of the situation of all the parliamentary groups has given in a very similar way. The question is, how is this law going to improve that state? First of all, by providing for mechanisms for the protection of employees. The National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have done their part. It is now up to employees to protect their personality on their own, and in courts to provide adequate legal protection and compensation both material and immaterial damage to victims of abuse. Is the law in that part rigid? In our assessment, it is not, above all, because of the fact that a peaceful procedure is envisaged, which is not mandatory, as well as mediation, or the choice of mediators with the consent of the parties to the dispute, it is a man in whom both sides have trust; it is good because the mediation has been in place in our legal system for the past few years and has produced good results. We believe that in the future, the results of the mediators will be better on this plan, but also in other procedures where mediation is introduced, especially because the process of peace is avoided by long and expensive court processes, the passions are calmed down; in the end, there is a compromise solution that can be equally satisfied or dissatisfied with both sides. Then, in a court procedure, an employee, within the time limits provided for by this law, can obtain judicial protection. Of course, today is the dilemma of whether our employees, in conditions where our society is, will have the courage and the desire to resist the mobbing? Once again, I want to say that the state and the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot do more on this plan than they have done. It also prescribed supervision, as regards administrative inspection, with a labour inspection; it also prescribed temporary measures that the court must take in case a serious breach of physical integrity, i.e. health status, or threatens the death of an employee. She predicted, I think, appropriate fines for an employer who commits abuse at work. Other laws and this law also provide for disciplinary measures for workers who abuse this right, or who are not exposed to abuse at work, and who want to be portrayed in some procedure as victims of labour abuse. It is certain that in the application of this law there will be such situations that some workers, who are objectively not doing their job, will try to abuse this institute. It is primarily in courts, and in proceedings before the employer, to determine whether there is an abuse or not. Once again, I want to say that the list of ZES in the voting day will support both draft laws, we think they're really quality laws. We look forward to the fact that the other parliamentary groups have so actively taken part in the work and preparedness of the minister to accept any amendment that will lead to a law that would be even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40571	Thank you, too. The word has a minister, Mr Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40572	I would like to thank the MPs for a very constructive debate and for the fact that all MP groups have expressed their view that the adoption of both of these laws is necessary. I'm going to short-circuit the three basic remarks that were made here when it comes to the labour abuse law. The first observation is that the law of a declarative character, that leaves room for abuses, the atreca remark that could be heard is that there will be room for abuses of certain provisions of this law. Of course there will be problems in the application of the law and that we are aware of all these remarks and that during the debate on amendments, as I said, we will be ready to accept these amendments that will improve the text of this law. I did not talk here about objections that are absolutely in place, concerning individual members, which Mr Nemanja Sarovic spoke of, but there will be an opportunity to discuss in the coming days. As far as volunteering law is concerned, there are also three basic objections. They were spoken of by Mr Zoran Ostojić and contained the suggestions of other MPs, or parliamentary groups. The first concerns volunteer applications. I just want to say that there may be some misunderstanding and that we weren't sufficiently defined in some solutions. Namely, the obligation to apply exists only when registering, let's say, NGOs, that it also deals with volunteer work. The application is submitted once, when the NGO is registered and never again, and once a year a report on the activities of these organisations involved in volunteer work is submitted. The report is somewhat different, or far less complicated, and requires far less procedure when it comes to short-term volunteering. As for Mr Ostojić's remarks, which are in place, regarding ad hoc volunteering, we will be prepared to specify in Article 3 what you were talking about, there is no such thing as yet. Although volunteering, in the sense of this law, is not considered, then lists seven items, we will add to Article 3 that by volunteering, in terms of this law, is not exactly considered the ad hoc volunteering you were talking about. As for the third remarks that you pointed out, but also other MPs, regarding the conditions of volunteering and that volunteering can perform a person who has at least 15 years of life, our reasons for such a solution were that in the Labour Act, someone mentioned it, a legal minimum for someone to establish a 15-year working relationship, and the conventions of the International Labour Organisation that we ratified also speak of it. The Law on Education regulates extracurricular activities, among other things, volunteer work, which takes place under the supervision of teachers. These were our arguments that led us to introduce this provision on the conditions of volunteering. In any case, as I said, regarding all these remarks that are highlighted here, especially about the application, I agree that there are too many documentation, we will be prepared to discuss it further and accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40573	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On the basis of Article 85, now that this segment of debate is completed in principle, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40574	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Let me inform you that by the end of the joined agenda, we will be working today and after 1800 hours, respecting Rule 85 of our Rules of Procedure. We continue our work according to the schedule of MPs declared for the word in the joint principled search at points 1 and 2. MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Please sign in, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40575	I thank, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, I would like to reiterate once again that the SPS - JS Parliament Club will support in the day of voting the draft law against labour abuse, because, in fact, by supporting this legislative proposal, we want to support the goal which is to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal, which is to prohibit any form of labour abuse and related abuse, i.e. to ensure and create a complete and comprehensive system of protection against abuse. Among other things, it is already said in the opening part and in the first part of today's work day that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 60, found that everyone has the right to respect the dignity of his person on the job, safe and healthy working conditions and the necessary protection at work. It is also true that the Labour Act provides for a kind of protection for employees and persons seeking employment, but it is true that more and more frequent occurrences of this kind of behavior that can be defined as work abuse and in relation to work indicate that we need a special law that will regulate and regulate this extremely important issue. I think only eight European countries have a special law that regulates this extremely important issue and it is good that the need is recognised in Serbia as well. What is essential and what needs to be put on a special accent after the adoption of this legislative proposal is the implementation and implementation of this law, which is certainly the difficult part. In the light of the legislative proposal, among other things, the very precise data of the association, which is dealt with in one relevant way at Serbia's level, has been presented. I don't want to talk about data, but what I want to point out one more time is the basic reason why this negativity in Serbia is happening today, and this is the privatisation process, which is how I would define it, the bad privatisation law. When are the appearances most pronounced? This should be made clear once again – when determining surpluses, to force workers to quit themselves. For example, in companies privatised by a buy-in contract, it is envisaged that there is no dismissal of workers over a period of two or three years, but the alternative to such a provision of the contract is very often, unfortunately, that abuse at work, in order to force employees to quit. So I want to say once again, as a representative of the political option, a political party that will always be on the side of workers, that we really need this law, we need implementation, implementation of this law as soon as possible, but what we also need is one serious control of all the privatised enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If this is not done, this seems to me, it will not be the only negative phenomenon in the privatisation process in Serbia. What is extremely important and what should be pointed out when it comes to this legislative proposal is that the law will apply and apply to all employers who are defined by the Labour Act, and the employee is considered to be a person who is engaged outside the working relationship, in accordance with the law, which is already said. So the essential goal is that all conflicts are resolved with the employer by means of a mediator within eight days. The intervention process, which is also important, and what should be said, can also be attended by representatives of the union. The employer is obliged to initiate a disciplinary dispute. Otherwise, the case is settled in court in a litigation procedure that has the character of a work dispute. The supervision of the application of the law itself has an administrative inspection in the case of state authorities, the territory of the autonomous province and local self-government, and labour inspection when all other employers are concerned. As for the draft law on volunteering, I would like to say that the SPS - JS Group in principle supports this legislative proposal, because we think it is a good thing that volunteering is finally being introduced into the legal system. With this legislative proposal, volunteering is, once again, defined as a voluntary provision of services for the general good, without compensation. What's important is this definition makes the difference between volunteering as something that is voluntary, free of charge, from the person's working engagement on the basis of a working and working contract outside of a working relationship. Of course we support the Ministry's intensities to solve the problem of working on black, in the sense that employers generally report falsely as volunteers. On the other hand, we believe that the work of honest and true volunteer organisations should be facilitated in a certain way. It seems to me that the contractual procedure is a little complicated and that we must not allow it in a certain way to reject or discourage potential volunteers, and the new potential costs will be an additional problem and I think I can, in a certain way, already said, make it difficult for volunteer organisations to work. The procedure needs to be encouraged, the procedure needs to be protected, and it cannot be discouraged. Finally, the SPS - JS parliamentary club in principle supports this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40576	Thank you. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40577	My colleague, Milica Vojic-Markovic, has already mentioned that mobbing cannot be tied to a country in transition, nor that it is a Serbian institution, because workers are at risk around the world. The most endangered are in Britain, the Netherlands, Finland, followed by Sweden, France and Ireland. Most of the new EU members are in Lithuania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. More than half of the employees in long-term mobbing correspond with patience while searching for a new job. The cancellation would be 28%, and 12% of employees would report the employer. In Germany, thousands of suicides are connected annually to mobbing, and in Sweden as much as 20% of the total number of suicides. A study conducted in Belgrade of 135 subjects (65 men and 70 women), in the April-May 2007 period, showed that mobing is being conducted in all areas of work and among all levels of employees. Interestingly, men are exposed exclusively to a vertical mobbing that is conducted by executives over their subordinates, while women are equally exposed to both vertical and horizontal mobbing. Mobingu is equally exposed to both younger and older men, with a higher or lower working time, regardless of education, marital status. Among women, vertical mobbing is exposed to women who are younger, without qualifications, unmarried and with more than ten years of employment. Only horizontal mobbing are mainly exposed to younger women with a middle degree of expertise, slightly more unmarried, with a working internship longer than ten years. In men, the most common forms of mobbing are: dealing with jobs, giving too many jobs, inadequate communication, criticism of work, excessive control, and in women: gossip, lack of communication, isolation, criticism of work, inadequate communication. As an authorised representative of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have already pointed out that mobbing in Serbia is growing into a national problem, which will not be solved by realizing that, besides all other problems, it cannot be a priority to pass such a law. It is a priority and the adoption of such a law, a special one, and a clear social action that would have to provide adequate information to all potential victims of mobbing about what it appears to be, what they can do, except to be silent and patient and how to deal with those who are more socially covered and more powerful. To all those who are skeptical about the need to adequately inform citizens, I recommend that they read the comments on the Internet in which people cite drastic examples of abuse, and they are not at all sure whether what they are experiencing can qualify as harassment. For example, “I have the next case at work. Our school employees are being followed by the lodger, by the orders of the director, and he writes down who's late for class, who leaves a dirty classroom and something like that. So, this box is the most important person in school, and of course it's the director's information that's wrong. Recently, he almost beat up a cleaning lady, an older woman in front of a pension. Is that a mobing? “ For six years, I work as a teacher at school, but only after two years did I become aware of the pressures of a teaching school on me. I'm not just her victim. Some colleagues left school because they couldn't handle it. Two years, since she's set the schedule, I've had an inhuman schedule. On the side of what I do in two schools, two shifts, two classes. On Fridays, I sit all day at school, both shifts, for six hours. Since I'm working in the suburbs, it's not worth it, and I wouldn't be able to make it home and get back to work on the transport. “ Is it also abuse when it comes to employment? In fact, as a doctor without a job, I had enough time to get to know the Health Care Act, which points to the Labour Law, and the Labour Act says that the director, in my case of a health institution, does not have to make the procedure of establishing a working relationship more transparent. So, without competition and without criteria, anyone can be employed, and in my case, with an average of 9.09 and a medical school completed within the deadline, there is no place for me in native Leskovec or Belgrade. The directors of the House of Health and the General Hospital of Leskovac employ without criteria, on a party basis and with compensation, which is a public secret, without talking about the doctor's traineeship always being done voluntarily. “ Several of these comments mention the need to produce a special TV show with concrete information, advice on how to counter mobbing and discrimination, as well as concrete protection proposals, including court. A good proposal for the Public Service, and everything within this slogan "Your right to know everything". Mobing is definitely beginning with the fear of the mob, and it is being maintained because of the fear of victims and other employees, with certain bosses being raped to engage and professional weavers whose goal is to reduce the number of employees. "This world is a dangerous place, not because of those who do evil, but because of those who watch and do nothing," Albert Einstein said once. Therefore, it should be noted that the adoption of a special law aimed at preventing labour abuse is necessary, but it is also true that such a formalised law has many weak spots, with the possibility of frequent abuses both by newly-compromised bosses and by well-known and scarved, unfortunately, workers. In this bill, it has not gone further than determining the most abstract concept of labour abuse, nor has it entered into the descriptions of specific individual forms that labour abuse can have in everyday relationships in the working environment. If we look at the Labour Law, we will see that it already identifies a particular form of abuse at work, which distinguishes sexual harassment and abuse. In this proposal, there is no word in particular about physical and psychological abuse, which would be necessary if it is to provide as precise a definition of abuse as possible, or if it is to be specified that abuse leaves consequences both for the mental and physical health of the victim. In addition, such a precise definition is contained in the new French law, which is in some way also a model of the law on the prohibition of abuse. Secondly, when it comes to the benefits of the law, it is clear that there is a expressed need to provide as much protection from abuse as possible in all categories of employees. However, in the draft law, the Benefiers Circle relates to the jurisdiction of certain laws governing the field of work, i.e. employment, and adds that the provisions of this law apply to employers, as well as to employees and other persons engaged outside of working relationships, in accordance with the law governing work, the law governing the rights and obligations of civil servants, deputies and law governing the rights and obligations of employees of territorial autonomy units and local self-government. It is a circle of benefits protected by this law, and it is our opinion that this round and how it must be extended would include persons in a working relationship with the employer, any, as well as persons who perform temporary and occasional jobs or work under a contract of work or other contract, persons on supplementary work, persons looking for work, students and students in practice, persons on vocational training and training with the employer without the establishment of a working relationship, volunteers and any other person who participates in the work of the employer. Also, this bill stipulates that active legitimacy remains the right to file a lawsuit, the right to legal protection, but only to the one who is a victim of mobbing. Where are all those others who could appear as applicants, like those who demand protection, primarily representative unions, NGOs, professional associations? In the context of the need to provide as full protection as possible to all categories of employees through a more precise definition of abusers, the possibility of the employer being the victim of abuse by an individual or a group of employees must also be included in the legal solution, which is neglected by this proposal. Many of the Union's objections to employers and 114 companies have also been ignored, and it was quite expected that in the adoption of such a sensitive legal solution, Serbian employers, who employ thousands of workers, are publicly consulted and respected. It is obvious that the opposition MPs are not against the adoption of such a law. What we are against is the way, the absence of legal public debates and the hasty formulation of some legal norms which, due to inaccuracy, will be a good rationalization for many abuses and manipulations. How can we believe this government's sincere intentions to prevent the abuse of work when it has not prevented five million Serbs from being abused by the false promises of Baron Junior Minhauzen? Who will really prevent the abuse of creative workers when this government creates nothing but a crisis? How can we believe that the work experience of employees will be respected when many executives get their first job right in the government and without any previous work experience? There is a record of a return to Broz’s time because the best students are in power, continuing the politics of “the greatest son of all nations and peoples. ” No wonder we apologize to all peoples and peoples, and our own remains stamped, deposed and globally abused in all segments. Active legitimacy of the phenomenon of political similarity has been restored, so it is really a question of how this law will apply to politically similar workers, who will gain all legal rights to eliminate politically inadequate employers, for example. Generally, the abuse of work rests on the fear of losing a job, and that fear is based on a clear experience of the absence of choice. If this government and the legislator of this law really think they are preventing abuse, they must first cease to act as abusers, taking into account the clearly expressed dissatisfaction of the people, who are seeking new elections – both in political and life terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40578	National MP Miljan Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40579	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly fascinated by the ability of our distinguished colleague to distort the facts in this way, to combine incompatibly. I don't understand what these two laws have to do with fairy tales of whether he or this director of this or that are hiring, or not hiring; and I don't understand how anyone can talk about mobbing or volunteering without working there. It would be the same as if I were to comment now on what the people of Chačka are saying in the bar and in the cafes about the way some other directors rule. I think this debate is neither the time nor the place to comment on it that way. I really think that these two laws must be taken very seriously because they are very important to our society, above all for modernising our society. Anyone who volunteered can indeed confirm that volunteers through their actions can see those local problems that are often invisible to the authorities, can respond to these challenges of their local environments and can help improve the lives of those people whose very problems make life very difficult for the invisible authorities. I am particularly pleased to be able to talk from this place about volunteering and the very proposal for a law on volunteering, because if I hadn't been a volunteer myself and thus gained a lot of knowledge and experience, I suppose I wouldn't be in this room today. In the period behind us, volunteering was left to itself. We understand volunteering in a very outdated way, and it is high time to regulate this area by law, because the positive consequences of adopting this law will certainly be of immense importance to the future of our society. I repeat, the importance of volunteering for our society is enormous. There's a whole bunch of areas that would be much poorer if volunteering didn't exist, from helping older fellow citizens, sick, all the way to the University, which would certainly not have been so successfully organized and would not have been such a sacred example for our country that young and motivated people didn't want to help with all this. Those, dear colleagues, were volunteers. The social importance of volunteering is reflected in the fact that volunteers actually promote the basic value of their society. Helping someone with no interest, with pure moral satisfaction, do something good for their community and change things for the better, all of them are values for which we have to fight, all of these are the values for which we have to adopt this law. I believe that the adoption of this law is in fact the arrangement of that starting area in every young man's life. There are projects that bring volunteers together from different parts of our country. In this way these young people, and even a little older, meet the other ends of our country and thus make friends. I am convinced that at some point every friendship will turn into one solidarity of the region of Serbia. In the final instance, it certainly means that our country will be more stable in some future period, if we have the solidarity of our regions. Up to ten years ago in Serbia, a foolish policy was conducted, which had planfully emptyed small places. The consequences of this policy are felt today, because in many small towns across Serbia, younger people cannot even get a chance to gain work experience. I am convinced that adopting this law will ensure conditions for people to gain those work experience, because it will help them when they are looking for a job and, hopefully, when they get a job. For local problems, they are certainly the best local solutions. Volunteers have shown themselves able to respond to the challenges of their local environments. When I say that, I mean taking part in making the embankments when they're flooded, to collecting blood. There is no success in such actions without volunteering. That's what people have been doing, but, I repeat, it's never been arranged in our country before. By adopting this law, we are introducing order into that segment of our society that is important, especially when it comes to critical situations. The law clearly defines what is and what is not volunteering. Until today, neither the rights nor obligations of the organizers of volunteering nor of the volunteers themselves were known. After all, most importantly, volunteering users themselves did not know their rights and obligations. We didn't know who our volunteers were and we didn't know what they were and how much they were doing, but the volunteers themselves had no way of capitalizing that good side of their personality. We simply didn't have a written clue; or we had some written leads that sometimes, in some job talks, they didn't take seriously, or there were abuses. Speaking of abuses, I am very pleased with the proposed provisions in this law that regulate the way this law is implemented and, on the other hand, I am very clearly proposing measures to punish all those who do not respect this law. We need to get used to European values, and volunteering certainly is. Young by definition, and in practice, those most volunteering and most willing to volunteer and spend their time in favor of all of us. This law allows young people from 15 years of age to participate. I know that an amendment has been submitted to propose that this border be further brought down, so that we can influence the formation of young people while they are still in primary school to become responsible citizens, to become solid citizens. I just heard the minister's explanation why it was so suggested. In part, I can agree with that, but perhaps we can find some solution to make it possible in this law for NGOs and various associations to engage young people who are under the age of 15. When football is a football game, handball or basketball, sports clubs are those associations, they put up their young, flying men, to collect balls, if nothing else. There are still a number of such examples that have been touched somewhere by a regulation and some law, but I think it might be good to mention it in this law. Finally, I believe that by adopting this law, we help the organizer of volunteering, volunteers themselves, and, most importantly, to provide the safety of volunteering users. What we will gain as a society by adopting this law is certainly of immense importance to our society. When I say that, I mean these young generations who will have a more developed sense of responsibility and solidarity because of this law. I hope you agree that all associations of citizens and all NGOs who have fought their silent struggles in this unregulated segment of our society for years to improve the quality of life of some social groups or our society and all of us together. If we have such an important area that is left to ourselves and if we don't modernise our understanding of volunteering, then we are not responsible for our future together. I am sure that the adoption of this bill will help young people to gain a lot of knowledge and experience through volunteer work that will make them responsible, solidarity and ultimately bring them to this room if they wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40580	There's no basis for replication. There really isn't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40581	Article 104 has been injured. This is an example of horizontal and vertical mobbing: Mr. Rangelovic has done horizontally, and you, Madam Chairman, are doing vertical work, because the man has completely misunderstood me, along with saying that I am a master to connect incompatible. Maybe that's true, but the example I cited was just an illustration of the problem that really exists. I believe that Mr. Rangelovic, who is from Timočka Krajina and I from Belgrade, because they are now in the use of new technology, we have the possibility, let's say, on the Internet to find out what is going on in Leskovac, and in Cačka etc. Not only that, while we are at it and even regional development, it would be good to ask a question, a team before Minister Ljajic is present, what happened and whether it is an example of mobbing what happened in Prepolje. Milan Gačević and Nebojsa Minić, representatives of the DSS-NS Group were brutally beaten at the SO Prepolje session yesterday. By order of Jusuf Muskic, president of SO Prepolje, in front of 60 council members and in direct TV transmission, the group beat up in black-dressed young men, without any markings or identifications, which Muskic hired as supposed congregation security. Now listen to why they were beaten up. Councilors Gačević and Minić were beaten because they asked for material from the SO Prepolje session to be written with Cyrillic. Instead of fulfilling this constitutional and legal obligation, President SO Prepolje took the floor, told the committee a measure of distance from the session, and then ordered the brutal use of the physical force. Anyone who wants to write with Cyrillic, which is still in official use in Serbia, will get beat up, even if he is a councilman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40582	Time. In fact, the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure has been abused. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40583	Thank you for your word, I'm going to be very brief. I understood very well what an esteemed colleague had read and just now. This just confirms, once again you have confirmed exactly what I said – you are a master to spin, to connect incompatible. If that's the way we're gonna talk, you didn't even mention anything about what I mentioned about Chuck. Of course the Internet exists, and of course I'm from Timoica Krajina, eastern Serbia, and of course I know all that, but I repeat again, these are charm stories. Once again, it is not right for us to participate in this debate in this way. I hope to finish this debate of ours now. I'm saying, you're a master of spinning and connecting incompatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40584	Mrs. Natasa Micic has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40585	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to note that the debate on the draft law on preventing the abuse of work is a unique example of the active and zealous participation of the parliamentary majority, which would be commendable if you had not previously voted to join the debate with the matter concerning the regulation of volunteering in this country. I don't think there's any need for anyone here to convince us how much it takes and important to prevent abuse, that we're all aware of that. It is much more important to deal with the way and the causes that result. It is clear to everyone that this law is necessary, that a wide range of people who have been abused in this country are in their jobs. According to some data, about every other person is exposed to abuse. What's interesting is that molested can be anyone. They can also be young workers at the start of their careers, they can be those who are before retirement, they can be those who are successful and valuable and prevent them from making progress, and they can also be both employees and employers. I think it is not good to discuss this law only in terms of creating an atmosphere against employers, especially against private employers, because in this country, employees who work in state enterprises are being abused. Among the reasons why there is abuse at work is certainly this frustration of our society with our immediate past, then, a long-standing tradition followed by the fear of losing a job, but also a new kind of abuse that was introduced to a small door thanks to the introduction of a party state, so there is a political mobing in this country. But I think it's important, since abuse is just one kind of violence, you'll agree, that we understand that violence in this country has a structural character, it's general. So it's clear to all of us that both in the family and in schools, in the streets, in the means of transport, at every step of the way is present. Structural violence means (that's why it increases and induces) that the state does not have adequate answers to the worst kind of violence that has been committed in this country. For the worst crimes we have so many guilty and accused, and even convicted, who are at large. Furthermore, by dealing with violence, it should be said that the root of that word is the root of that word — the power. Given that the Constitution was forced into force in this country, the mandates were seized, the NIS sold by force, and many other important acts were forced into force in this country, then we cannot expect that one issue can now be resolved selectively without respecting these general social opportunities and circumstances. Since there is no single MP here, regardless of which political party, which does not support preventing abuse, I think the Ministry of Labour actually had an easy task. The task of the Ministry of Labour was merely to clearly define what these acts of abuse are, who are subject to abuse and the procedure itself. What's the good side of the law is that one two-phase procedure is envisaged. This provision of intermediaries is, of course, good and important; there is no need to bury courts if it can first be done within one company, but it is a very vague procedure for setting up the mediator himself, as well as its determination, its education. I even think it's a very short deadline for application, since companies have 60 days to apply this law. Given that this is one summer month, July, I am afraid that this law in that part, which has good sides, will have difficulty applying. What's very bad is that you have completely left out the definition of the abuse action, and so I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. So this abuse can be physical, psychological, and sexual harassment. I've defined it correctly, I've described these actions and I hope, if you want to fix that law and if you want to improve the efficiency of law enforcement, you'll accept that amendment. The second amendment I have submitted concerns the definition of the entities themselves, since not all persons covered by this law, but some other MPs have also talked about it. So there are also persons who do temporary and occasional jobs, then members of the army, students and students in practice, persons on professional training and training with employers, volunteers and any other person who participates in the work of the employer on any basis. I believe that, in order to make these subjects more clearly defined, you should accept this amendment. The LDP parliamentary group cannot vote for this law unless you accept these changes that will improve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40586	Thank you. National MP Tijana Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40587	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, we have before us today a draft law on volunteering. The importance of volunteer activities is multiple for both the state and society in general and for volunteers themselves. By volunteering, they exchange experiences, acquire knowledge, develop concern for others, and this leads to a more solid and humane society. However, the importance of adopting a volunteer law is seen primarily by introducing this law into the legal system the concept of volunteering as a voluntary provision of services to a particular person or services for general benefit, without compensation. This is very important because our current legislation did not know the concept of volunteering in this sense. The adoption of the Voluntary Law will provide legal protection for volunteers as well as for the protection of users of their services. In fact, this law stipulates primarily that volunteering can perform a person who is at least 15 years old, and those under 18 can only do so with the written consent of parents or guardians. This bill very precisely defines the rights of volunteers, one of which is very important, and this is the right to obtain from the organizers of volunteering a certificate of done volunteering, which is of great importance for the students of the university who consistently apply the Bologna Declaration, and to enroll them in the following year they are asked for a number of hours of community service. Volunteer also has the right to be insured in certain cases where his life and body are at risk. Then, he has the right to protect the privacy of his data, the right to be familiar with all the details of services and activities he will perform and the right to terminate the contract with the organizer at any time, without any explanation, unless it causes irreparable damage to a person. When it comes to the protection of users of volunteering, in case of socially sensitive groups, such as children, old, disabled persons or persons with disabilities, volunteering in these cases does not have the right to perform those persons who are deprived of their full or partial business abilities and parental rights, then persons who are legally convicted of crimes against life, body, sexual freedom, marriage, family, etc. What is the paper in relation to the practice so far is the organiser's obligation to, above all, register its organisation as a volunteer in the competent ministry, then to submit an annual work report and, most importantly, keep a record of volunteering. The volunteering record includes a description of the complete volunteering programme, its duration, training that volunteers have received, their personal data, user data and the number of volunteers who participated. Last year, we witnessed a huge interest in participation in the organisation of the University held in Belgrade. Tens of thousands of young people have applied, passed training and contributed to this event. They have gained new experiences, but they have also shown what they have learned. Several thousand volunteers participated in the organisation of the Eurovision, Belgrade Marathon, the Adriatic League final tournament, and 300 participated in the organisation of yesterday's Serbia Open tennis tournament. Given that Serbia is expected to organise similar and perhaps more demanding manifestations in the future, I believe that official volunteer records in Serbia are needed. It is also very important to note that there is a significant economic gain observed in countries with developed volunteering tradition that volunteers give to national, regional or local economies. Millions of citizens across Europe participate in volunteer activities every day. For example, in the UK, 23,000,000 volunteers each year, producing some 180,000 full - time workers. The estimated economic gain from official volunteering in the UK is 60 billion euros annually. However, what is more important than all that I have stated is the need for the idea and awareness of the positive sides of volunteering to live in Serbia. The Universal Declaration of Volunteerism states that volunteering is one of the basics of a civil society that affirms pacifism, equality, freedom, equality, solidarity. Unfortunately, among our citizens today there are a number of people looking at the motives of young volunteers and volunteers. It is true that volunteering brings certain benefits and that a number of young people begin volunteering from utilitarian initiatives. However, I am convinced that after some time spent in solving socially important problems, helping marginalised groups and similar situations, there is a rise in the level of awareness among young people on these important issues. Volunteering, as I have already said, is a voluntary provision of services for the general good or other person without compensation. However, as a longtime volunteer, I am obliged to point out that volunteering also means meeting other people, other cultures, making friends, developing knowledge, skills, working on my own development and awareness. Volunteering means learning, perfecting, joining, helping. Volunteering means being human. Young people do not give their free time, knowledge, skills, invested energy by volunteering to anyone; they invest in themselves, in their organizations, in their communities, in the country as a whole. That investment is worth it sooner or later. That is why I call on you together to spread the idea of volunteerism in Serbia and to support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40588	I thank the MPs, Nikolic. The People's MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40589	Madam President, I join my colleagues who have been protesting in some way because the assembly majority has decided to bring these two laws together in one act. These two laws are completely different. The only resemblance is to come from the same ministry. According to that logic, we could arrange a big session where there will be only one point and ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to deliver everything he has ready for us, so we'll finish it in one day. Like, say, we often do when it comes to agriculture laws. So, I'll talk about the volunteering law. I'm going to thank my colleague who spoke before me, because she said a lot of nice things about what volunteering is, why volunteering is very important for every community and for our community, so I'm not going to talk about it, I think we all agree here, I'm going to focus on the very text of the bill. Our legal system until the moment this bill is passed does not know volunteering as a voluntary provision of services for the general good or for the benefit of another person without compensation or, let me say, without financial benefit, so that it may be said that those who believe there should be such a law, this law is significant because volunteering is being introduced into our legal system and there is a clear difference in the employment of a person based on a contract of work or work outside of work. When it is pointed out in the reasoning of the law that the law is needed to distinguish volunteering from some other forms of work or work engagement, it automatically indicates that we have a problem because we mix up various types of work and that there is also work on black, that there is abuse under volunteering. Very often, we can read and know that volunteers or "good people" very often use employers to do some of their jobs, and that it is not volunteering, or volunteering, but working on black. As my colleagues used to say before me, volunteering contributes to the development of a more human and equal society, and it has economic significance. I hope no one here seriously thinks that just by passing this law, it will suddenly strengthen the importance of volunteering and make it clear to everyone how important volunteering is for one community. What scares me is that this is going to remain a dead letter on paper. We will put that notion into our legal system, however... As a colleague mentioned, there are 23,000,000 registered volunteers or volunteers in the UK, and the UK has no law on volunteering. I was lucky to be at the University of Edinburgh, and that's where I found out that students at that university have a volunteer organization that's three hundred-four years old. So they don't have the law, but they have such a developed tradition. In our Law on Higher Education, there is a member who talks about it and practically opened the door to colleges so that they could start with volunteering, where students would be encouraged to perform some volunteering activities, and they would benefit; I stress, not financial benefits, but benefits, because their work would be appreciated in such a way that it would be fought when the exam was assessed, etc. I know a little college is using it, that they didn't recognize that possibility either; the students probably recognized it, but I guess they couldn't handle it. So some consider this law to be very important. I suppose the government also finds the law significant, but if you think it's that important, then the bill could have been better. The remarks the DSS makes on the proposal of this text will group into several continents. Otherwise, we've filed about 30-35 amendments, so when we talk in detail about this law, then we'll talk about these amendments. For example, my first shock, to say, when reading this law, is related to Article 3, where the proposing says that by volunteering, in the sense of this law, he does not consider doing the business of the Red Cross of Serbia, which is related to achieving the objectives and tasks in accordance with the law and other regulations. This sounds amazing to me. Perhaps the billmaker had something in mind, which is not visible from this article. To say that volunteers involved in Red Cross actions, that their work is not voluntary, or not volunteering, is simply amazing. I don't know if you know it, but let's just say last year, so in 2009, there were 60,000 occasional volunteers and 10,000 regular volunteers in the Red Cross. What are these volunteers who participate in Red Cross actions? Are these black workers, illegals, who have been seen for fines by a criminal judge? Now we're going to have a law on volunteering, where people who volunteer in the Red Cross aren't volunteers or that these activities aren't volunteering. I don't know if my fellow MPs have arrived to take a look, but we have received a report on the work of the Red Cross on 7 April 2010; otherwise, they regularly report to us each year about their activities for the previous period, we received this report a month ago. They list all the activities they had, but say that among the activities in the last year, the most significant was to provide adequate legal regulation as the basis for the Red Cross activities. "Significant efforts have been made to define the role of the Red Cross organisation in the... “ so they list the laws where their role is properly defined, I’m talking about last year, so there’s the Transfusion Act, and there’s the Law on Public Health, the Traffic Safety, the Emergency and Civil Protection Act, and that’s one of the newest laws, and it’s still in their report: “... and the Red Cross of Serbia is adequately represented in the draft law on volunteering. “ I read the 2009 Red Cross report to you. I don't know what kind of law they read. I know there were a few drafts and work versions. You've made quite clear from, say, the first working version that was, but the people who work in the Red Cross are in error, they're not treated properly by this law. I'm still going to talk about Article 3. You also state that volunteering in this law is not considered to provide services or activities that are common in family, friendly or neighbourly relations. I also understand what the billmaker was going to say. I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think there's a law or regulation that will clearly define what they're friendly, what they're neighborly relationships, what they're not. If, for example, my son goes to the store three times a week and to an older neighbor (who doesn't even have to be from the same building, can be from the next building) buys groceries at the store and takes it to her because that person can't do it, is it illegal activity or does it belong to neighborly relations? Otherwise, there are some members here who are so out of line and, as the kids would say, make no mistake. You don't need this point at all, especially because these friendly relationships are developing in this work, so if a volunteer works with volunteering users for a long time, of course, friendly relations will develop. If they live in close proximity, then it can be brought under neighbourly relations, so I think this point is completely unnecessary. What also concerns is Chapter Five, where you have a volunteering agreement, and then Article 18 which speaks about what the volunteering agreement includes, and here it says: the name and last name of the volunteer, the place of his residence, or the place of residence, and some more information that the contract should contain. What worries is, someone here said there's gonna be a volunteer record... A lot of people like to participate in various projects, and that's their private thing, they don't like to be in any kind of records. But I understand why he wants a volunteering contract and why it's important, but the question is, who will and how will have that database and who will have access? I suppose it's the Ministry, but you can't see it from the bill. All of this needs to be done very carefully, given that we have passed a very important law, which is the Data Protection Act. A grudge against Article 11, where the conditions for volunteering are, there are only two attitudes; the first attitude says – volunteering can perform a person who is at least 15 years old. In other words, he can't perform a face less than 15 years old. This is understandable at first reading, but I don't think you've thought enough about this, because that's how you absolutely rule out the primary school population. I'm talking about early working with people, or children, and I'm guessing the goal of this law is to popularize volunteering, volunteering. We can't ban children from taking part in some voluntary action as volunteers. Ever since the world and centuries of it has been and it's mostly been expressed... We called it a peer education, where usually an excellent student would volunteer at school to organize classes for his friends. I'm talking about it. It's absolutely about education. We've given you, you'll look at the amendment, a very useful amendment in this sense, where we've given very precise conditions where students of elementary schools or under 15 can participate and in what activities, we've given the exact... We're aware of how difficult this is, but you can't have any activity until you're 15, 16, and then expect a child 17 or 18 to understand the meaning of all this. You need to talk about it a little early and put it into practice. The same article: “Faces under 18, ” from 15 to 18,“ can volunteer with written consent... “ We have corrected these amendments, and you have not used the word “parent ” anywhere. In this law there is no word “parent, ” there is only a legal representative or guardian. We tried the amendment to fix the text. When there's a debate in detail, then we'll discuss the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40590	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40591	Thank you. I must express my personal satisfaction that this law is on the agenda, especially that during the previous session, i.e. last session, I noted that it would be important to adopt this law, as it has long been in the assembly procedure. I'm very happy if I have at least 0.1% of the impact on that. Once again, I will quote Albert Einstein and what we have used very often, that “the world is a dangerous place, not because of those who do evil, but because of those who are silent and watchful and do nothing. ” I believe that I personally do not belong to people who are silent and do nothing. We used this quote a lot when we talked about domestic violence. I'm not saying that we solved this problem, but we certainly did remove something that was a private and family environment as a social problem. I think that we have to, we can and we manage to remove it as a social problem, because the story of mobbing in a society and proposing positive legal values is, in fact, the pretentiousness of a society to become more civilized, humane and fairer. It is absolutely certain that the proposal for this law has caused a number of polemics both civil society organisation, the Union of employers and trade unions and citizens themselves. So I would like to give a little suggestion, and I believe that the Ministry's representatives have thought about it, which is that they may in some way define the forms of abuse in the workplace, precisely because of the lack of knowledge, lack of understanding and the possibility of abuse of this law by the unemployed in relation to the workers, because I think that the aim of this law is to protect those people who are worthy, able and fulfil their work obligations. Under the obvious forms of abuse, I primarily mean giving humiliating jobs to a worker outside of his professional training and work experience. From my personal contact with the public, I noticed that public and state-owned enterprises sometimes experience such abuse, and I would like to point out that this problem is not only present in private companies, but also in all organisations. Also, gossip and constant control and criticism, both by management and by colleagues, without grounds and reason, attacks on the health of the employee, transfer to another office or elsewhere without sufficient explanation and enough reason, non-calling for meetings, confiscation of resources for work, empty-table syndrome (I think it was one case of a journalist who spoke to me once, where phone use, the internet was denied, and the same work results were expected from it), also, overcoming obligations. It is because of such things and because of the non-interference with the Anti-discrimination Act, those provisions that define the labour relationship law or work, that I think some things should be defined a little more concretely. Also, my humble suggestion is that a mediator or a mediator, I believe you'll arrange it with some sublegal acts, should have certain skills and certain qualities. As I think you'll probably one day pass a sublegal act that will define working with people who have suffered years of abuse, for the simple reason that these people lose their confidence over time and make more mistakes and thus may lose certain working skills because they are not given adequate conditions. In any case, I think it's a good idea to introduce a mediator, that it's a good thing to initiate an emergency procedure because working disputes in court know it's been going on for years. It is also good that the case does not go out of date for half a year, because sometimes people need a lot of courage to decide to report abuse. It is sad that all statistics indicate that women who suffer more abuse in the workplace, and that they are young people between the ages of 20 and 30, as well as those between the ages of 40 and 50. In any case, I think Serbia is giving another signal that it is becoming a more humane and civilized society and that Serbia is in need of such a law. I believe, as with all the other laws I've been saying, that this law should not be something where we're going to do politicization, but something that we're going to support and try to do better together, because it's only after adoption that we have a huge job to do. I believe that there is work for both the Ministry and for us MPs to introduce citizens to legal opportunities, encourage them to use them and help them wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40592	Thank you. MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would say, on behalf of the SNS, of course, that we too are in favour of preventing abuse at work, and I think that there are really no MPs in this assembly room who could say something against this law. However, what we recognize as a problem, when it comes to this law, is that this, in our view, is just an illusion of labour rights, of workers themselves, of a kind of throwing dust into the eyes of workers and employees, because, in parallel with this law on the agenda, there must be a Labour Act, possibly amending and supplementing the Labour Act. Without amendments to the Labour Act, I believe the effects of this law will be very modest. I'll try to give a few arguments in a brief presentation to support this claim. Before that I would say that even as the law comes very late, that the fact that privatisation is already near the end, that the transition is also moving away, if this can be called a transition at all, it will be more likely that this is one collapse of the overall transition with us, that in the process of privatization and, in any case, the mobbing and abuse of workers, that people without enough capital were buying firms, that after that, there were squabbling employees and that thousands of people had to leave their jobs without any severance, unprotected, left by this state, from this and from previous governments, to the mercy of employers. Therefore, what is fundamental in the transition process and that is to be fulfilled, it is that those jobs that are being abolished in state-owned enterprises, in the social sector, are being poured into the private sector. We, unfortunately, haven't come to that. We, unfortunately, today do not have an increased number of jobs in the private sector, and that is the basic reason why today and those who have a job and those who are jobless in fear of losing that same job. So I'd just like to remind the public that in the previous year, we've lost, according to the Bureau of Statistics, about 13,000 jobs and that about 130,000 jobs have gone into the corporate sector. So, first of all, the enterprise was private, not the state, sector in the previous period, losing jobs and running out of work. It's the best picture of the state of our economy today. This also shows that what you have given in the light of this law is that you have a greater number of cases of mobbing or abuse in the state than in the private sector, a very problematic claim. I would say that the situation is very different, that it is, on the contrary, a lot more people who have been abused in the private sector, but out of fear of losing that job, they simply don't report those cases. The state of the labour market is catastrophic. In the past year, we have had the fact that people who receive the least earnings lose jobs, that people in the processing industry lose jobs, and that the number of jobs with good income is increasing. Salaries of 65,000 and higher in the previous year have increased, and the number of people who had lower incomes has dropped. What does this law mean for those people who didn't even get paid in the last year? There's 70,000 of them. What can they expect from this law? What does he mean to them? He's a dead letter to them on paper. Are these people being abused? Is the fact that they haven't received salaries for a year a certain torture? I'm sure of it. How will this law handle it? Only by amending the Labour Act, by taking greater care of employees can we get into a situation where people who have low incomes are not in a position not to get paid these 76,000 people who did not receive salaries in the previous year are protected by this society. In addition, I'd give you information that you have about 10,000 people who paid up to 9,000 dinars in the previous year. Are these people in a situation that they can live in a normal way, to secure their existence, let alone their families, I don't think there's any need to speak. As for those who have paid up to 15,000 dinars, they are 20,000, and those up to 20,000 have 46,000. When you look at how many people with such low incomes you realize that the problem of work, working relationships, labour rights is much more serious than this law that should prevent some abuse, that abuse and how present, that fear of losing a job is present, so if you will, and in this room where we are Members of the people, and that I do not speak when you go a little wider. I'd like to say a few more data, which is why it's impossible to apply this kind of labour market, this government's carelessness about the number of employees of this law. In January of the month, you had 21,000 more registered on the employment office's record, so by 21,000 the number of unemployed was increased; in February 15,000, I have no data for April. Since the beginning of this year, we have close to 50,000 people on record at the Employment Service. These people agree to any job. These people are not selective and, unfortunately, often agree to both bullying and mobing, which is and how present in our midst. While I'm talking about the Labour Act, I think you're workers and all employees and how you've been deceived by bringing and on several occasions by changing through amendments and additions to the Labour Act, when you claim to be liberal, because that means we attract foreign investment. As for foreign investments, there were never fewer: in 2009 only 1,300,000, some 300 million from the Fiat. The catastrophic level of foreign investment is less than three or four times what our economy needs. In 2009, the situation was no better, 1,800,000. When you went back years ago, just because we were selling some strategic important companies, we succeeded, and we represented it as foreign direct investment, to create an illusion that anything was seriously invested in our country. Also, a low profit tax rate as an excuse did not help increase the number of jobs in foreign investment. It is therefore necessary to change the Labour Act urgently, which is too liberal, which is on the part of employers rather than workers. It is necessary to define what you have not defined since you came to power in 2000, to tell Serbian citizens what kind of capitalism we want, what kind of capitalism we are going to – whether it is capitalism that involves major social differences, whether it involves corruption, crime, everything that is happening to us today; or whether it is this neoliberal capitalism, as they often call it, where profit, interest and greed are basic motives; or whether it is some kind of social capitalism which, in the opinion of the SNS, is much more appropriate and the history of our people and some future needs; and to what extent Serbian citizens may, in the coming period, count on to be more moral and ethics when it comes to the relationship of employees and employers. So, in the next period, it is necessary to enable a normal development of the economy, but also of society itself, and this normal development will have to mean a combination of morality, ethics and economy. If we succeed in providing society with that, we'll have a perspective in some future period. Otherwise, this law will mean nothing either. I am fully aware that not only defines the Labour Act, but I think the Labour Act is a very important link in everything that happened to us in the previous period. What's also important to say is that we MPs, people who are in politics, who we think ourselves politicians need first and foremost to be honest with ourselves, to be more honest with ourselves, to look at our political opponents, to see what's been going on since 2000, how many people, if we're already talking about abuse, were left out of work because they were members of other political parties, how many people today suffer a variety of chicaning because they are members of one or other political options at all levels, from a republican, at a local level, and even a country level. If I were to show through one example what it looks like today in Serbia: look at the reform of the judiciary, what the reform of the judiciary has done, how we deal with the former judges through this reform, how much disrespect, I would say, first of all, professionally, but also with counterfeits, a good part of these people has been found inadequate for these jobs. Let's put that aside. Maybe it's not abuse. The abuse of executive authority, the abuse of this government against all employees is a message that arises from it, and the message is to those in education, and to those in health care, and to those in the police and the military: see what we did in the judiciary, we can do to you tomorrow. Don't play, don't complain, be content with what you have. It's a kind of coercion, a fear that the executive government carries out towards all employees, primarily in the area of the state administration, because it's in a situation where it can solve it. Today we need to be much more honest with ourselves, much more open to ourselves if we really want to make a serious move in working legislation. When it comes to us politicians, we must first and foremost abolish various political monopolies, we must make this assembly a home in which both opposition MPs and government deputies have the same rights. And it's some kind of abuse. The abuse by the executive is if by month, two, three we don't get answers to parliamentary questions. This prevents us from doing our duty normally. It is necessary for anything in this country to change, to start from the executive authority, to start from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40594	Thank you. The MP, Mrs Dušanka Plecevic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40595	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in this united debate, I will talk about the draft law on volunteering. Volunteering, as an area of private organisation of citizens or individuals for the good of the community or individual, without any cash compensation or any other compensation, is not regulated by law. Before, there was a kind of volunteering that was, in its essence, not in the right sense, but rather a form of training in a professional sense, which individuals themselves financed. All we can think of is volunteer specializations in health care. Since then, there have been various initiatives by some organisations to legally resolve volunteer status, and in this sense on the international Volunteer Day of December 5th, various promotions of volunteering and providing the best conditions for volunteering have been carried out. There is no doubt that the benefits of volunteering for all: for the state, the local community, various organizations, as well as individuals. First of all, it is an opportunity for a volunteer to gain new experience from the area that is subject to volunteering, to perfect knowledge and skills if volunteering is related to the profession he deals with, to exchange experiences, to meet the country where he volunteers, its culture, social order, citizens etc. Volunteering is especially useful in the social sphere. To do a little means a lot to those who need help. To prove humanity through volunteering means to help those who in no way can make up for it. In developed countries volunteering is legally regulated. This bill is an attempt to regulate this area in our legal system. The proposal for this law shows that the proposer, under the term "voluntary" mainly meant voluntary work, without compensation to the volunteer and without obtaining profits for the organizer in the area of social assistance. That is exactly what the law suggests; the term "general good" is mentioned in a controversial manner, mainly in the definition, while members of the law speak exclusively of voluntary and unpaid work in the social sphere. The association to this kind of volunteering is unequivocally imposed. Help provided to anyone, any individual of society, certainly represents a general good. Probably in countries with developed volunteering tradition, as you stated in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the point of volunteering is precisely in the work with the social omen. It also includes voluntary work without compensation in the recovery of natural disasters, disasters such as floods, earthquakes, fires and the like. However, this is only one type of volunteer activity. In Serbia, 350 non-profit organisations work for their volunteer jobs, so-called Activists. Here, of course, I don't mean political parties, union organisations, or the Red Cross, as you have stated in the law, which I find quite unclear why not volunteering in the Red Cross. It's the so-called. NGOs, which, in the form of general good, develop democracy, develop civil society, various civil initiatives, protect humanitarian rights, various forums for this or that, by their selective approach, favouring certain target groups, do great damage to all others, because they directly violate the principle of discrimination. I therefore believe that their activities must be carried out in the future in accordance with this law and that they must make volunteer contracts with their activists. So we'll know who he's working for, who's a volunteer, who's an organizer, who's a user, who's possibly being hurt. They must also respect the principles of this law in their work, must be consistent with all citizens of Serbia and must not act outside the scope of their registration, so, in accordance with this law, they must also be reregistered, since so far there has been no law on volunteering. The bill is unsettled when it comes to short-term volunteering and does not offer adequate solutions. For example, in Article 2(3), you say that the provisions of this law apply to short- and long-term volunteering, but in the same article you gave a definition of long-term volunteering, but not a definition of short-term volunteering. Since volunteering is an area of private organisation of citizens, ad hoc organization for day or even shorter emergency actions, e.g. floods, fires, earthquakes or other disasters, it is not clear who would be the organizer of volunteer action, since in such cases people are self-organizing. It is the same case with environmental actions; the actions of residents, for example, cleaning and editing of space in residential buildings or in courtyards. Who would have to form a volunteering program, according to Article 30. Bill of laws, when it comes to the action of several tenants of a building? Would the president of the House Council have to create a volunteering plan, obtain the consent of the Ministry of Labour, form a report and deliver it to the Ministry of Labour by the 30th of March of the current year? Does he have to make a volunteering agreement with the tenants, issue a volunteer certificate on their request, as you wrote in Article 25? A bill of law? For example, in Bor, every spring, there is an action to clean up the Borsko Lake as a private organization, i.e. the self-organization of citizens from the weekend of the settlement around the lake, which represents a significant ecological contribution. The question is, would such actions occur when all these circumstances and conditions of the law are considered? If such actions were to occur, such an approach would increase the costs of volunteering, which would devalue the purpose of volunteering itself as free social benefit activities of general importance. The bill does not have a satisfactory legal framework to regulate volunteer status, does not promote volunteering or encourage these activities. Also, this proposal regulates certain issues as if it were a working relationship, not voluntary activity. In Article 24. you are saying that the volunteer is responsible for the damage caused by the volunteer service or activity to the volunteer, volunteer or third party organizer, in accordance with the labour regulations. Since volunteering activities, despite the best intentions of all participants, can do harm to the participants or third parties themselves, this member should have been given every responsibility. How will a domestic or foreign volunteer compensate for the damage if it is applied to the reputation of the state, and only by applying labour regulations? The bill did not provide for the responsibility of a volunteer for damage caused by a volunteer, a volunteer or a third party. Because of the sensitivity of the problem and the great possibility of misuse of voluntary work, I believe that volunteers must always be available to inspection and judicial authorities. I also think that volunteers, foreigners and volunteers without citizenship, should not be disturbed as far as entering and staying in Serbia. Our party's view is that people under 18 should not be involved in volunteer work because they are in a period of maturation, burning feelings, and variable desires and interests, and so it is possible to abuse these persons, or children. The same applies to persons who are registered forcibles, against whom protection measures against violence have been imposed. The person who has been given the measure of protection against violence cannot be engaged in volunteer work with the persons referred to in Article 12(1), regardless of the period of time that has elapsed from the lawfulness of the decision, given the tendency of these persons to repeat the act of violence. Comments also refer to the negotiation and termination of contracts between organisers and volunteers, where the principle of volunteering must not be violated. Article 20 states: “A volunteer may, at any time, make a donation of a volunteering contract in a manner prescribed for its conclusion, without obligation to state the reason for it, unless the termination would cause irrevocable damage to the organiser of the volunteering, the user of volunteering or a third party.” This attitude coincides with the principle of volunteering in doing volunteer work, since it is private activity. Any volunteer contract can break up, and any other solution would be coercion. The right to association of citizens, including volunteering guaranteed by international declarations and conventions, signed by the Republic of Serbia, should not be so over-normised in certain segments of this law. We have tried to improve that part of the proposal with our amendments, and we have also intervened in the members who are unsaid, so we get a law that can work and be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40596	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miss Jadranka Jovisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40597	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I am very pleased that the draft law on volunteering is before us today. I'll talk about him from the corner of a young man. Young people in Serbia are expected to be the bearers of the new European spirit of change, to take meaningful participation in society, to be well informed and rich in knowledge. However, when you talk to young people, you will conclude that one of their biggest problems is insufficient information about their opportunities, about events and decisions affecting their lives. This debate today, as well as the adoption of this law, will have a positive impact on the free time as well as on the interests of young people. Speaking of young people's interests, we have to say that a certain number of young people took part in exactly volunteer organizations. I use the term "determined number of young people" on purpose because there is no precise information in Serbia on how many people volunteer, how many volunteer programs and how many young people participate in these volunteer programmes. This law will give us answers to these questions, so how many volunteers are in Serbia, how many volunteer programs there are and how many percent of the total number of volunteers are made up of young people. I find this question very important because in the future, we have a large number of major projects waiting for us, such as, say, the University, and we can't wait for them unprepared. It is important, too, to say that the law will provide legal protection both for volunteers and for those who are the beneficiary of volunteer services from any damage that volunteer activity could do. This is extremely important, especially when we know that the basic problem that makes young people decide not to volunteer is the fear of abuse and manipulation. Also, different types of debates have been conducted that concern exactly the problems of the administration. The question that was most often asked is whether this law, which should affirm volunteering, is the administrative obligations prescribed by the volunteer organizer, is doing exactly the opposite. I wouldn't agree with that. Although I believe that in this kind of organization too much administration is always a problem, in this case I think it is very important to keep a record of volunteering. I think it's very important to have precise information about the number of volunteers, the number of volunteers themselves, about how much time they spent on volunteering, or how much time they gave to volunteering. In that sense, I think it is very important for volunteers to own volunteer books in which data on where, when and how much a certain person has volunteered. This is also important for young people who study in universities who apply the Bologna Declaration to the end, because in such universities community service carries a number of points that can help students to take exams. Finally, I must mention that the MPs of the Democratic Party in the Assembly received over 500 young people from all over Serbia, high school students and talked to them. No matter whether they were from Novi Sad or Bujanovac, everyone was extremely interested in participating in social life, mostly through various volunteer organizations. We've had students from Lebanon for the past week. They were extremely interested in this law. I am extremely pleased and very glad that I will be able to cheer them up and contribute with my voice that they, not only students and students, but all those who want to volunteer, feel safer and make it easier to join volunteering in different organizations. What I'd like to say is that I think that all of us here in the hall are aware of how significant this question is not just for young people, but for all of us who want to volunteer. I hope we have more than 126 votes in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40598	Thank you. Mrs. Miroslav Peica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40599	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister and other representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen fellow MPs, in this united debate on two laws that are necessary for Serbia, I would like to dedicate my presentation today to the law on preventing labour abuse. Unfortunately, all research conducted in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the countries of our environment, suggests that the trend of abuse is on the rise. The causes of these negative phenomena can be found in the difficult economic situation, the inability of corporate leadership to implement an internal policy aimed at combating abuse within the framework of their organisations, as well as the lack of legal regulations in this area. I will remind myself that abuse at work is considered any form of conduct that humiliates, discriminates, degrades, or in any way deny respect for dignity and value of any individual or group of employees. Abuse is also considered to be a negative, intrusive, and violent behavior for the purpose of discrediting another person. On our occasions, abuse in the workplace is most often carried out in the form of unfounded criticism of employees at the workplace when performing a job, and in the background of each of these proceedings is avoiding fair evaluation, and thus rewarding workers. We all often encounter examples that indicate that the situation in this area is alarming. All of these examples indicate that abuse is present in all kinds, starting with the lowest forms of entrepreneurial activities, through health institutions, to institutions and enterprises whose founder is local self-government and state. As examples are numerous, as are the ways in which the abuse of workers is conducted, I think the only way that leads to the establishment of order rests in the adoption of legislative regulations and their implementation. Unfortunately, many examples of labor abuse, which were brought here today, were either direct or indirect. I would like to talk about another way of indirect abuse, which is an institution of trial work, which often represents exploitation, deception and abuse of workers, which produces an indirect abuse at work. Under the pretext of probation, some employers employ workers, explaining that they have to check whether employees meet the criteria set for certain jobs. They spend several months without adequate earnings and without contributions to PIO. Here we can recognize the problems of the gray economy, as well as the lack of respect for the Labour Act, which, in addition to the negative phenomena and the consequences of the state, also represents a kind of abuse in the work through indirect means. I believe that this very bill of law that lies before us creates all the preconditions for an institutional fight against this form of abuse. It covers preventive measures which are notified from the day of entry into the workplace of an individual of the prohibition of any form of violence and endangerment of life, i.e. the health of employees, through procedures that each undertaking must implement in order to be able to apply its internal strategy to combat unwanted occurrences. I consider this bill to be a satisfactory way of defining criminal provisions for the perpetrators to be found under his attack. Law enforcement will allow individual rights to be exercised by any employee who at a certain point feels like a victim. The rights are viewed in the possibility of workers to carry out a job protection procedure in the event of the inconvenience provided for by law, without resulting in any consequences. So far, unfortunately, the practice has shown that our legislation was missing in terms of the protection of employees, and many workers who for these reasons started disputes against employers were very often, better said in most cases, jobless. Also, this law provides for a way to improve working conditions in the future by any organisation, i.e. the company, within its policy frameworks to prevent abuse in the workplace. In order for this policy to be effective and effective, it must consist of three continents, as it is otherwise practiced in EU countries, in a legislation defined by precise regulation. Finally, I can say that I sincerely hope that the institutions responsible for implementing this law, with the support of organisations, businesses and institutions, will make a full contribution to the maximum reduction of unwanted occurrences in jobs. A serious approach to combating abuse in the workplace will certainly help reduce social tensions, resulting in a quality relationship between workers - employers. All this will affect more company productivity, i.e. better institutions' roles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40600	Thank you. Vice President Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40601	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is about twenty minutes to seventeen hours, and we've been discussing two draft laws for all this time. It seems to me that there were no MPs who denied the need to pass a law on volunteering, as well as a law on preventing abuse at work. So, all of us MPs, all of us who have been discussing so far, and so have I, have agreed that these laws are necessary and necessary. I'm only going to refer to this volunteering law. In order not to repeat everything that has already been said, I have one serious objection to this law, which is that the work of a large group of Serbian citizens is not regulated by this legal solution. It's also about volunteers. This is the volunteering under which professional training and training is involved in the conduct of the traineeship and the passing of an expert examination, i.e. to perform specialisation in certain professions, such as doctors, lawyers, judges and others. If we agree that volunteering is in fact a violation of free physical or mental work, if we agree that volunteering is an active inclusion of citizens in social processes, and that they have a significant contribution to the economic sphere of local, regional or national economy, then the question is really why have we left out this group of citizens of Serbia? A team before the volunteering, which I have just defined, is being processed in the Labour Act, in the Health Protection Act, in the Social Protection and Social Security Act, etc. Therefore, it is much more rational if one and the other types of volunteering include one law and if, by virtue of that law, one special to all of these laws that I have listed, it solves the problem of volunteers, whether it is a solidarity component or volunteers who give up their mental or physical work for personal improvement, giving results that can be equated with the results that these previous ones give. As for the law on preventing abuse at work, there is also much to be said. I would, however, look back at three components and three shortages of this law. First, I would like to make one vague definition of abuse in Article 6; then, binding that abuse to two concepts, which is repeating that abuse and the goal. So if it comes from this definition that is not quite clear, which is conditioned by two conditions: repetition (one continuity) and goal (there is, therefore, the intention of the abuser), then we have problems with law enforcement. We're going back to one of the old pains of our laws, and that's how we're going to enforce these laws in practice. Article 31 and Article 33 are directly upgraded to this Article 6, because it is, in fact, the judicial application of this law, on the judicial protection of those who have been abused, and judicial protection assumes the burden of proof in court proceedings and provisional measures by these members. It is said that the burden of proof in court proceedings, if during the proceedings the prosecutor made it likely that the abuse of Article 6 of this law was committed, falls on the burden of the person who committed the abuse, or on the employer. I'm asking you, if we don't already have one clear definition of this abuse, which is also related to two specific conditions, at what point will the procedure be made likely by the one who says that the abuse has been abused? Are we in a lawsuit, are we at the first hearing, at the tenth hearing, and then we move on to the burden of proof that falls on the employer? It's a serious question for all those who will ultimately apply this law. So this isn't about one political issue, it's about one practical question, it's about the possibility of applying this law in life, and you'll agree that we all want the law to be applied and that those who are abused are protected in court proceedings. In addition, as regards these temporary measures, I have concerns because Article 33 does not say what kind of temporary measures can be laid down, until when will it last, what kind of temporary measures will it be, are those temporary measures that are in some way referred to in Article 24 - measures to prevent abuse until the end of the procedure, or are they temporary measures provided for by the Law on the Parietal Procedure? There's some misunderstandings again. So if we sum up these three terms, these three components of the law, then they're really uncertain results.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40602	Thank you. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic is not here. Mrs. Snow White Sedlar.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40603	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will refer today to the law on preventing labour abuse. I am personally very pleased with the fact that our country will be the ninth country in Europe to adopt a law on preventing labour abuse. It is necessary to state that this law, by my deep conviction, is a subtle upgrade or crown of labour law relating to the protection of the rights of employees, such as the Labour Act and the other legal acts stemming from that law, as well as other laws dealing with and protecting the rights of persons not employed, such as the Employment and Insurance Act, the Employment Act of Persons with Disabilities, and in some ways those laws dealing with the prevention of discrimination, such as the Law on the Protection of Discrimination. So this bill provides in a very precise way protection of employees from abuse at work. The definition of abuse is very precise in this bill. What's abuse? So the abuse of work is a relatively new form of violation of the right to respect the dignity of a person at work. It's malicious, hostile and unethical behavior towards an employee. In practice, this provision lays the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Statistics show that the number of reported cases of abuse was 216, more than 50% of these cases of labour abuse, according to the 2007 Viktemological Society of Serbia. Also, the association of citizens, or the non-governmental sector dealing with the question of mobbing or abuse at work, or, to be precise, the "Stop Moving" association... During 2008, their statistics show that there are 1,281 reported cases of labour abuse. A bit paradoxical, at first glance, is the fact that a slightly larger number of reported cases of labour abuse in the authorities of the state administration, local autonomy and territorial self-government are compared to the private sector. Therefore, the frequency of reported labour abuses has conditioned the adoption of a special law, which, among other things, is recommended by the European Parliament. In this proposal, the law quite adequately defines the concept of abuse at work, as well as the concept of abusers. It is said that abusers can be: a physical person, i.e. an entrepreneur in the role of an employer, as well as a responsible person in a legal person, as well as any other person employed or organised group of employees. So abuse at work can be horizontal and vertical. It is every active and passive behavior towards a repeat employee and aims to hurt dignity, reputation, both personal and professional, employed person. We are witnesses daily, all of us who have been employed longer or shorter, and I have been employed and in businesses in various jobs and much shorter in the authorities of the state administration, that passive and active acts of mobbing at work are actually always done, but lately it is a little more visible, and that it can be done in various ways. Unfortunately, in the authorities of the state administration, I personally witnessed something called absolutely negative personnel selection, so I have to say, i.e. horizontal abuse by employees in relation to someone who comes full of elan, optimism, objectivity in business, someone who is not prone to corruption, etc. simply finds himself quite isolated. On the other hand, there are various business organizers, managers or responsible persons in a legal person who are not inventive and who do not want, to say the least, to cultivate people who are creative, who are not half-trons; they prefer to have next to them persons who will be condescending and obedient, whether this team or this legal person will have a faster, more efficient and more economic way of doing business. It is also very important that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employer and employees in this proposal of the labour abuse law are established, so that the employer has an obligation to educate the employees, to meet the person who is employed with what is abuse. He also has an obligation to protect employees from abuse. In the process of protection against abuse, we have two stages: the Institute of Mediation or Mediation, which is introduced into an increasingly large segment of phenomenon in our society and in some ways replaces a court procedure that is far slower, more expensive, less efficient and economical. This mediation process shall be concluded either by agreement of the parties, by suspending the proceedings or by declaring one party in the withdrawal dispute. What's important is the urgency of the court's proceedings, so short deadlines. The burden of proof is on the defendant's side. There is a possibility of provisional measures being imposed during the judicial proceedings, which is very important. A very comprehensive public debate was conducted on the draft of the law from August to October 2008, which included representatives of representative trade unions and employers, so representatives of all social parties. Also, these round tables were attended by NGOs dealing with the issue of labour abuse or mobbing, ombudsmans and all other active participants or stakeholders, who were very interested in what the final text of this law would look like. These round tables, as far as I know, were held in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. Most of the suggestions and suggestions that were on those round tables, which were not in the draft law, were accepted. I am personally sorry that the proposals tabled on these round tables have not been incorporated or accepted by the following proposals, which is that the perpetrator of the abuse cannot compete for a certain period of time in the management post. My colleagues from Vojvodina will know, we have a case of one official, I won't mention where it is at work; regardless of what then mobing or abuse at work was not a category that is known as a felony, criminal act, etc., it was convicted by a judicial verdict of what it does, in fact, of abuse at work. The press then publicly said it was a mobing. That person's been in the workplace for two years now. (President: Time. One more sentence. Also, the proposal to apply the law to persons seeking employment has not been accepted, and no proposal has also been accepted that labour inspection, i.e. administrative inspection, has an employee specialist in medical work or psychology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40604	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. There are 12 minutes left for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40605	In the end, I'm going to use the time of the authorized representative. What I would like first of all to point out about the bill on preventing work abuse is what lies in transitional and final provisions. So, if the law, which was delivered in February, it states that the employer is obliged to carry out the obligation under Article 7(1), which is the following obligation: to inform the person who is employed in writing of the prohibition of abuse and rights, the obligations and responsibilities of the employee and the employer in connection with the prohibition of abuse, in accordance with this law, and that he may, in accordance with this law, use his rights and that those who are in working relationship with the date of entry into force of this law, within 60 days of the entry into force of this law... In this rather raving formulation, in fact, there is an inability to exercise the right to abuse at work and mobbing for all those you have already fired under the law on the maximum number of employees in the state administration. All those to whom you have given an assessment of one, without clearly defined criteria, and because of negotiations with the IMF, and you have instructed them that without appeal they must accept such solutions and that in some ordinary legal procedure they exercise their rights, you have ruled out in this law, not by chance at this point in time of such a law that should create an illusion of the right to protection against abuse at work. I've been saying for a long time that this government has been involved in presenting to citizens that the right promised is equal to the right to enjoy some, not privilege, but the normal fluid of human civilization: for example, to be protected from abuse, to have the right to restitution. You have presented the restitution registration as a right to restitution, and it is only about registering the right. The right to free action is based on the story of the right to free action, not the real right to get action, to use the right to action or so. So, this law is also a consistently implemented principle of this government, which talks about citizens' rights mainly in the way of popularising their own desires, intentions and ambitions, and that in reality, hundreds of laws that we boast, adopted by this assembly as a lawmaking machine, many even know not which laws were adopted, or which number was adopted, we do not in practice respect the laws and rights that we are calling upon here and to which we boast. Why do I have the right to say this? The fact that Mr Ljajic read this law without raising his head on paper is not unusual, but it is unusual that at the time of the discussion of the law on the maximum number of employees, we had a debate with Mr. Minister that he had a double number of employees than the one mentioned in the documentation that was then delivered, and we proved it by reading the names of people who were then on the list of employees and who, unfortunately, today, became a class victim of mobbing and getting fired. Typical example of losers, not those transgenders who are against change, but people who have experience, knowledge, professionalism to oppose employers when they get a bad warrant, an illegal warrant, have become victims of reducing the number of employees, not of getting quality professional administration, victims of conditions that we have fewer employees because someone else is asking us to do so, where we presented ourselves as a non-serious state that promised the IMF what it was not willing to meet, and when it came to the release of pregnant women in the Privatisation Agency, mothers with only children, at a time when we advocated the protection of the rights of mothers, infants, children, we talk about birth, family and so forth. I even thought I wasn't discussing this law because I feel a personal injury because my older daughter had to quit her job as a victim of mobbing. She worked 24 hours two days in a row, within a week she achieved a higher percentage of work hours than she worked three at that one job, with electronic records, no witnesses, no attendance, at a state-owned firm. In the choice between health and work, the best college student, an extremely creative being, had to quit his job. They know my colleagues from other parties this case, it's not unknown to them, and I thought I wasn't discussing it. However, if we all keep our mouths shut, and we adopt laws that say that we protect someone from abuse at work, are we hypocritical as MPs, would I be hypocritical as a mother, or would you as legislators? In your ministry, we have typical examples of those who have been fired, who will not be able to achieve this right because it is a member of the 37th transitional and final provisions that is so defined, and we will talk about achieving European standards. They repeat what I stand for – for Europe in Serbia, that we have European laws, not only when we pass them, but when we respect them, that we have a authority that will pass laws that will apply to those for whom they are brought, but also to the authorities themselves, and not to pass laws for the sake of the law and for the agenda on the European path, which in real life almost means nothing to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40606	Thank you. MP Dejan Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40607	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on how important volunteering is to the fact that the European Commission declared 2011 a European Year of Volunteering. How important it is to volunteer I will show you very vividly: imagine a world without volunteers; imagine a broken state of Haiti without volunteers who are building and creating a new state; imagine all these bags, plastic bottles next to rivers that volunteers collect by cleaning up so Serbia; imagine the University without tens of thousands of volunteers who have made it successful; imagine social, health institutions and all those people who without volunteers could not move. I know, it's very hard for me to even imagine. Therefore, taking care of volunteers, protecting volunteers, introducing volunteering into our legal system, I consider it a very important democratic step in our society. Despite the lack of developed awareness of the importance of volunteering in Serbia, you would be amazed at how many NGOs, associations, how many young people in Serbia volunteer in all areas. So, for example, dozens of volunteers from different associations (the NGO "Green Heart", the offices for young people, the Association of Fishermen), and local self-government cleaned Sokobanja from Ozren to Rotj, from Bovan Lake to the source of the Moravica River in the village of Vrelo; they cleaned the whole of Sokobanje without any material benefit for them, but of great importance for Sokobanja municipality, which is the first ecological municipality known as the spa – the green heart of Serbia. Talking to people about this law raised several questions – what is the benefit of volunteering and why would I do something for free? If you've asked yourself or the people around you, that means you haven't volunteered, you've never done volunteering. If it were, you wouldn't have thought of it, because volunteering is solidarity, compassion, tolerance. Volunteering is also a concern for people, animals, the environment, but volunteering and getting new acquaintances, friends, skills, skills, introducing people into social processes, which promotes the development of a more human and equal society. Volunteering is an inner feeling that doesn't have a material price. That is why I will be very happy to engage in the promotion of volunteering as a significant social value, both in Sokobanja and in all of Serbia, both in the field and here in parliament. That's what we do every day. My colleague Jadranka Jovisic talked about it. More than 500 young people who have already shown some kind of activity and interest in volunteering have visited the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thus achieving themselves and some of their potentials, and we want to help them earnestly. In a six-month-long action last year, the United Nations recorded a million and a half volunteer hours. They marked it as the top of a low hill, but it grows daily. In Hungary, Romania, over a million volunteers were recorded. And how many volunteers does Serbia have? We don't know. How many volunteer hours were recorded this year? We don't know. Who cares about volunteers? Under the current laws, no one has to. Is it noted somewhere that Milan Babić from the "Green Heart" in Sokobanja, or Aleksandar Jankovic from the Association of Fishermen or Ivana Radosavljevic from the Youth Office cleaned Sokobanja along and across? It hasn't been recorded anywhere, because it's not necessary today, but it has to be tomorrow. I have a firm view that every volunteer clock has to count. To count, it has to be recorded; to record, there must be volunteer cards. So I strongly support the idea of introducing volunteer cards and recording volunteer hours, so that volunteers can use some future benefits in colleges or in employment. There are certain shortcomings in the current laws. The shortcomings are that the education system does not, in principle, contain elements that encourage volunteering, does not contain either credit points or admission points, is not considered as practice. At the time of admission to the workplace, there is no condition or advantage of volunteering experience. These are shortcomings, but also a very clear idea in which direction we should systematically reform the laws in order to bring volunteering to a much higher level, so that volunteering has a significantly higher social status, and with this law we would not remain undefined; in order to bring volunteering to a much higher level, and to motivate volunteers to have a major action to create a better society, so that we could live better in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40608	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in order not to be unserious, but I must say that this bill on preventing the abuse of work in front of the MPs is another one in a series, let's say, as close as I can to say, funny acts or documents that the government is trying to mock, above all, the Serbian people, the Serbian state, the Serbian Constitution and the applicable Serbian laws, and who knows who else I've listed just a few. Why am I saying this? What I said, I'll try to explain in the next few minutes. Why is one law laughing like this? Because someone suggested we have to bring it or, worse, ordered it. What's the question is whether it was done by perhaps an employer's union or by some major employer, did some kind of association of workers or a standard of the EU take place? Who is the reason for this law? When we go through his analysis, we see that he doesn't contribute to anyone. You will agree that perhaps, according to you, because of this law, they are employers. I will say that because of this law they are workers. Either way, you and I both agree that this law is no good then. What is problematic in this law is the first thing – the Constitution of Serbia. Serbia's constitution says all are equal before the Constitution and the law and that everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Who does this law apply to? To those whom there is least in this country - employees. What about the unemployed? What discrimination does an unemployed person suffer or abuse of life? How long is a doctor's appointment in one hospital? How much blood is spilled to raise money to pay the bill for the phone, for the electricity? How do you even abuse the life of a non-employee Serbian citizen? So discrimination is that one law applies to employees, who have 7% to 10% in this country, so at least 10% to 15% more unemployed. Then we ask whether this law should be in the congregation procedure. I must also mention that in the countries of the region this law has been rejected and put aside, they did not want to accept its adoption because under the term mobing can be understood and fired at work. If you pass this law, will you send a message to everyone that they can't get fired? The question is, who works in this country and who can't get fired? Now I'm going to go back to how many people are employed through party books. How many government offices are there? How many ministries, advisors, working groups? If this law is made for them, to protect them from a future minister, who may not be from their political party, then this law is absolutely pointless. In this law in Article 2, you listed who the law applies to. What's important to you, I suppose, is the obligation of civil servants. Where is the member of the 2nd National MP who is in constant work in the congregation? Let's assume it refers to this preamble that applies to employers and that the MP is an employer of the Assembly, as a legal person. You answer me now, since the minister is not here, I don't even know who would answer me, who will be the mediator between the opposition MPs and the MPs? Or, who will be the middleman if I report abuse or mobing, as you like to say, by Mrs. Comic? Who's going to mediate there? Or who's gonna cheer for me or for her? Someone who will put Mrs. Comic under the influence of the criminal policies of this law, or any other employer. So if we're starting with ordinary examples, from ourselves, we have to mention that if we haven't solved the situation here, how are we going to solve it in some larger companies? Or, how will it be solved by larger employers, who have more employees? I also have to conclude that whoever wrote this proposal has been trying to correctly define the concept of abuse at work, but has completely dropped the facts of what has been done to an MP group over the past year and a half. So it is no wonder that Article 2 does not state the status of a MP. Because of this term, the employer remains in the future, every member of parliament can expect abuse at work. In order not to deal with the Assembly now, since Serbian citizens already know that because they are following a direct transmission, I must refer to the concrete facts of the law itself. In the procedure for protection against abuse with the employer, the intermediary has been defined as a neutral person who intervenes between parties in the dispute in order to assist parties in the dispute to resolve their disputed relationship by agreement. So now I ask the question, in preamble two – the mediator can be the person who enjoys the confidence of the parties in the dispute. So, the middleman can be the face... What if the middleman didn't, or he didn't have to? What does that mean? Who does it oblige that an intermediary can be someone who trusts both on the one hand and on the other, if one member of this law says that an employer chooses or proposes an intermediary? Maybe that, Madam of the Ministry, is funny to you, but it's real out of life. I'll give you examples, just so I don't lose the concept of the debate. So if the employer makes a proposal for an intermediary, why would the employer risk being hit by a criminal policy, if the intermediary were unrealistic to him or realistic to the employee? So this game of words that you put into this law has not solved the essential problem of the employee. What is also important is that the deadline for conducting the mediation procedure is short and is eight working days, which is essentially good, if the mediator were a judge or a court. If a mediator were to be a person chosen by an employer, it is something that does not promise any good protection of workers. The law found that the right to apply for protection against obsolescence within six months of the date on which the abuse was committed. This deadline begins from the day the last conduct of abuse was committed, I assume some of the preambles of Article 6. So six months plus eight days, what's the time limit for the complaint to be considered. It is said in the further text of this law – there are no deadlines of limitations to determine the responsibilities of the employee for non-compliance with labour discipline, i.e. infringing a working duty prescribed by law. What's the matter with me here? I want to explain it to everyone. When an employer gets a lawsuit that he abused someone, there's a deadline for him, if there's a case to be filed. And when an employer sues a worker or an employee, then the deadline is unlimited because you are calling for laws that have already been adopted: Labour Act, Civil Service Act, Labour Relations in State Authorities, etc. So they're not the same arches as the employee and the employer, at least when it comes to deadlines. If we also consider that the deadline can be moved to court and that six months is nothing, what today's judiciary can quickly solve, then it is clear that the employer is in a better position than the workers. So, in this bill of law, you've even made it possible for an employer to sue an employee for an indefinite period of time for the work he's done, perhaps injure discipline at work, five, six years ago. Then we come to blackmail – if the worker rebelles for something, the employer immediately waves at him with paper that he will sue for something he did five years ago, and then the weight of the mediators is disputed. So, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that the mediator should not exist, that it should be done by the court. If the court makes a decision that damage has been done to the employer or employee, then let the sanctions of this criminal policy that you have provided for in this law be imposed. So that I don't take up my time with my colleagues, I'm going to give you an example that may be interesting for this lady from the Ministry, who obviously doesn't understand the essence of my discussion. I have no intention of calling you because you can't answer me, but you need to know the actual state of the country. If one company, for example, "Montera", privatised "The Trubnik" for as much money as one hotel cost, and to throw out people who were to get an apartment from that hotel did everything they could to get fired or quit (in the winter they cut their electricity, flew their water), how will we commit abuse to the work of the employer's institution that got fired and did not exercise its employment rights? So this law is inconclusive and is not applicable in practice the way you imagined it. As far as we're concerned, we can't root here either for the employer or for the worker, because on impact, they can be both of them, as the court wills, but basically, the middleman is the wrong item in this law, and if you delete him, you'll have a far clearer picture of how to protect the worker from the employer or the employer from the workers. The fact is, if a worker gets abused by workers, this law can bear fruit. But if otherwise, this law is pointless and therefore this law should exist, but not in this form in which it is presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40610	Mr. Nikola Lazic is not here. Mr. Bojan Mladenovic has a word. He's not here. Alexander Pejcic has a word. He's not here. Marina Toman has a word. He's not here. National MP Nikola Savic has a word. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a proposal for two laws, a law on volunteering and a law on preventing abuse at work. These are brand-new laws. They are passed for the first time as special laws, and the problem treated by these laws has so far been contained in several other laws. What is interesting and what falls into the eyes of the law on preventing abuse at work in the first place, because first I will say something about it, is that, according to some studies, the phenomenon of labour abuse is the most pronounced in the authorities of the state administration, in ministries, secretariats, various agencies, as well as other budgetary organisations, such as education, health, culture and so forth. The state is still the biggest employer here today and, of course, its institutions are from the aspect of this law, as it stands here, practically and the greatest "abusers", so to speak, of this law. The causes of this phenomenon of labour abuse, when it comes to state institutions, are primarily in the passion and haughtiness of party officials, and we know how they are placed – from party lines from this coalition. Therefore, if we wanted to reduce abuse, at least when it comes to state institutions, it would be necessary to abolish political directors; this phenomenon would only be quite reduced based on that fact, less pronounced. The law we're talking about and the obligation of employers. This is not disputed by the aspect of employers' obligations, but it is disputed that employers in a large number of cases do not respect their obligations and do what is best for them or, if they are placed on the party line, do as is most appropriate for their parties. This law allegedly aims to protect victims of labour abuse. However, we have seen from what I have said so far that those who are in charge of creating and implementing this law contribute themselves to the said abuse of work. Here is an example: Can there be more abuse than what this government is doing? In fact, there's always talk of a better standard, a better life for citizens, and in reality it's happening completely the other way around. It is indeed a kind of abuse, and through this abuse not only abuses employees, but all citizens. In one of the members of this law, I can't say exactly what the number of members is, there's talk of compensation for material and immaterial damage. Based on some studies conducted by the Centre for the Advancement of Legal Studies from Belgrade, it has been reported that about eight per cent of employees suffer from labour abuse or mobing, according to the current term. As far as our countries are concerned, we do not have the exact information on this phenomenon as it is in EU countries. I really don't want to bid on whether this percentage is higher or smaller, but I can give you one piece of information based on the study of the Victemological Society. They say there were 117 reports of labour abuse last year. Given the fact that our people reach for this only in exceptional cases, that a large number of those who suffer from labour abuse do not have and do not know the mechanisms on which to protect themselves from this, probably this is not a credible data and probably this number is much larger. Since the law provides for compensation for material and immaterial damage, and we have seen that in one member of the law this damage is prescribed in the range of 200,000 to 800,000, if those who suffer abuse at work (or at least some of them) were asked to receive that damage, it would be a very large budget expenditure and it would be a very significant and serious sum. However, in light of the adoption of this law, you say no additional financial resources are needed in the budget to implement this law. It's just that this shows that it's not true. As far as this is concerned, I can say that there is one special science in the world today that deals with this phenomenon, that is, by measuring the indicators of this phenomenon, and it's called mobingometry. I haven't found the data, and I don't know if there's a unit of measurement and how they express the parameters of this phenomenon based on this science. We also need to know that there are still no widely accepted definitions of labour abuse in the world today, so this is one of the reasons why many countries in the EU have not yet passed such a law. Here, we are today in this House passing this law. We in the SRS have no objection to this law, and we have regrets and objections to its essence and content. Through this law, you have been a little hasty, you are ahead of some countries, and there may be some of that promised Europe that you are so anxious about. Sometimes it seems to me that this law on preventing labour abuse has primarily been tasked with creating an illusion among Serbian citizens that we will live well, and we will do little, or just what we want. This law on preventing labour abuse will not give effect. First of all, it will be lost in the forests of major regulations because these things are also treated in the Law on civil servants, the Labour Relations Act, collective contract, etc. In the end, this law didn't take care enough of the other side, the employers. We need to be honest and say that besides the tycoon, which is mostly behind by someone from this government, there are security employers. There is no way in which these security employers will protect themselves from unconscious workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40612	National MP Bojan Mladenovic has a word. You have thirty-six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40613	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, abuse of work, as well as other forms of abuse or abuse of power over the weaker and unprotected, are often invisible and hidden, and a relatively small number of people know about it. These are topics that are reluctant to be talked about and perceived as very personal, as individual problems. During privatisation in Serbia, forms of abuse were particularly expressed in companies; in the process of determining excess abuse is used, or by this psychic torture, to force workers to quit themselves and to make it easier for the employer. In these newly privatised companies, they have in some way committed to buying contracts that, in one period of at least two or three years, they cannot fire workers. Then they apply this alternative method, which is abuse at work, to get employees to quit themselves. Another type of abuse is when professional and qualified workers are moving away, not to use the harsh term, even exorcise, and the advantage is given to those who are less known but are obedient, as this makes it easier to implement the privatisation process. Then it's easier to raise the property or capital of a social firm to a lower level to make it easier to sell. The third most recognizable way is political abuse, simple and simple elimination of political opponents. He who is politically-like will remain, and he who is not will be pressured to go alone. These three types of abuse have been particularly expressed in Serbia in the past few years, and are happening today. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will not achieve what is necessary, which is to provide workers with quick and effective protection through short deadlines for handling and more temporary and safeguarding measures. This law will not allow a healthy and human working environment, a place where people can make the most of themselves during their work. In this law, there is not enough to say about sexual harassment, physical abuse, and psychological abuse. The psychological abuse represents any harsh violation of the generalized rules of moral and honorable conduct, which harms the mental integrity and dignity of a person, regardless of whether it is done by verbal speech, written means, action, gesture, facial expression or other means, and especially when it comes to persecution, humiliation, insult, ridicule, ridicule, and so forth. Mobing has been imported into Serbia in a package along with a transition. All the more boastful behavior of private business owners, sexual harassment, ignoring, ridicule, threats, cut-offs to due content are the concept of mobbing. I will give an example of Invej, the owner of Predrag Rankovic Peconi; it includes, among other things, Vrbasa Vital, Sombor Sun, Novi Sad Albus, and Peconi owns Monus, a company that deals with the production of "Fast" cigarettes in India. Peconi by skillful rotations tries to force workers to quit on their own in order to be free of severance: oil workers from Somboro are transferred to Vrbas, those from the Vrbas oil plant to the newly-saded Albus, which deals with the production of cleaning and cosmetic preparations, and workers from Novi Sad are deployed to a cigarette factory in India. He's doing all this to harass them, because they're in new jobs, in cold and empty offices, doing absolutely nothing because they have nothing to do. Such methods are simply forced to quit. In Vranj, the owner of the company "Jumko" Janis Savas, according to the workers, often hugged women, hit hips, ripped their hair, touched their faces, and all under the threat of firing, noting that they worked for only 8,000 dinars, both overtime and no vacations. In Nis, a former cultural editor in "The People's News" Slobodan Krstic, the new boss banned his entry into the newsroom because he was the leader of the press union. He, like oil workers, was deployed to a new job in another city, where he had to travel every day to a correspondent from Prokuplje. The most common form of mobbing in Serbia is the denial of workers' earnings. In Serbia, it is as present as it is. When someone cuts you off from that moment on, you feel threatened; your and your family's existence is compromised. These are very important things. Mobing, it's a violation of some kind of labour law. It's a mobing that hundreds of thousands of people experience every day and the state hasn't developed a mechanism at all, although it exists to prevent it. Employers also carried out a massive mobing by denying the right to pension, social and health insurance and profit rights. This type of mobbing is the most present in Serbia. As far as volunteering law is concerned, only two things, very briefly, specifically in relation to Article 3 where it is mentioned in Article 1 that volunteering within the meaning of this law is not considered to be the doing of the Red Cross of Serbia which are related to achieving the objectives and tasks in accordance with the law and other regulations. It's just amazing that the Red Cross isn't covered by this law. I don't see why the Red Cross activists, who are over 60,000, don't consider themselves volunteers. I think this point 6) of Article 3 must be deleted and all volunteers of the Red Cross should fall under this volunteering law. The Red Cross is a humanitarian, independent, voluntary organisation, which participates in the protection and rescue of the population, material and other goods in the event of war destruction, natural and other accidents in peace and war; it organises the collection and collection of assistance in the Republic of Serbia; it participates in the acceptance and accommodation of the evacuated population, refugees and displaced persons; it runs, organises and implements or participates in regular and extraordinary solidarity actions in the Republic of Serbia; it performs search services to collect data on evacuees, refugees, displaced and missing persons; it trains citizens members of civil protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to provide first aid in case of natural, environmental and other accidents, etc. In the end, I would say that the minister initially said that this law would encourage volunteering. How and in what way does one firm, organization or association that conducts one action within half an hour, an hour or one day, in the form of cleaning up its environment... it is necessary for the organiser to deliver a pile of paper to the Ministry and to achieve it. I think this is going to kill volunteering, because this law stipulates that the organiser must request the consent of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, must apply for volunteering, must sign a volunteering agreement with all participants. The organiser must keep a record of volunteering, must issue a certificate if volunteers so require and must submit a report by 31 March on the volunteering of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I believe this is a destimulation of volunteering, that this law will not do any good when it comes to volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40614	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40615	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have had the opportunity to present laws with beautiful names in some previous period – gender equality, peaceful dispute resolution and, behold, now prevent abuse of work and volunteering. This prevention of labour abuse is a little more serious in the name itself. Volunteering is something that sounds nice. The problems facing you as a resolute minister are much more serious than these legal proposals seem. One question should be asked: how many of you and your colleagues, previous labour ministers (I will speak only with that term, social policy or something else, could that have changed), were involved in privatisation? I guess, absolutely not. If you were involved in any case, you would first ask the question of what will be the status of those workers who worked in these companies before privatisation. That's the basic question the labour minister had to ask. Then we would certainly, after so asked questions by the minister in charge of work, have more quality privatisations. When it comes to labour abuse or mobing, it stemmed from a large number of very unquality (on the contrary, opposite laws) privatisations. If that were the case in time, then we wouldn't have these and these problems. When it comes to re-industrialisation of Serbia, it seems to me that you have been involved; you are in the name of the government, and contrary to those who have asked for the name of tycoons, you have been opposed to these people and discussed it... Even so informally said – Ljajic's commission is tasked with recording those companies that should be privatised in the coming period, and where they, you, well evaluated them, which have an economic obligation to help the real sector of Serbia have to do one different... not by offering its assistance by participating in the boards of directors of these companies to be privatised. Some of those who own large-scale capital in Serbia, now is not the time to talk about how they got to that capital, offered such help to help the state buy out the debt, and then to participate in solving these problems by privatising and after restructuring these businesses, would have the right to 10-15% of the participation in the profits of these companies. It's all something that hurts every employee and one who expects problems to be dealt with more seriously in this country. As far as volunteering law is concerned, I must say, although it is against the will and feelings of members of the Serbian Radical Party, that this law has a perspective. How and why does he have a perspective? There will be an increasing number of those who will be socially engaged, and otherwise are unemployed, left out of work, wish at least to be volunteers, to participate in Serbia's real life in any way. That's why I'm saying it and I'm certainly putting it under the assumption that this law has a perspective. It just shouldn't be like that. The law could perhaps be called the labour law, labour brigades; only if Ali Sirotanovic still appeared, he made a solid contribution in his time. I think that time has passed, that now we have to deal with much more serious problems, which grow in Serbia day and day, and there are more. A colleague, Bojan Mladenovic, was commented by Article 3. Proposal for a law on volunteering. You've listed points one to seven here, which is not a volunteer; I think, by such a decadent indication of what it's not volunteering, which is not meant by volunteering... There's probably something that can be ruled out, but if you can access a law like this, you'd have to find some cases right in the volunteering system. There may be two reasons for passing these laws. One is the reason if it is imposed by the EU. I think that should be given up immediately if it is the EU's position or recommendation. If it's a desire and a need and you see that some problems can be solved, this has to be another way. Here, in the law on preventing abuse at work, you said that whoever was abused has to start a request for his protection within six months, and after that, it goes out of date. I don't think things like that should get old. Capital owners in Serbia have become people who no longer care who works, what they will do; they buy these businesses to resell them later, to sell the business premises, and in no case was their serious intention to employ those who worked in these businesses before privatisation. If something has to be defined as volunteering, of these seven, at least three or four points (he who followed the bill, certainly the minister, he knows what it is) should be decidently listed as the conditions and cases in which volunteering must exist. What is accomplished and what are the principles or goals of volunteering? It says it contributes to the development of a more human and equal democratic society of equal opportunities. We will be a more humane and equal society, with equal opportunities expressed, if we provide jobs to a large number of Serbian citizens who are calling for it. You, not personally, of course, but the government of which you are a member, are trying to fool Serbian citizens in that way – it is certain that Serbia will come out of the crisis soon, by the end of 2010, and then we are expected by some better and happier days. I'm sure that's not the case. We at the end of 2010 because of a situation that is also in Greece... Certainly neither you nor any of us want anything like this to happen in Serbia, but you know that their commercial banks, or commercial banks, hold around 17.2% of the financial capital in Serbia, that they may be third to invest in Serbia. If their problems exist, it is certain that this will also be reflected with us in Serbia. For now, those who monitor these activities say the problem has not yet reached Serbia, but will appear in Serbia at the end of 2010. There's another situation where you'd have to engage a lot more. You know that on May 7th, General Krstic was injured, in fact, it's an attempt to kill a man who was convicted and is located where he is, in one of the most playful ways; they tried to commit murder, in a cruel and brutal way, and that our country has not yet taken... I think the consul or the ambassador talked to the family and tried to do something, but you, as president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, would have to be more clear on this matter and say what the state of Serbia is planning in such situations. I think you should send a request to The Hague to the tribunal that no more convicted Serbian citizen should go to jail in England, because it is unacceptable to treat those who are in prison in such a way. Now I would not comment on the views of the UN tribunal, but if that is the case, and if a man is to be held in prison, he must be treated by other prisoners in no way... Or maybe it's conscious of the deal. Of course, I don't mean your responsibility and I don't mean Serbia's responsibility, but... (President: You have distanced yourself from the subject. Bring in... I'll be back on the subject. It's got to be taken care of. Well, we bring laws here, Madam President, on volunteering, on preventing violence. If it is present in employment or in the workplace, violence must be prevented, and we must seriously fight it and where our citizens are in holding the prison sentence. I thank you, Minister, and I hope that on this last question you will give an answer, that the public in Serbia will know about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40616	Seventeen more minutes. Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman, at the very beginning of my today's presentation, I would like to ask the Minister one question, of course, about today's topic. Minister, how would you characterize the next situation? The shop takes place at a coffee shop in a famous Belgrade shopping centre. The director of a very famous firm and his assistant are calling one worker at a time to the table and telling them they're not working tomorrow. They offer two options: to sign a contract for a contractual break-up of relations or a contract for a technological surplus. The workers, of course, opt for this other option. However, the director, a young, capable manager, then announces that there is a third variant – a transfer to another post instead of a cancellation, regardless of the technical equipment, after which they will fire themselves without asking for anything, noting that the Technological Excess Treaty brings certain consequences for whoever is looking for it, which means that they will make sure that the person who requested the contract never hires in the same dam anywhere in the city. For the absurd to be larger, Minister, at the same time, a contribution is being made to the visit of ministers to a company whose executives share the advice given to workers. Is this, Minister, abuse, and if so, what advice would you give the workers? This, of course, is not an isolated case. Examples from practice were, after all, the most discussed during today’s day, and at least about the bill itself. I am convinced that each of us knows someone in our area, it was a relative, a friend, a neighbor, who was abused at work, although it is reluctant to talk about it, although it is not worth enough attention, and it should be because, according to the commentator, abuse at work has taken place. When it comes to the draft law on preventing labour abuse, two questions are raised: first, is a law necessary to regulate this problem? The answer, of course, is yes, and we all agree on that. However, the second question is: Is the proposed legal solution good, or will its application prevent abuse? Because of all those who have been abused, who have felt the citizens of the second order, who have been injured by human dignity, who have suffered the consequences, because of the hope that this will never happen to them again, I would like to say yes. Unfortunately, the bill, in this form in which it is today before us, confused, inexact, unspeakable, will be very difficult to apply in practice. Its application in practice will cause many problems. Some of his provisions can be interpreted in various ways. They will not bring about these drastic changes in behavior, one quite different code of conduct, which we all, as a society facing great problems, need. Doesn't seem to believe it himself. Such a conclusion states, for example, Article 4 which stipulates that "the employer is obliged to, in order to create the conditions necessary for a healthy and safe working environment, organise work in a way that is to the greatest extent possible to prevent the occurrence of labour abuse". Thus, the legislator himself does not believe that it is possible to prevent abuse at work by introducing the wording “to the greatest extent possible”. Isn't the bill also called a law on preventing abuse at work? Instead, a certain amount of the reserve is introduced in the beginning as regards the effectiveness of applying the law in practice. On the other hand, one such formulation can be the subject of a variety of subjective assessments. So, for example, an employer can avoid responsibility by referring to this member, explaining that he has done everything to prevent abuse as much as possible. To repeat, certain provisions are unarranged, incorrectly defined, leave room for arbitrary and subjective interpretations. It is also Article 12, which provides that an employee who finds out about the behaviour he rightly believes represents abuse has the right to initiate proceedings. First, what does it mean: “For whom he has reason to believe ”? Someone's belief can be based on subjective judgment. Secondly, what does it mean: "has the right to initiate proceedings"? That means he's right, but he doesn't have to do it. Is it not our goal to prevent all of us from being abused? Isn't that what we all stand for? If that's our goal, then the job, you'll agree, it has to be done by the end. The law, as it is, or its application in practice, will cause me to repeat a number of problems, and some of these problems are assessment of what abuse is, and what is the implementation of work discipline. One of the remarks is also too long a 60-day period left to the employer to inform employees of the prohibition of abuse and rights, obligations and responsibilities from the day of entry into force. Then there are formulas such as those that employees have the right to be familiar with the ban on abuse, etc. To conclude, it is undeniable that we all agree that abuses at work must not be done. However, it is obvious that we do not agree with the extent and effects of the application of this law in practice. The law, however good it is, if it is not well written – we argue that it is not, and today the promoter has not made arguments to which he would have killed our claim – is not good. The law itself, if the impossible is its adequate application in practice, is not good and does not mean anything. So we're in favour of preventing abuse at work, but not for the law written like this, confused, unspeakable, full of subjective judgments. Once again, from good intentions to good law, it still takes a lot more than what the promoter has offered us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40618	Mr. Zoran Krasic. You have nine minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40619	When abuse is said to be used, some other synonyms, such as torture, could be said - discrimination, could also be said - violation of the provisions of the Labour Act and violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a foolishly chosen term that comes out of the framework of labour law, a term that is characteristic of NGOs that in the manner described more demonstrate their emotions than the legal norm. But to go back to the bill of this law. You know, if something is forbidden, then what's forbidden must be prescribed by some standard, some member. The most forbidden contains the Criminal Code; from head to head, from member to member, states what is forbidden to do. If someone disobeys that ban, he's committed a crime. This crime has its elements, it has its being, there is consciousness, there is something that allows to determine the individual responsibility of someone who has violated a ban or committed an act. I'm not going to spread the subject, because if someone hasn't received a salary for six months, he's formally not falling under this law because the abuse here has been raised to a level, I'd say, psychic torture. To make that more clear, that's about what you do when you go to work, so before you enter the office where your job is, you grab your head and say, again, that boss, that colleague again, I have to take that memo back to my boss, he'll pay me back for the comma, because of the point. And the point can be what's written here. Could be brutal torture. It may be according to the individual, it may be according to the group, but this bill is, in fact, a declaration of what shouldn't happen, and nothing more than that. Let me take my turn. It is likely that the central member of this bill is Article 6. I'm saying, when I read article 6 to you that no one professionally engaged in law, whether it's a judge, whether it's one of the inspectors, so let it be the labour inspector, and especially those from law school, who would have to hand this over to students, they wouldn't be able to interpret what it means. To take the lead: “The abuse, in the sense of this law, is every active or passive behavior... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Excuse me, what is this behavior? If something's forbidden, then it's got to be some kind of shop, some kind of act or something. What does that mean, “behavior ”? You have nice behavior, cultural behavior, rude behavior, acceptable behavior, unacceptable behavior. From the point of view of that definition of behavior, the most successful boss is, for example, at a car transport company, that manager who calls those drivers and makes them drive, and they drive and don't get angry. So behavior doesn't mean anything, behavior isn't a legal concept. Further: “... according to an employee or a group of employees of the employer, which is repeated... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” When it's said to repeat behavior, to reduce behavior to a shop, to an act or an indemnity, it should be repeated within some reasonable time frames, two days, five days, seventeen days, etc., but already in that statute of limitations you're talking about as a final act of abuse, as a single action that has its place, a time, which begins and ends. When something repeats itself, it's extended. It's a little conflicted with that article where you're talking about a six-month limitation period. He says: “... which is the goal", if something is the goal, it is the last point of resistance where it is going, the pursuit, "or it represents a violation of dignity, reputation, personal and professional integrity... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Excuse me, professional integrity is personal integrity. Why is it called a name, a name, and a last name? It's an integral part of that personality, whether he's an KV master, whether he's a locksmith, whether he's a professor. Please, this is all about work. We come to the field of labour discipline and the execution of work obligations. You know, it's very difficult in the matter of labour discipline and labour obligations to set up something that's behavior that has nothing to do with work, the behavior of someone above, who's in some function above, or in a horizontal, that makes a man uncomfortable to get sick of getting to work. These are undefined concepts that in practice will mean nothing, which in practice can be interpreted in one way or another. This must be regulated by law, not every single case, it is impossible to define, but the action of committing acts of torture and abuse and of a kind of discrimination must be defined. It's not defined here. Then you move on with humanitarian work. He says it affects your health. You have three members where you place the medical service as something that when you write a report, it's absolutely true. However, this Tomica Milosavljevic wants to abolish the medical work, and you have put in the medical work here. If the medical services say they suffer health effects, then you've raised it to the level of presummation, that the abuse at work has already been done. How is that possible? How is it possible, on the basis of a single medical report, to establish something? Tomorrow, the boss won't be allowed to ask anyone to carry out his job. He'll say, "I'm sorry, please, I treat this like an abuse." This is not going to be in the private sector, that you know, it's going to be in the state service, local self-government, it's going to be in public enterprises, where there's something else going on in the Labour Act. Tell me, who's got a private respect for the Labour Act? If the Labour Act were respected, she wouldn't be able to pay seven months or a year late. The other day, I was in the village of Babe and one says, six months ago, we didn't get paid, we wanted to be horses, because these horses in the ergele get food and water on time, and we didn't get paid for six months. Who abuses him there? Can we even talk about this level of protection, the ban on abuse in conditions where the material safety of workers is not defined? Why is someone starting a working relationship? Yes, because of his work, some kind of money. What's he got to do with that money? Let us also apply that Marxist concept – to restore its workforce and to provide existence for its family and a better life. Excuse me, please, if you haven't paid the man his salary, how can he work? He was molested at first. That doesn't solve this law. This law even has a situation for an employer to punish himself for not punishing himself. Do you know that? Under the law, an employer should punish himself; if he does not deploy himself elsewhere, then he will go to the judge for violations. It's absurd, it's inadmissible. In abuse, when someone asks to protect someone's right and to prevent abuse, you seek consciousness, and in an act of torture against employees you don't need consciousness, you don't need intent, it's nothing, it represents it. Because of that indefinity, there will be big problems. I have to draw attention to Article 28 -- that means that the minister will have one sublegal act to regulate everything. Excuse me, please, if the sublegal act of Article 28 requires the minister to regulate the forms of appearance, prevention, how to prevent, etc., then we do not need this law at all. I have to repeat something my colleagues have said in a different way... (President: Mr. Krasic, repeat in one sentence, after the time is up.) ) We advocate the codification of labour law, that in one labour law be a complete matter of working relations, with respect for all conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40620	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise their right under Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Ostojić. You've got ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40621	I'm not gonna use all ten. I am pleased that during the morning debate on remarks by the Liberal Democratic Party, when it comes to the volunteering law, Minister Ljajic said he would respect them. I remind the viewers that our basic objection to this law is the fact that he regulates and is involved in short-term or ad hoc volunteering. Since there are a lot of bureaucratic obligations for volunteer organizers in the long term, we felt that this short-term volunteering had no place in the law. After all, in other laws and other countries, it has been avoided. Minister Ljajic said the remarks would accept you in principle. I am glad that they will accept them, after all, Serbia will have a better law if it is accepted, but I have to express my doubts. Once upon a time, Mr. Ljajic, you fooled us, when it came to the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. The same thing you said to our remarks so sweetly that you would accept them, not exactly as we suggested, but somehow different, and when we looked at the last version, i.e. the voted version, it didn't look like what we suggested. Your ability to use a decent speech to achieve your goals, it's awe-inspiring, but this time we will insist that this be consistently respected. You said you'd get into article 3, which isn't volunteering, so here you'll say it's not ad hoc volunteering, or short-term volunteering. But if you leave in Article 2 the last position, which states that the provisions of this law refer to long-term and short-term volunteering, then, somehow logically, that law, or those two members, will be contradictory to each other. So I would ask you to remain consistent with what you said and that in the debate in particular, when we come to the amendment we do together, that we have a good law, that we are non-controversial, and that this fundamental complaint of the LDP is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40622	Mrs. Tabakovic has 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40623	Thank you. Believing that the government is aiming to pass a good law, on behalf of the SNS I will make several concrete objections to the members of the law, with optimistic but not naive belief that you will adopt these objections and make this law better, and it is possible. In Article 2, where you define, I am talking about a law on preventing abuse at work, while also talking about a law on volunteering, in Article 2, you are under all other cases that should be protected listed by all those outside of working relationships, not specifically about volunteers, which even in the joint principle debate we are talking about. We believe that such work, which is in the public interest and which should be popularised, needs to be defined precisely and in the way that we have proposed this by our amendment to Article 2. I believe that, when writing this law, you relied on European Parliament Resolution 2001, number 2339, if I am not mistaken, where effective measures were really necessary to prevent the abuse of work in all cases, so I insist that they be volunteers, because the insecurity of employees, through growing short-term labour contracts, whose form is changing, I think you have not covered this Article 2 well enough, and that is what needs to be done. Article 3, not in the name of women, but in the name of sexual abuse that you have prescribed here to protect yourself with a labour contract, I ask that this provision be deleted, because this law is the one that offers a higher level of protection against abuse, and sexually, it is the number most often and women are the most frequent victims of abuse. Don't let the provision to treat sexual abuse under the Labour Act remain here, because this level of protection is lower than this law. I think you need to respect such a remark. I would agree with some colleagues who say that the sixth member is the one hiding the devil, who is not hidden at all. In article 6, you define abuse as something that repeats itself. It's simply inadmissible, incorrect and unacceptable, in a collapsing with other laws to write that there's only one thing that's going to be punished, because it would turn out to be, not even logical, that one time harassment, I'm not going to say it's legal, but it's impunity. Is that right? If you write that only the harassment and harassment that is repeated is punishable, every other conclusion by the basic one - which is not prohibited is, can be treated this way and, in that procedure that provides for the law, simply unproven, that the guilty person is not punished. Secondly, I'm curious, you referred to experts who wrote this law, I don't want to offend anyone, I'm an economist, but I think I'm an average intelligent person, who can read the law, when you write, "who repeats himself", does the victim repeat himself, the work, the one who does it? The precision in that formulation is whether the abuse of a different type, from a different person, is really not clear enough in this article. Most importantly, which is why I insist that you take a good look at the SNS amendment to Article 6, is that you did not cover a case that is the reason for the whole of this law, which is when abuse victims leave work without breaking up work. This is where you treat punishment when it comes to breaking up a working relationship, not leaving work; for he who is abused is most often going away, and he who has abused him gives him fired. Please take a close look at Article 6, last sentence of Article 1, and read if you have reached the goal of the law here, because, remember, not by letter, but in the spirit of the law, we need to talk when we are discussing the laws. Is it precisely the goal of the abuser, to call him so conditionally, to have someone leave, not to break up, but to get fired and to be the victim's boastful, spoiled, irresponsible culprit? Please read carefully and see if you need to include in this article 6 and the case when a job is abandoned and the cause of abandonment is abuse, because that protection must be extended for this case of job abandonment. I will again refer to the good liquid of European Law Resolution 2339 on effective protection measures. Something that will be interesting to lawyers, which I have little to do with the SNS legal team, is a formulation in Article 11(3) where it is said that "abuse of the right to protection against abuse, in the sense of this law, makes an employee who is conscious or had to be aware". Could abuse be done with unconsciousness? Ask the lawyers what they think about this, because the abuse of rights in our legal system so far is treated only by direct imagination. Consult legal experts. Does it matter to me if someone was unconscious when they hurt me in this way? The legislator, the one who proposes the law, and the ones who talk about it here, we should keep that in mind. It turns out that whoever committed some abuse against me at work didn't have the will to do me any harm and didn't have any awareness of it, as well as the awareness of the possible consequences, which I'm clearly suffering. Please take another look at that. In Article 23, where you are talking about the procedure for determining the responsibility of the employee, I ask you to delete attitude 3, where he says – if an employee, who has been given a measure of abuse, which is if someone commits abuse for the first time, does not commit six months, can be punished with the most severe punishment. To translate into Serbian: someone who abuses for the first time, so repeat it in six months, plus one day, will not be punished, as this law provides. I claim, and you read what it says in Article 23, and you will see, I am convinced that it was no use to you when you passed this law, to ask someone who did the deed to be patient for six months, to do it again for six plus one day. By erasing this attitude, the employer shall be able to (and should) stop the working relationship by allowing the perpetrator of the abuse at work in difficult cases. By definition of the law, you don't allow it. One who abuses can be sure that he will not be fired if he adheres to the exact wording set out in Article 23. I repeat, it is not the purpose of adopting this law to make protection measures ineffective, but to be effective. It won't be a waste to repeat what my colleague said before – the minister can't sign a sublegal act or abuse at work, nor the protection procedure, nor the protection authorities, nor the consequences. Neither can the law describe any possible occurrences of abuse, measures, etc., nor are they universal because they depend on culture, customs. I guess we're trying to stay special about something that respects human relations is and that, according to this law, we define what is punishable and that the law really does carry out its goal by carrying out these consequences, measures and descriptions of these works in a clear enough way. Because if the minister prescribes as detailed as you have prescribed, the abuser will, by reading that sublegal act, seek unpunished formulation and impunity abuse, satisfy his ugly and perverse urge without being held accountable. You have to admit not that it makes sense what I'm saying, but to read tax laws like that, that's how all the laws that determine guilt are read and you want to avoid it. Now a little more work for those very good experts who helped you write the law, it's about a member of the 31st proposal. For the first time you have introduced a very interesting definition, which is – if during the proceedings the prosecutor made it likely that abuse was committed, the burden of proving that there was no behavior that represented abuse was on the employer. Since when does this negative fact or absence of fact prove itself? As a rule, the negative facts, i.e. the absence of facts, are not proved. I really don't see the point of bringing in one of these members where you've predicted such a very unusual way of proving that there was no abuse, i.e. prove protection and your good intentions for those who may be subject to abuse. In the end, I repeat the general remark. The law has been passed too late for those you have already given notices, giving them a unit without criteria, for those who will not be able to rely on their damaged rights under this law, that they have been abused, but not even the minimum legal rights that were possible before the law was passed or, rather, the regulation, in its essence, on the maximum number of employees in the state administration. So the law is bad. The intention of good proves that the path to hell is paved by good intentions, but if you really have good intentions, please, to debate in particular, not thinking about what these proposals are from the opposition, from the SNS, respect what we all, our children, our colleagues can mean in preserving our jobs and personal integrity at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40624	Thank you. Miss Elvira Kovac has a word. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40625	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament; Mr Minister, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and all the remaining few MPs, for showing a good example of the Serbian Government, who has held out the whole working day with us Members. You've probably noticed that MPs' objections to volunteering law, regardless of what parliamentary groups it is, are very similar. In the afternoon, I dealt specifically with amendments and reviewed them; and on one and the other laws, and on the law on volunteering and on the law on preventing labour abuse, there have been 70 amendments delivered. We sincerely hope that you will review these amendments in detail and look forward to the government's opinion, as we look forward to your final word today. Analyzing these amendments, I saw that, regardless of whether MPs belong to opposition parties or part of the ruling majority, we agreed that we should deal with the issue of short-term volunteering and the specific question of how to involve children in volunteering activities in some way, means that we do not limit ourselves to 15 years of life. Of course I am very aware of the government's arguments that there is a need for recording, that contracts, certificates, etc. are needed. Many MPs have said that it may be excessive bureaucracy. It's not an exaggeration of bureaucracy. We do not want to delete the members of the proposed law relating to the report, to the contract, to the certificates, to the records, etc., but we only want it to apply to long-term volunteering, not to the short-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40626	Mr. Minister, he obviously has a desire to speak to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40627	I'm going to look very briefly at some of the remarks that are highlighted here. This morning I was talking about those who are more or less common and who are the least common content in the presentations of almost all parliamentary groups. Of course, I will repeat my willingness to accept any amendments that will improve the text of the law and amendments for which we can get most, which can be voted on. The largest number of complaints in this afternoon's debate referred to Article 6 of the Law on the Prohibition of Abuse. There is no generalised definition. It doesn't exist. In parallel law, we analyzed absolutely all definitions, they're all similar, none of them are identical to each other. This is an attempt to come up with a definition that is of general character, but which will cover and provide sufficient basis for the application of the law itself. We couldn't highlight all the phenomenal forms of abuse. No, because there are, so far, 45 different kinds of abuse. And if we'd counted all 45, we'd probably have a new kind of abuse in two months, a year, and we'd have to change the law, throw in additional types of abuse. So we decided to lay down a rulebook and then change that rule over time, depending on the circumstances. I agree with what fellow MP Zoran Antić said the key is, concerning this law, the adoption of a new labour law or the amendment of the existing Labour Act. What I disagree with is that it's a liberal law. Unfortunately, he's neither liberal nor unional. He stands in the middle of the road; the workers are dissatisfied, and the employers are dissatisfied. That's why we have to change that law. In order for him to be changed, we need the consent of the social partners. The ministry has prepared a motion to amend that law, but it is worth nothing to us unless we reach this agreement. As far as the burden of proof is concerned, it is an international standard. This isn't the first time. We have a law against discrimination, where there's a burden of proof on the one who's discriminating. This could, in a broader sense, be marked as a law belonging to the anti-discrimination law Corps and this is not any newspaper. We follow this trend that has been initiated by the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. As far as volunteering law is concerned, the biggest objections refer to the fact that in Article 3 of the volunteering does not apply to the Red Cross. For the simple reason that the Red Cross acts under the Law on the Red Cross of Serbia, according to the regulations and statutes, according to the Geneva Convention and by the rules of international organisations in this area, and that this was an explicit request of the Red Cross, which took part in the drafting of this law, that they were not subject to the provisions of the volunteering law. Therefore, during the debate there were more objections, not to look back at everything, we are ready to accept any amendments that will improve the text of the law, regardless of who they come from. Something that has nothing to do with this subject, I owe Mr. Peric's response to the incident against General Krstic in British prison. It doesn't say we didn't do anything. What we did was we talked to his lawyer Višnic yesterday; we're in touch with his family. We got all the information from that side. Yesterday I wrote to the president of the court, Robinson, asking General Krstic to move out of British prison. Unfortunately, the incident yesterday was just a culmination, because on many occasions similar situations occurred, not with these consequences. We asked him to be transferred from that prison. We will discuss this with Prosecutor Brammertz the day after tomorrow, although this is not in the formal sense of his jurisdiction, but we will seek support for our prisoners to maintain a sentence in prisons in Serbia. Unfortunately, there is an obstacle there, and this is a recommendation from the UN Secretary-General in 1993 that UN war crimes indictees cannot withstand a sentence in the former Yugoslavia's area. Talks have recently been held to make it happen with Slovenia. That's not enabled either. We still have that request to go to the prosecutor and to the United Nations. I cannot say that our chances in this regard are high, but we are having talks with other and neighbouring countries that were not part of the former Yugoslavia to at least sign an agreement with the tribunal on the maintenance of the Hague indictments. So far, 17 such countries have signed the agreement, and we will see whether the country we are having talks with accepts that it will sign the agreement in order to allow them to serve punishment somewhere around Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-11-0.u40628	Your associates and you, Mr. Minister, thank you. Allow me, gentlemen, to conclude a joint principled search on the draft law on the prevention of labour abuse and the draft law on volunteering. I thank you for your active participation in the work, and I express my satisfaction that we have had a debate filled with an extremely parliamentary atmosphere. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the MPs' sittings: Nikola Lazic, Konstantin Arsenovic and Esad Juddjevic. On the basis of Article 88(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, I also called for the sittings to be attended by Zoran Petrovic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government Darko Radojčić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. We move to a joint principled search of the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Freedom of Justice of the Republic of Serbia Agreement on the decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint review of the draft laws of the agenda, points 3 and 4 and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS - JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Djordje Milicevic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Zoran Shami of the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and MP Boris Aleksic of the SRS Parliamentary Group. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law amending the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
