ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the sittings. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Miroslav Markicevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Igor Vukonjanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Transport be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, the vote was 2. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandar Jugovic, Aleksandar Cotric, Zika Gojkovic and Mirko Cikiriz proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law opening the security service file in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, 58 voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Chambers of Health Workers and the Proposal for a Law on Psychoactive Controlled Substances; the Second, Joint Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Treaty between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Non-Adhesion of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Amendments of the Treaty between Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Affairs in the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? (No) I'm putting the motion to the vote. Of the 131 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the proposal. I find the proposal accepted. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, and on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted for the draft agenda in general. I realize we've accepted this agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the chambers of health workers; 4. Proposal for a bill on psychoactive controlled substances; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on amendments to the Treaty between Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on amendments to the Treaty between Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on Social Security; 11. Proposal for a Law confirming the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea, adopted in 1974 and the 2002 Protocol on the Amendments and Supplements to the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea, adopted in 1974; 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. I will ask you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to attend the memorial assembly, since suddenly, former MP Branislav Cole Kovacevic of Kragujevac passed away. The memorial will be in the Little Hall. We'll be working on it right after the memorial and we'll be working longer than 1800 hours today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48602	Dear MPs, we continue our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments of Civil Servants and Directors (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Djuro Peric, MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unity of Serbia; Parliament MP of the Rade Group of the Serbian Radical Party, and if any of the parliamentary groups decide to appoint an authorised representative, please inform us that we could inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Before I invite Minister Milan Markovic to enter the hall, just to remind the MPs that on the basis of Articles 90, paragraph 2 and 87 today, we will be working after 1800 hours, but only until the end of the work, i.e. the search of the agenda on which it is just opened, i.e. whose principle search has just been opened, is the bill that is before us. I have opened the point and I have information that Minister Milan Markovic is in the building with MP Rizzo Halimi, but I consider it necessary for him to be in the O.R. right now, so I ask MP Riza Halimi and Minister Milan Markovic that if they have work in common to take a break and both enter the O.R. now, or I will set a break, after which they will also have to enter the O.R. Since there is no Minister Milan Markovic, I am setting a 15-minute break and I am asking all the MPs who I know want to schedule meetings with Minister Markovic to allow him to at least give an opening lecture, and then take him out of the O.R. to the jobs that the minister should do. We'll be working on about 15.20 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15.35]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work in the afternoon session. I apologize to the MPs that the break that was set lasted ten minutes longer than anticipated, but all the conditions have been obtained to continue to work after the opening of a principled search of the bill. The minister is present. Does the proposing representative, Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48604	Dear People's MPs, I also apologize for this delay, because I am the reason for the delay. We had a meeting in the Coordination Body, which unfortunately lasted two hours longer than was predicted. In any case, the opening statement will not be long, because it is also a draft law that is quite clear, although I have no doubt that the subject itself can be inspiring to talk about the system of state administration. So here is a particular theme of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. It's just that one idea that I have to say, two years ago, along with the President of the Independent Union of Staff at the Administration, unfortunately she couldn't live, she couldn't be accepted by the government. However, this idea was adopted in the meantime under different circumstances, and it consists in reducing the amount of wages that was laid down by law to 1:9 to 1:5.6, mainly to something up to 1:1.6. And that's how civil servants and low-income tenants would get an increase ranging from 17 to 41, 51%. So this is the percentage of the increase by new coefficients, so that all other salaries in the state administration remain intact, at the same level that they have been at so far, but these people who have had the lowest income are paid, and these are received from 12.037, so below minimum, up to 25.999 raise and now the lowest salary for the one with the primary education – the sixth pay group is 16.049, with higher professional training, the editor30. 000, a junior referencer with a medium professional capacity of 22,000 and an associate with a higher professional capacity of 30,000 dinars. So these are your ranges. I think this was a long time ago. I think it's also a measure of solidarity, given the spreads that existed in the salaries. I don't think these are the salaries a man can live with I don't know how, because these are people who are mostly employed in Belgrade, 90% of them, and these salaries are spent in Belgrade, where life costs are far higher than inland, but it's good that it happened. So I don't think it's necessary to change the relationship differently in perspective, but to be the one that's now, which is 1:1.6. It's this bill of law. Of course, wages have been established by law and cannot be changed differently from the draft law, and that is why the Government has established this proposal, and that is why we are today in front of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48605	Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) Ambassador Milisav Petronijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48606	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, MPs, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Salaries of State Officials and Deputys of the SPS-JS Group will support, but with support he would like to point out a few things about this. The point, as the minister said, is to raise salaries to those who had salaries below the minimum. This is about paying classes from the 13th to the 10th pay group. To simplify that to the people, it's about those clean administrative workers with high and high school supplies. Second, it's about the tenants from group six to group three. Again, let's put it simply, that the people understand, it's about housewives, physical workers, masters, printers, etc. We give full support for the following reasons. We think the state should, and we will always support it when it does, to help those who have the least. This is exactly how the state helps those workers who have the least. I've already said, it's about clean workers, those who work like worms all day, they don't have the responsibility of having the country in a difficult situation, to many unsolved things, etc., but they're already working hard for a pay that's small. I think we are required and I demand that the Minister explain to the public once again the essence of this change in law and to whom it refers. We have been witnessing lately that, simply put, it is time to create an otium in public – there, increasing wages! To be clear, it increases those who have salaries below minimum. The second thing I'm trying to say is this part of that is about recalculating overtime into the days off. It's the point and it's new that it shrinks to three months a month. So, when these people are working this month, they're supposed to take advantage of those days off. I can welcome the idea right now, but also express my doubts about whether they'll be able to do it for work next month. That's new. It is also new to introduce, with previous consent, overtime longer than that established by the Labour Act. Some balance has been found. The rest is old, that if they can't use the days off to pay them with a 26% increase. When it comes to this part of the law, I want to express the reserve, I want to express, if you will, even the opposition to the proposal to delete the provision of Article 29 of the Law. What is the essence of eradicating Article 29's provision? Under the current law, those civil servants who are in office, and these were appointed by the ministerial assistants in turn, not to mention, did not have the right to compensation for overtime, among other things and other fees, other than compensation for the time spent at work, i.e. past work, as we say. I must tell you that I am against that provision being abolished, for the simple reason that we would question the essence of this law, which is to help those who have the least pay. So it's about people who take responsibility for the moment when they become what they are, it's about people who have, say, a pay group of nine, a coefficient, that has a higher salary, for example, a chief of staff, that has a higher salary than a president whose head is a cabinet, etc. They must, like everyone else, be patient, wait for better times. Very clear. The third thing I'm saying is, the changes to this bill will require about a billion and six million dinars. Not small funds, but I want to do it again, it's about people who work hard, and they have extremely small salaries. It's about people who had, say, a salary of 12,000 dinars or something a little bit more, Mr. Minister, you better know what the base is, I think 16049, if I'm not mistaken, and let's say, the minimum labour price is 16,720 for November, and for December 17,480. And with this correction, which is almost some kind of help to these people, a minimum price will not be reached again. I want to use this as a cause, Mr. Minister, to get in, I think this government should do it, in more serious, more detailed consideration of the overall state of the country's wage system, because this is only the help of the most vulnerable people. We think it should be entered into a full system of wages in the state. When I say this, I mean the following, of course, taking care of Serbia's economic strength, taking care of Serbia's needs, Serbia's possibilities, so, about the need to be rationally organised, about the need to be effective, etc. But, Mr. Minister, this has to be done in order for this to happen, and we must not solve serious issues by dividing the Assembly into two parts, or 40%, administration by 13%, etc. When I say that we should seriously enter the salary system in the state, then I also think about state officials, I don't mean MPs, they're always in charge of putting up with criticism that they have big salaries, and the salary is 76,000 and it is big, given that others have much less, but I think, first of all, that someone determines who the state officials are. What is their measure of all this, the state administration -- how, is this also a satisfactory schedule? Many believe that there is still a way of progress to be seen, trade unions think that even more securely, in a way that is foreseen by law, so that it does not depend solely on whether someone is obedient, loyal, etc. Could it be a condition for him to make progress? When I say the system, by the state administration, I mean a large number of independent regulatory bodies. There's no telling, there's no clear rules about what wages are and how much money they make. And of course, the general cry of the people rightly is, simply, you have great wages. We have a situation that when an independent shows up with a pay request, the explanation is because he's independent. Someone else because he's doing a responsible job, and we get into a funny situation -- that it almost seems like the President of the Republic, who has the lowest salary of all of them, addicted, doesn't do a responsible job, the Prime Minister doesn't do a responsible job, etc. I think it must be with much more systematicity, justice to settle the entire pay system. When they are independent, their independence is viewed as being independent in doing business, independent in making decisions, but not independent of the country's economic situation, any other. The point of my address is that this is for support, because help is at stake. And we will always support every measure of government that helps those who are the hardest, who are the most threatened. But once again, you have to get into the essence, you have to look at the entire system of state, so all those who spend state money, so to speak. Of who they are, what kind of place they belong in all of this, what it's worth, because it doesn't make sense that the assistant minister has a higher salary than the minister, that the head of the cabinet of the president has a higher salary than the president, etc. Simply, please take care of it because, Mr. Minister, with the praise of this, the state administration of small wages will remain small, large. Therefore, we are looking for a comprehensive system, in general, not to exclude anyone, from government officials, through state administration, to all independent, regulatory, etc. Only then will we introduce one system into the whole, look at everything and go before this people and say – so we should be organized, it costs so much, we will allow the state to function in the best possible way. I'm aware of the policy, and I'm a politician, and everyone would rather send some short-term message, and I think any short-term message costs more than one essential way to get into that problem. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48607	13 minutes and 30 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's good to see you here today. I don't know if it's exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure, I don't know if you've been running for office, but I intend to commend you seriously, I don't know if it'll do you any harm. I must admit that you are completely different from all the government ministers you represent and whose member you are. That's absolutely commendable. We highly appreciate all your presentations in the National Assembly, whether we always agree with them or not. I think that's the essence of these very democratic processes that we're all fighting for together. You are the only minister who openly said he had different proposals for reforming the sector that represents, specifically, about the process of rationalising the number of employees. Your proposal didn't go through, the government was adopted by others. You seem to have told us the last time openly, since others have pushed your ideas out, then let those whose ideas have passed, if they are better, be able to implement them. I don't think any other minister did. Here it must absolutely be commended by all the MPs. Today we have a concrete law from your resor, the Law on the salaries of civil servants. There are only five members, including this last member, who says it will take effect when published in the Official Messenger after a certain deadline. All a few members of the law. The explanation is very simple. What is extremely important for these discussions is that in a state, an organised society, no portfolio is separate and state officials, a very important category in the portfolio of state administration, are only one segment of the functioning of all state institutions. If we look at the segment separately, we don't have those comments about the alignment and about the reduction of the coefficients that exist. Of course someone can always object, why 1.51 why 1.56, why not 1.53 or something else. I've never done that before, I'm not going to do it now. What is particularly important for the application of this law is – will this law be applied? If we ask a question in the National Assembly – will the law be applied, especially if you ask a lawyer such as yourself, then it may sound very unusual, but it is a key question for us today, when we are discussing this law – will this law be applied? Why do I ask you that? Let's take some other laws. Today is December 15th, 2010, Mr. Krasic, today is December 15th, and it cannot be voted differently. Instead of this law today, we should have discussed and voted on the RS budget for 2011. The budget should be here in the hall on November 1st, and on December 15th, we should have adopted it, so that all state institutions, local self-government and everyone else in this country, I watched the Treasury Administration the other day, there are over 10,000 budget users, registered with the Treasury Authority, all of them should prepare for 2011. Not that we haven't adopted and we're not going to pass that law tonight, but we haven't even seen it since the government hasn't adopted it. It's one thing if there's something in the law, and the other thing is whether it's going to apply. Two months ago, we passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I assume, was in the government. We need to choose fiscal advice. The fiscal council is composed of three members. One member is proposed by the President of the Republic, the Governor of the National Bank and the finance minister. They had a deadline of 60 days from the date of entry into force of the law. The law came into force on 13 October, 60 days expired on December 12th, and we still have no candidate. That's what the law says. We had serious doubts about the Fiscal Responsibility Act. That law also concerns the application of this law. In what way? A very unusual case, but in the Law on the Budgetary System and fiscal responsibility, it writes what the mass of salaries in the state administration and pensions will be. Among other things, the law makes it very clear that on January 1st, pensions and public sector salaries will grow for inflation in the last six months. We listened to the governor two days ago. Inflation over the last six months has been slightly less than 6%. Salaries and pensions are up 2%. Why is the Fiscal Responsibility Act violated, announced as a law that introduces order? Mr. Colakovic, you and I have talked about this many times, as it is possible to break such an important law? The answer is, there's no money. How can the deal be? I don't have the money, I'm breaking the law. Can I go to distribution and say - I don't have the money, I can't pay for the electricity? One thing is good intentions, and the other is obligations that we all have to comply with the laws unconditionally. We can change the ones we don't like, but we're not allowed to disrespect what the law says. It is about the agreement, when signed with the IMF, you know that, has taken over Serbia's commitment to pay in the public sector, then entered the Law on the Budget System, that the mass of public sector wages is 8% of GDP. She was about 10% last year. Public sector wages should be reduced by one quarter, from 10% of GDP to 8% of GDP. What's this got to do with the law? We'll match those salaries, but obviously some of us need to cut salaries, or we need to reduce the size of the public sector. I don't see a third solution. It's not gonna happen. That's exactly what you pointed out in this debate. You said you had a different model, I guess that's what you meant. What are we gonna do with that? We're going to commend the great law, we're going to say it's nice, and then we're going to say it -- we can't respect it. How can pensions be 2% instead of 6 now? I'm sorry, actually, those senior pensioners are going to jump another 1%. Those who have a pension of 5,000 will have another 50 dinars to jump their pension. Is that right? Well, if it's 5,000 dinars, then it's another 1%. That's what this is about. What are we going to do, can we also respect the Law on fiscal liability regarding wages because we're talking about civil servants' salaries? The governor announced that inflation will continue to grow and there is an estimate that, with the likelihood that it will be between 10% and 14.5%, since public sector wages are tied and pensions are tied to inflation, does this mean that funds are provided in the course of next 2011, that growth will be 14%? Since we won't do it in January, does that mean we'll be able to do it in April and October? Are the funds provided for the implementation of that law? It's a serious debate, it's serious arguments. We can say - it's a little bit of this, let's increase more. Does Serbia have the strength to do that? Minister Dragutinovic, the finance minister said yesterday -- the fight against inflation will be resolved by selling Telekom. Okay, that's what we're going to sell, in 2011, we're going to solve inflation with Telekom, and what are we going to do in 2012, 2013? There's not much to sell. What concerns us most is that ministers make statements easily, and that after a month or two, they say, no matter what, that's out of the question. It was a statement by firing employees at the state administration. Law passed, no proposal passed, one passed, another adopted. The minister whose proposal he passed said after a few months – who fires people in recession? We're not normal to apply that law. It is a message sent by the state of Serbia and foreign investors and everyone else. Look at the two perhaps largest economies or among the largest economies in the world. One is American, one is Great Britain. They have totally opposite approaches to the fight against the economic crisis. The U.S. government directly pumps up money in the economy. He hopes it won't raise inflation and solve the problem. Great Britain is conducting a rigorous savings, reducing high-school isolation, reducing the significant military budget, firing 490,000 public sector people, introducing significant other cuts, and then thinking that it will relieve the economy and introduce the economy on its way out. These are two completely conflicting examples, but both governments stand unanimously behind it and there's no way you can hear - the Prime Minister of Great Britain fired his chief adviser because we have a statement that didn't match the government's policy. It will not happen that both governments have diametrically opposed statements, but rather run a single policy. What we're missing right now is a single policy and a way out of the crisis. By adopting proposals that solve all problems, then we will not comply with the laws, it will certainly not solve any of the problems. It's important that we know how many employees are involved in this law. It's important that we know what the general plan is, what your plan for reforming the entire sector is, because it's quite clear that with this number of state bodies and various para-state bodies, it's hard for us to be able to satisfy what it says in our laws, about the mass of wages and all the other parameters. The question is, is the organization even good, is the way public enterprises function, for example, good enough? If there is direct communication between the Government and the Director of Public Enterprises, then the basic question is what is the function of the Management Boards, if they do not appear anywhere. Whenever there is a problem or crisis, everyone calls either the minister or the director, no one remembers the board members and the board president. Let's make a press release to the administration by abolishing the boards of directors so that it's our proposal, not if it's the case that the director destroys the company and stays in that firm to work as a consultant. Who does he advise if he has been removed because of his incapacitation? That's what's worrying us. As for your proposal and your idea, we can't initially say that this idea doesn't regulate something that wasn't logical, but the question is what are the guarantees that what follows behind that idea will be realized. I have no doubt that you will personally push it through, but you are not alone. You know for a fact that many decisions are made by majority vote. These are some things that worry us and some things that don't give us any hope that next year will be better. All of us together and the citizens who watch this know next year won't be good. We don't need findings. We need ideas and we need projects to help things get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48609	12 minutes and 20 seconds of time have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. National MP Momo Colaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48610	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable People's MPs, as regards the law that is on the agenda today, I will only say that our MP group has given an idea and suggested that these corrections be done twice on the Administrative Board. We thought that workers who serve us, who do more than we do, should be rewarded differently, starting with cleaners, workers, people who work in the administration. This was respected on the Administrative Board and came together with the idea of which Mr. Minister spoke. That is why in the voting day, we will support this law both in principle debate and in particular, if it is. As for the discussion of my esteemed colleague Obradovic, I will not comment more widely on it. When there's a law on pension-involvement insurance in the procedure in the Assembly and the budget we'll talk about it, but let me put it to the conclusion that's been made here, it's not good for us. It's not about raising pensions 1%, the law states that the lowest pensions will grow by 1%, that means if they're agricultural by 8% and then such pensions are aligned with as much as wages and pensions grow. This opened up the possibility for me to explain that there is an increase in pensions by 1% in one category, only the correction and bringing into harmony, as we had previously advocated, that the largest pensions are mildly stopped, i.e. to be reduced, this is said in the bill, and that the lowest pensions grow slightly and when they are established, during January, they will then be harmonised as all other pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48611	Two minutes of time has been used by the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Radojko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48612	I apologize to Mr. Colakovic. The alignment will be with that 1% plus what needs to be done. What the problem is, we look forward to that budget, I guess he'll get into this assembly sometime. But I look forward to seeing if, since inflation is clearly 6%, pensions will increase those 6% on January 1st. I have to remind you of the DSS and Minister Diana Dragutinovic have advocated that pensions do not grow linearly but make the difference between the lowest and highest pensions. You claimed otherwise, that it puts a mess in the pension system, that all pensions should be distributed linearly. You claimed it here. I'll find the stenographic notes when there's a debate about it. Right now, you're saying what we claimed two years ago. I support your coming to our point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48613	National MP Momo Colaković, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48614	We understand each other wrongly, and Mr. Obradovic mistakenly interprets what we have talked about before now. Gentlemen, you've suggested that the lowest pensions increase by 30%, which would collapse that PIO system. This is about a proposal that will come on the agenda, and I don't want to talk about it now, but when it's law and then cross arguments, with respect for what Mr. Obradovic said and warned about everything that could happen. I'm not denying it. But about that one. When they come together, we'll talk about it. What I said about trying to make things right according to the ideas we gave, and you guys talking about it, I don't have anything to say, but when the laws come, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48615	National MP Rade Obradovic, right on line. This closes the circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48616	I'd add one sentence, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm done. Thank you for giving me the chance. We wanted to raise the lowest pensions 30%, and you say it's much better to increase the lowest pensions 1%. You probably know how to explain to the pensioners that 1% is above 30%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48617	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48618	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. On behalf of the Group of MPs, I would start by telling the story of why you say citizens, and you mean yourself, or to offer my colleague Petronivic, who I would agree in the discussion to vote in favour of the amendment that we have submitted, that Article 3. The bill deletes, in which I would like to say that the intention of this law is quite different from the one that wants to be presented in public. The story of a pay cut is true, but it's only part of the story. The essence of this story is in Article 3 of the proposed law, where Article 29 is deleted, where an old member of 29 of those civil servants who were in office and who had previously only had the right to add time to a working relationship in fact deleted a member and given the right to use the possibilities of overtime. I'm going to be interested in Mr. Minister with only two thesis. The law says that for this unification of the position and the reduction of the range to 1:6 instead of 1:9 is actually a story of a mass of 1.6 billion dinars that needs to be reduced to these ranges. Since I am an economist, I must say that I still believe that there is honesty, honesty and truth in this policy, to say the following, this 1.6-billion mass does not mean that it will equalise and reduce the ranges for these lower categories that the colleague has spoken of because from the mass, it will allow the salary to be increased to civil servants in the position of eradicating Article 29, and that is one of the perverse ways that you will increase your salaries to your first associates. Because the Law on State Administration says that civil servants are in a position whose place of work consists of business from the work of the state administration body, as well as courts, public prosecutors, defences, the service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court and the Service of the Authority whose members are elected by the National Assembly or associated general, legal, information, material and financial, accounting and other affairs. It is said that civil servants are not MPs, nor the President of the Republic, nor the Constitutional Court judges, nor members of the Government, nor judges, nor prosecutors, nor deputies, nor other persons elected by the National Assembly or appointed by the Government, but the civil servants are in office, says Article 34, which the Government places in office, so they are: the Assistant Minister, Secretary of the Ministry, Director of the Administration of the Ministry, Assistant Director of the Administration in the Chamber, Director of the Special Organization. Some citizens have been translated to read that it is over 100 of those public agencies and authorities of the government, whose money flows are difficult to control or, to be even more honest, to say that we have no control over them at all, that they are deputy and assistant directors of the government's service, deputy and assistant general secretary of government, the republican public defender, deputy public defender and chief of management. By erasing Article 29, not these categories of people, not the furniture, but those who have a position in the government, who are fully deliberately pointing out – just those who can introduce overtime, those who will be able to do these amendments of the law, I do not claim that, but open the space to abuse the Institute of Excessive Work and that what is most frightening do not even receive temporary work until 90 days of some new young people we all stand for. So, the one who is obliged to redistribute his hours and not work for more than eight hours and to accept if he needs to do temporary work and the various types of engagements allowed by the Labour Act and our regulations, will not receive some people to train, create from them a high-quality state administration where a modern state should rest, but can now afford itself overtime, and so far it has not been able to do so. For this reason, you simply cannot vote for this law. What does the law predict with changes? That everyone who works an hour longer than regular hours had and now has the right to use an hour and a half free, but until now he has had the right of six months to get those overtimes translated into free use over the next six months. You're now shortening that right to the next month. So, the one who's worked for over eight hours, all that he's acquired as hours off, he's got to use it in the next month. Exceptionally, if it becomes a rule with us, with the previous consent of the employee, overtime can also be introduced for longer than what has been established by general labour regulations, which is the longest 20 hours a week. Who today has so much physical strength and mental potential that this legal restriction can overcome? And you say with the consent of the employee, so there may be exceptions to this rule. So you're saying that this way the introduction of overtime can be the longest 90 days of the calendar year. Why don't you get someone, in 30, 60, 90 days, some interns learn the job? Why don't you do it? Because you say – a civil servant who, due to the nature of his job, will not be allowed to use his free hours during the next month will be paid for every hour of overtime, the basic salary of a civil servant increased by 26%. Now it's the right to introduce 26% more of the employee's hour to those who are high-ranking civil servants. It doesn't matter. Someone's watch costs 800 dinars, and someone's price, as those who've dealt with this matter say, 1045 dinars. For example, the union in the judiciary says that the secretary of state, which belongs to this highest category of civil servant who can introduce himself to overtime, because the law says that he is an employer to these officials, but the building does not issue a warrant, that government represents a name and last name, a signature and approval in the image of the executive, which is the secretary of state to itself. His overtime now stands at 1045 dinars, quoting a union statement. In addition to an annual profit of a million 740 thousand dinars net, what he puts in his pocket can be added to another 518,320 dinars annually on behalf of overtime. Why? That's why those 20 hours allowed under the Labour Act turned into 352 hours a year can now, by the exception of the rule I spoke of, be 496 hours overtime. Is it really justified that this restriction under the equalising law firm for these officers in place prevents the employment of some new and others or that, this is not a cartoonation but a very common case, which goes to the committee in the afternoon, visits various counseling, because it also allows him to make progress in the service and pay for language, professions, etc., or even play games on the computer, and does so by 4:00 p.m., he can enroll himself from 4:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. in overtime hours? Do you think it's impossible or do you think it's not happening or is it a question of all questions – can we afford it as a state and as a society? Is under the law firm, where ranges that will cost a budget of 1.6 billion more as a mass can pay for this and this kind of unhappiness, or volunteerism in the use of resources that we have as a society? The basic law states that Article 29 treats the rights of officials in a position that has exercised certain rights in a working relationship, and you translate it into a working time and a way of exploiting working time. I believe that this law is not only an open valve for a single increase that cannot be controlled by any mechanism in which civilised society should have control, such as budget rebalancing reduced the amount of wage mass, but therefore social contributions to employees and some other costs increased and this invention, which took place from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, were very skilled in taking over other ministries. What kind of savings are we talking about if we have one system of bribing top state officials who I'm guessing are doing the jobs of ministers who need to deal with politics and some other party matters, and that these and such close associates are being stimulated to work? Who will show those who have yet to learn to appreciate the work of useful, knowledge and profession in this society by allowing them to receive decent salaries, but in that rank under category nine – junior advisor, and who will give them any kind of guarantee that in this rank from nine to 13 categories of younger advisors, advisers and others will be able to advance to the category of advisors and five groups of positions where they will have even a decent salary? In this bill of law, I don't see such a guarantee and I don't see any stimulation for people who are employed with high-end expertise. I think the Law on State Administration, which would have to solve this part of the issue, is powerless, for example, to solve problems in the judiciary, where especially the poor are those who are underrated by the work. It's about professional associates who have passed a judicial exam, and you're a lawyer and you know what that means, and whose work, even with this bill, is not sufficiently valorised. I don't think that can be corrected by those special rules, which is the State Administration Act. The fact that you, as minister in charge of that part of the job, have given them the opportunity to improve the work of that category of employees, experience suggests that those who need to decide on it mostly think about themselves. That's why I asked the basic question - why do you say citizens and think about yourself? I am talking first of all about a policy that sees that even when it stimulates, it is the most stimulating of those who will allow for the stay of power, the presentation of those moves that do not improve the quality of life of citizens, but act as just. When you say it's always been like that, I won't be able to say no, it's not like that. He always seemed to be able to buy votes. You're a lawyer, and you know that even the votes and shopping were in the Cicero era, you had even money providers, who only had a penalty if they were caught blowing up money, and if they promised it, they weren't punished. But those who were caught blowing up money to buy votes, in the sources of over-the-counter, paid the fine for life. So it was always bought, but it used to be punished. Today, you don't punish the purchase of votes. Yes, Minister, there's always been road-building voters. And at that old Roman time at the time of the election, paths were made, but no roads were made so that at the entrance to Novi Sad you opened the loop and that people missed and strayed. Not because it's snowed, there's not even traffic signs to get into town, and there's talk of an open loop. I really want to believe that it is very important to achieve your ideas, intentions and ideas by remaining in power. But not just like that, but with some law being introduced to a good one, he must at least be a little good. Don't think that citizens will believe, as we don't believe, that this 1.6 billion mass will go on a balance of wages from the lowest to that middle layer of civil servants. Mr. Minister, you know as well as I do that the IMF only looks at a lot of pay and says it's yours to share. But you, as a government, must have a little more creativity, and because of the quality of the state administration that you want to secure that mass of profit, not that those who are in the highest position, the closest to you and the nearest fire, warm their hands the most. I suppose the best use of quality management would have to be for citizens? This law would have to sort it out in some way. The least I expect is that the amendment, which we have submitted to abolish Article 29, which will allow for the improvement of the position so disguised only by these people, will be accepted. Once again, in politics we must tell the truth. Then when we adopted an amendment to the DRI Payments Act, I was one of the few who did not vote in favour of the high salary of the state auditor, because there is no disproportionateity in this country between the responsibility and the function being carried out, the complexity of the job and the man doing the job. It doesn't matter who's in that position right now. In this country, the president of the state, Prime Minister of the Government, those who operate the judiciary and regulatory bodies we expect to introduce order must have the highest salary and all others count on their salaries. In this kind of demagogy, no one will give us the right if we say someone has a small salary, but they do some work out of enthusiasm. Yes, all of us in this business that is called - improving the lives of citizens, must manage a kind of love for this job and the real hope that we will change something. But we need to be both serious and responsible people, who have to say – your assistant can't have a higher salary than you do. In this assembly, one of the middle salaries cannot have the president of the Assembly, and those who only call themselves professional services have more salaries than those who need to be instructed to do jobs. The Financial Committee's expert service cannot have a higher salary than the President of the Assembly, which I receive as a member of the Finance Committee as an invitation to hold tomorrow's closed session of the Finance Committee to discuss the 2009 final account review, because it will be on the site at 1100 hours, and will hold an auditor of the press conference. What's the Finance Committee? What is this house where we bring the law today? Does he have the same rank of journalists, and those who are not respected, but the material will be delivered to them at the session itself? The measure of disrespect for institutions in this country has reached unacceptable limits. I ask you, by this law, that if you delete this provision, you will have people who will be willing to support you for equating the position of employees in the state service. Otherwise, this will be a law that only helps high positions in the state service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48619	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48620	I'd like to point out three things. First, I agree with you on demagogy. If you are against demagogy, then you should not have talked about not being able to enable employees to work overtime longer than those established by general regulations, but rather bringing people aside and now, let's say, in this state administration, and at all in Serbia's state administration, there may be 20 people who are ready and able to work the budget. I don't think there's enough of them professional. According to what you said, we would now, so that they would not work overtime, and work overtime and four to five hours a day, so they would finish their work about 22 or 23 hours tonight, and so were the previous days, you said non-demagogical – and why not let some young person come and work on that budget, write some numbers? Therefore, I agree with you that there should be no demagogy, but somehow you are not invited to it either. Second, you say we should be responsible. Responsible means knowing what you're talking about. If you're making an example of a state secretary who's a state official in office here, then you're not responsible. The Secretary of State is not a state official. And it has nothing to do with this story we're talking about here. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: You don't know the law, Minister. You can do as much research as you want. You don't know what the Secretary of State is, unfortunately. I'm saying the Secretary of State is not a state official in office. (Gordana Comić: Please refrain from direct communication. 100th time – State Secretary is not a state official in office. And I'm going to do it a thousand more times, and right now, I'm going to resign if the Secretary of State is in office. If you want to be responsible, then learn some of the law. Third thing, if you have submitted that amendment, I promise you here now, if the amendment is only to delete that Article 29, if there is nothing else, I promise you here I accept the amendment. I had a spare from the start. This part is a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, and from the very beginning, I've had a reserve on this member. You have convinced me by your discussion and I accept that amendment of yours. So the essence of this law will remain one, and that is to improve these with the lowest wages position and reduce the range. That was the rest of the law's idea. Now I expect you to maintain what you just said – that if I accept your amendment, you will give support for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48621	The Republic has a national envoy, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48622	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for accepting the amendment. There are no other elements except for the request to delete that member. How are we gonna train some people to do some work if we never give them a chance? So, some young people we have to take to temporary jobs to help, to learn that job. I'm telling you - the Secretary of State does not do budget-making work at the Ministry of Finance. He doesn't need overtime for this purpose. Article 34. The Law on State Administration says: "The government places the deputy minister, secretary of the ministry" etc., and this member has the title - positions in the government and other state bodies. I claim it's a valid law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48623	The MPs, the secretary of the ministry and the secretary of state are two different things. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48624	So, I said, the Secretary of State is what, therefore, this is according to the 2005 law, which was once a deputy minister, so the State Secretary is not a state official in office. State officials are in office in the ministries - Ministry Secretary, Assistant Minister, in the administration bodies of the ministry - directors of the management body, deputy director of the management body, in government services - director of the government service, his deputy or assistant, if any, and in special organisations - director, his deputy and assistant, if any. These are civil servants in position under the Law on civil servants and by the Law on State Administration. So what you've been talking about all this time, just, well, you've had to deal with the fact that you just don't know the matter. The Secretary of State is not a state official in office, I repeat, at the same time I resign if I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48625	The right to replica has a national MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48626	Mr. Minister, I don't know if it's more important here to show that you know the law or to listen to the reasoning and the 34th member I read to you – the position in the government and other state bodies, or the law that you're trying to introduce the right to overwork can be charged by the one who's in office. It is defined by Article 34, I will now bring you a copy of the law, but I read to you Article 34 – these are those which the Government is putting in place and these are the assistants of the minister, secretary of the ministry's office, assistant director of the body of the administration, director of a special organisation, deputy director and assistant director of the government service, deputy director and assistant director of the government's service, deputy and assistant secretary general of the government, republican public defender, his deputy, chief of the management district. I really don't know what's not clear to you here, because Article 29 says well, which you are now trying to change -- a state official who works in a position, it's a civil servant who works in a position and I'm reading to you what are the positions in the government and the state authorities. Whether you call him the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State, it's the executive who signs overtime. He can introduce himself. Please explain that to the state administration employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48627	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48628	Mrs. Tabakovic, why, with ease, I said I accept your amendment. Is that what vanity does not allow you to say that you have made a mistake? As Secretary of State, what is the Head of State? You don't know the basics. Secretary of State of what? Please give me your word now, if he can get it on the bill, here I am going to ask the Democratic Party to explain everything about the State Secretary. What's the secretary of state run? What does the secretary of state have to do with the secretary of state, Mrs. Tabakovic, except the secretary of the ministry gives him a warrant to pay his phone bill? They can have coffee. Here's what the gentleman says. I can have coffee. What does the secretary of state have to do with the secretary of the ministry, unless the secretary of the ministry orders him to pay the bill eventually, unless it goes through the joint administration? He doesn't even give a car, he gives it to the government. So, the Secretary of State, on which you based your entire discussion, is not a state official in office. I think there's 50 people sitting here in the O.R., 49 people know that. Now either you don't know, or it's hard for you to say – okay I was wrong, it's no shame not to know, you're an economist, you said it yourself, but it's kind of embarrassing when someone is having such a convincing discussion, because this isn't the first time, without knowing the basic set of matter they want to discuss. So the secretary of state is one thing, the secretary of the ministry is another. I don't know how to explain it anymore, to include the government site, to read every ministry's website, to pass laws, the Government's Rules of Procedure, how to explain to Mrs. Tabakovic the difference that the Secretary of State is one thing, the secretary of the ministry has absolutely nothing to do with each other, except that this is what Mr. fellow MP says, that they might drink coffee. Maybe it's the only thing they have in common that this guy over there gives him a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48629	Right on line, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48630	Mr. Minister, I would like to direct you to the objections brought by the Justice Department union, or the Justice Department, but first of all, I'm going to tell you one thing. Concealing that civil servants in a position will not get an increase in earnings, you are free to say that it is not true, because that is exactly the essence of this law, because civil servants are entitled to overtime, and jobs are where civil servants have the powers and responsibilities of managing and coordinating the work of a state authority. You're free to tell whatever story you want now, because that means they can give themselves a warrant for overtime, authorized, legally, maybe you don't know that. What's the big deal? That the Justice Union has highlighted exactly the example of its own, that "the state secretary, who belongs to the highest category of civil servant in the position, whose overtime is 1,045 dinars, besides the annual profit of a million and 740 thousand dinarnets, belongs to another 518,320 dinars annually. ''If the Justice Union guides you to illiterate people whose statements I have quoted, the question is, What kind of justice do we have? Given the European Commission's remarks on judicial reform and the government's impact on that, I'm still afraid I'm right, but let's not bother getting along with this. Here you are, and familiarize yourself with the union of judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48631	Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48632	Why don't we bother? Let's keep talking. Therefore, the State Secretary is not subject to this law, nor is the Law on State officials and deputies applied, nor is the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies applied. Therefore, the State Secretary and his salary are subject to the same law as my salary, which is the Law on the salaries of appointed and appointed persons in the Republic of Serbia or as its final name is already. Did someone, to make a joke with you, write it, so now you've turned out to be so little hurt here, that's not my problem. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not run by any unions, unions choose their union representatives. Here, if I were to ask myself, I'd have replaced a lot of union presidents right away, but then it wouldn't be a union, it would be a state base. (President: Mr. Minister, such statements are not allowed. That's all I wanted to say in a vivid way, that I could ask myself or that the general government was wondering. The government would then appoint the union presidents it wants. So, who runs the union in the judiciary I don't know. The judicial union that runs, I know Mrs. Slavica who appeared on television and a few other ladies who participated in these negotiations. They're all nice and honest people, fighting for their rights, that's their job. I didn't set them up, I didn't have anything to do with them. Besides, I'm the Minister of State Administration. I'm not the Minister of Labour. Anyway, let's get back to the Secretary of State. So, can I help you? You don't have to. You understood, then, that you were wrong. Okay. Now let me tell you, regarding the Justice Union, people are absolutely right. What's going on? The problem was in the government's regulation on the classification of jobs and objectively, according to that regulation, with the same expertise and the same experience were lower-ranked people working in the judiciary and we, and in the past government, corrected it and changed it, it was a union request and they were absolutely right. So, I'm going back to this. I accept your amendment, to prove to you that I had no intention of doing anything like what you said. I accept the amendment. If such an amendment exists, it will be adopted. This law aims to raise these most vulnerable categories slightly higher, so that this relationship is eventually 1:6 instead of 1:9. That's what the bill's all about. That part of the discussion you're having about hours is I just can't accept because it's not about you being an independent counselor, who you're extending your work to for more than 20 hours, you can't replace a man on the side, because he wasn't an independent counselor to replace himself so easily. That's why I can't accept your argument. As for the other things you said, these are things that more or less everyone in the O.R. thinks the same thing and there's no need to say about them in particular. If you want, I'll send you a copy of the state administration and civil servants' law, so I don't quote those provisions here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48633	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic has been re-declared. You have no more reason for replicas, it's all explained. You have no right to a replica. Ambassador Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48634	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see today that the minister is in a very good mood. He came here before New Year's Eve to kill a little time before this budget, and to cheer us up a little bit... (President: People's Parliament, please, with all due respect for the work of the National Assembly session. Please keep in mind the duties of the Rules of Procedure that accurately describe how we must treat one another. I don't think anything's scary. I can't see I said anything wrong. I was just saying... (President: I know you don't see it, but I see it and it's my job, so I'm warning you.) ) You don't see, because the minister has turned his back on you, and he's smiling and smiling, and he's in an extraordinary mood, which I noticed is good, let's see the smiling minister in parliament. Is that a terrible thing to say? And you frowned like you were going to shoot someone. I don't know what's wrong with you, ma'am, if I'm your... (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you. I answered the word, and you immediately started with the bottom of the first sentence. (President: Messenger of the People, I give you the first warning. I'm really asking you, you are the vice president of the assembly. (President: People's MP, you are required to listen to the president's warnings. Look at the stenogram, and you'll see what I'm responding to. To you, as well as to any other MP who, by his verbal description, violates the reputation of the congregation. I reminded myself of the obligation not to do so and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that prescribe it for us. You continue, I warn you not to do so. So, the topic of the agenda, as creative as I know you can, but with a reminder of what we are obliged to do in the congregation. Here you go. ) You know what, I have no intention of pummeling anything with you and of using my time to express what I have reported. You do your thing and I do mine, of course. I think it's a good thing that some of the lowest layers of employees in the administration want to raise wages, but that's not enough, that's so small. Our administration has 17, 18, 19, 20,000 dinars and people can't survive. I remember the driver in the departments, by the municipalities, who drive at 17, 20 grand pay. They can't survive physically. That they can't survive. Here, someone now remembered them at the end of the year to suggest that next year will be better. With such an increase totaling 1 billion and 600,000 dinars across Serbia, they will not be better off. We've already heard a hint of electricity collection this morning, where EPS people are asking to be 60% so they can do business, and by doing that, all of this is going to fall into the water. I want to discuss a problem that no one solves in this country. I remember in this House we discussed an airport director, and I think his name was Kristo. Bojan Kristo, that's right. He, for example, had two million salaries and one minister here defended it as normal, and he had over two to three million in incomes. Let him be the big manager. He has a hundred salaries of an administrative worker in the Assembly, a man who works in the administration of the state, 100 salaries receives one man. Imagine now that you have thirty directors of various levels around him. They're not like him, but they're around here somewhere. Imagine if these several directors would receive the salary, cost this country as a whole Serbian parliament and still a real loss. Imagine that JAT director who made the loss, now he's resuscitating, 51m euros, and he's raised a loan to pay off, and how much he's had a month's salary. About 15,000 euros. Who rewarded him for that? How many dozen executives are there? How many agency directors in the country? How many agencies there are that are nothing but mushrooms. Wherever you enter, they say, go to the agency first, pick up the phone and come here and come there. So, this administration, which is extremely big for a small, tiny state like Serbia, for a sudden economy that is on its knees, for an economy that cannot fill this budget, but has to take commercial loans to survive and lead to the end of the budget year. Now imagine how few people work in product occupations relative to services and administration, and how many unnecessary administrations there are in this country. We're saying everything now, we're going to cut this down, and this same parliament, the ruling majority recently voted here in a day of community police who hired 5,000 people and now no one knows how to explain what these people are doing, they have nowhere to sit, they have no car, they have nowhere to warm up, they have no conditions and they give notice that they exist somewhere, and they're going to show up somewhere, but they don't know how or how. Five thousand people were admitted to the administration at once. I'm very sorry that our minister is working so hard. He said he worked till ten o'clock. I would be happy if Minister Markovic had less to do, less to expose himself to efforts. Here, he deals with Kursumlia, for days how to kidnap power in New Serbia there and coalition partners, and violates court decisions, violates laws, violates everything and tells them, just take it, that's the government's position, and I support you. That was also recently in the King. Minister, don't waste your energy irrationally. You try, someone gives you an assignment and boast to the commanding officer that you've taken several municipalities. It has taken several municipalities and you work in a variety of illegal ways to make these municipalities lose power, that they lose the power that the people wanted and chose in that city. Is it possible in one town that someone wins and has the most councillors and now they have no councilman left? Why? Someone comes in and brings them to the M.P., listens, arrests, holds, and then says, "Your committee group has to cross here and here, if you think you're gonna get that, too." They're miserable what they're going to do, they're not going to, and of course it's starting. Here, in Raca, from the mayor all in a row, everything went to a regional center that was being created. Why? He says Jura won't come, he won't sign the contract unless you get there. Does the local administration serve such things or does it serve other things to do? That's what we need to see now. How does the administration increase? He says, "Come over to our place, we'll give you 20 jobs." How? You five get twenty workers. Mr. Minister, it's not right what's done and it's just a distraction. I'll give you examples, names, whatever you want. What you did in Kursumlia today is against the law. You called on the phone and said, "Today you called on the phone and said, "Just keep going, I'm behind it." What court, you literally said, what court, the court doesn't matter. The court ruled, but that's no good. So let's not get eyes on the people now that this lowest administration, these officers who have 17-18 thousand salaries, are going to get a slight increase and they're going to get better. How many, I repeat, unnecessary party administrations are being received? Let's think of some economic diplomacy. Are you familiar with this economic diplomacy that works parallel to our embassies and how much it costs? How much are the leases on the world's big metropolis and how many clerks have gone there to work? Are some people who worked here and had some problems, that they were offered to keep quiet and go to that administration there and sit in some embassies? I'll give you names and last names, if necessary, and tell you how much it costs, who got apartments and everything, just to shut up, so some problems don't start. Is someone, Mr. Minister, in this state administration responsible today, when news was released that Hashim Thaci, that European institutions have launched certain actions against drug trafficking, trafficking in human organs, killings to be taken by state authorities. Now, who took down that Thaci's red Interpol warrant and whose warrant? Serbia issued an APB for Thaci, I remember perfectly. Now, he's gone. Who ordered her to back off and remove that BOLO? Who? Are we going to negotiate with Thaci now? Is the Constitution in breach? Does this parliament know that someone told Hashim Thaci - you're free, you can walk around the world, you can be prime minister, you can do whatever you want. (Chairman: National MP, please, on the agenda. So, you're bringing about Hashim Thaci in connection with the proposal for a bill on the salaries of the governors. ) The number of administrations is extremely high in relation to this economy that it cannot endure. Mrs Tabakovic spoke here of a problem which is very interesting and should not close her eyes to this problem that is very important. Take the last five governments, and in today's, how many state secretaries have increased? Here, from the previous government, from the one before her... (President: People's MP, we've made it clear, the Secretary of State is not the subject of this law, so I ask you on the agenda. ( ) How many assistants have increased, and how many counselors? How much does that cost financially? You know how much that is? I guarantee it now, like this, blankly, three times. Do you know how much money that is? Three times. Sure, three times. Here, get that information out of the government. Is it possible for this economy to endure this? We sink every day. Here, the budgeting next year is going to be less and less of an estate. The companies are closing, shutting down, there's no one. Is this relationship between the number of employees who work and receive salaries and the number that is unemployed, and the number of pensioners, impossible to maintain in office? At least 300,000 people, Mr. Minister, have to be hired to receive a regular salary, to pay their commitments, to make the state function. Experts who did the analysis concluded that 300,000 new jobs had to be filled, so that this country could function as well. That's why the president also promised 200,000 new jobs in the campaign. Has there been an employment of 200,000 people in Serbia? It's not. One hundred thousand were fired. How do we survive next year? Three billion were borrowed from the IMF for the budget. Commercial loans were taken. Now it counts for next year's sales of Telecom. What about the other year? Telecom's in advance, and when it's sold, it won't do any good. Therefore, a small state with so many employees, 600,000 people regularly receive a normal salary in Serbia, 400,000 go to work and receive wages, and over half a million people are no longer aware of whether they are working, whether they are not working, whether they are receiving pay and whether they have obligations. No one meets their obligations to the state. Now I'm interested in how can we present such poor people, for example, one natural resource, such as optical cables by corridors, Nuba Investu, which makes 18m euros a month and over 200m euros a year in transit? So telecommunications and others are using the optics that will be placed through Serbia. Are we so rich that we say to some owner from Slovenia and some of our bosses here – here are the people 200m euros, we don't need anything. Do we know how much money left in the privatisation of Zagreb Bank? Do we know in the privatisation of Delta how much money has gone, not to Serbia, but to another country? Do we know how much we lost, for example, at the port of Belgrade? The president of the state said on TV that the state lost two billion euros in Belgrade, I remember perfectly, and three hundred million euros in the Usce complex. Are we such a wastelander to say that we're not interested in it, that it goes away? And that's why we're going to take the loan, of course, and live off the loan, and live from month to month. Here, this budget year is gonna get through it somehow. New year's coming. The new budget promises nothing good. These days, plans are being made, Serbia's local administration will receive 1,700 apartments immediately, in Belgrade, 5,000 apartments. It'll all be built, you'll all get it, and nobody says how or where. Mr. Minister, the three construction seasons have passed this government, only one left in the spring to come, the last. We hope for the last of this government's career, but the last in office is certain. The results are extremely bad. Now we have to do some spectacular things, tell some stories, cheat, spill from hollow to empty, entertain the people to make the people feel that they have some hope. It doesn't make you live. Is there a possibility that Serbia may live a little, that the Serb village may live a little, that agriculture may live a little, that it should start making money in Serbia? You know, as a man who runs local administrations, no single company works in certain municipalities today. How do they survive these municipalities? Here, yesterday, the poorest municipalities had a meeting with the head of state and some ministers and they promised them a lot, and what of them would be fulfilled, from which the funds and where the item is in the budget, I watched the budget very carefully for the next year, it is gone. Are we still gonna let these guys make as much money as those in Flight Control? Do you know that in Flight Control, the director has a salary of 20 and some thousand euros, that there are receipts of maybe 30,000 euros, to throw away, to raise 70m euros, to build a administrative building, to shine everything, to shine, etc.? Because of his overruns over Serbia, which he is charging fatly, this Serbia has been killed by peasants in the clear. There is no fund to be made, to be said – gentlemen from Flight Control, it is nice that you have big salaries and that you make millions of dollars, but spare some of the funds because of your overflights, when anti-urban protection facts are banned, this Serbia is completely killed by the city and the peasants. There's nothing to do with that. It's been said that aviation protects it, the most modern method, and it has nothing to do with it. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that in every local administration, in the same municipalities, each year floods make rhumbs and costs this much? Is it possible to make a rash in one of the hairs? That's a few hundred yards out there left to finish. In one of the New Markets, there was a rash. It takes a mile or two and there's no damage. In one Prepolje, two, three kilometers of embankment, than every year we pay millions of dollars in damages. You run local self-government. Why don't you talk to people? Why aren't you looking for funds in the government? Is it such a problem to make a rash? Is it possible in Smeder to raise the level of defensive embankment, to dovetonate there, and to no longer think what the level of the Danube is? It's possible, but there's no one to run it. Is it possible that all the funds that Mobtel's funds were spent on that need in the election campaign? Yes, it's true, and that's how it happened. That's why I'm telling you in the municipalities a non-domestic business. Why? Because you, Mr. Minister, enter an extremely large amount of local authorities and work with your parties and party influence there is simply crucial. That can't happen if we think we're decentralisation power. We don't need decentralisation across the region, we can decentralised the government through local administration, that what's being earned there remains part of it and that purposefully spends on what people think is most necessary to do in those areas. Therefore, you too, Minister, must change. You must change some of your habits, and parliament will certainly help as much as it can. Don't be dissatisfied with the opposition in Serbia, which is extremely constructive and that tolerates you a lot of the things that happen at the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48635	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48636	So, Mr. Ilic, it's been a pleasure, as always, to listen to your discussion, because it simply covers a wide range of subjects. Of course, I can only limit myself to what it has to do with the ministry that I'm headed for, unfortunately there's nothing here that I can tie to this law that we want to change the coefficients into eight paying groups, that's the agenda point. You didn't do that, but you did other things. First, I'm sorry now, Mr. Rade Obradovic left, he said no one has seen the budget before. Only you saw the 2011 budget, kindly please show it to us. Since you said you were looking at the 2011 budget. Show us the budget, show the finance minister that budget, show the public the budget because no one saw it, but it doesn't matter. We agree, there's a budget somewhere probably. Secondly, as former minister of infrastructure, you ask me why there is no embankment in Serbia? I don't know if you're kidding me or if you know what my job is? I'm the Minister of State and Local Self-Government. My ministry does regulations, only deals with regulations. We don't affect the work of local self-government, we don't build embankments, we don't pave the streets. What do we have to do with these things? You say, "Smederev's rush." In Smederev, the mayor was Mr. Sasha, I don't remember his last name, you were the minister of infrastructure, you were in his campaign, I remember, a man became mayor and you two didn't make that mess well? What does that have to do with the Minister of State Administration and local self-government? And done. Here, Minister Ilic says it isn't. It's a strange discussion of yours. Except you've seen a budget none of us have seen here, you're saying there's five thousand municipal police officers employed. Mr. Ilicu, 250 municipal police officers have been employed. How do you get up and say that there are thousands of municipal police officers employed again, when 250 are employed throughout Serbia. The results are excellent in Belgrade. Local self-government doesn't have to. The strawberry won't, it doesn't have to. We gave the cities a chance to take the municipal order into their own hands. We gave them a strong instrument – to make life in cities nicer, neater, better. Will the mayors take advantage of it or not, what does it matter, Mr. Ilichu, I have to do with it? I believe the mayor of Belgrade will take advantage of that. If there's a problem in another town, I don't know, it's not mine to follow that problem. So, I repeat, what you said is also false, as you didn't see the budget, because the budget wasn't done and you couldn't see it. You didn't look at the 2011 budget, because budget doesn't exist. It's so untrue that five thousand people were employed, when five thousand people were not employed. 250 people training for a communal officer has just passed. A huge number of them are already employees of the local authorities, and I don't know how you can think of saying that, but this is someone watching, not that anyone is watching this assembly. He's looking at the public of this assembly. We can't say everything we like, get up and say everything we think we should say. Someone's watching this, Mr. Ilich. What are people gonna think? Now it's not clear to you how it's possible that someone in a town had one number of councilmen, so now there are no more councilmen. Same as the SRS was 84, so it's gone, same as the DSS had, so now there's one less. I can't figure out how you can discuss it when you know there's a Constitutional Court decision. I warned one year of every possible day that the Constitutional Court would make such a decision. The decision was made on the basis of the initiative of Tomislav Nikolic, your coalition partner, who has a parliamentary group solely because of the separation of one number from here and moved there and has never been to the elections as a party. Now you're getting up, for the second time, so you're paying me some respects. What do we have to do with whether Tomislav Nikolic is here or here, is there anyone in the local parliament here or there? How can I have anything to do with that? Unlike the Government earlier, I even changed the Law on Local Self-Government, so I asked that disputed mandates be decided exclusively by the courts in the Republic, so that the minister would not decide, so they told me that I was not, if you excuse me, normal -- how can I give up these powers to distribute mandates? I said, I don't want that power. That was the most angry of my party colleagues. That's where we give power to the courts. The courts in RS decide on mandates. Now tell me what the problem is: when the courts rule in favour of this party or that party? When they ruled from case to case, what do we do, "not by grandmother or uncle," but by law. So the law says, so will Kursumlia, as it was in the King, as it will be in every other municipality in Serbia. Believe me, I have no interest in who's gonna be in the mayor's seat. As Minister of Local Self-Government, I have no interest. The DS government, I think, in 120 municipalities in Serbia. I don't care if it's 121 or not. You guys haven't been one of the key people in ten years. I can't believe what kind of discussion you're having. You are dramatically disturbed that the directors of public enterprises have a salary of 250,000 dinars. How many of your staff, how much did Mr. Sarancic have to pay in "The Railways of Serbia"? How come it didn't occur to you to say that his pay of these martyrs who knock here from morning till night was nicked? You didn't have such a nice comparison then, poetically. How much did the director of "The Way of Serbia" have for you? Like you weren't sitting in government all those years, like you weren't one of the leaders. You're telling me, which minister, whose office is the political, party member of the main board, and you're the president of the government party, you're complaining why it's in public enterprises like that? I agree with you. If I were to ask myself, we would have public enterprises that were monopolies who had the position of civil servants in the position of the first category. I'm the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mr. Ilic, or as you once told me, I'm a minister. I don't even know how you got the idea for one little minister to try to pass on such big ideas. Unlike you who were ministers, I am a minister. I'm asking you, Mr. Ilic, since you've been in politics for so long -- why didn't you do something about these issues? In accordance with my powers, I have proposed to this government, and this government has agreed to pay on boards, which at the time when you ruled were 200-250 thousand for nothing, because the board member, by my deep conviction, sits down and mostly does nothing, I personally suggested it, and now it's 32,000 and something. So, at least I did something. Since I'm a minister, it's a huge advance. I think you really said everything, for example, that I called Kursumlia today; that's just as true, as it is that the municipal employs 5,000 people and that you were looking at the budget of the Republic of Serbia today. Have the citizens assess whether they'll believe you. So, Mr Ilic was looking at today's budget of the Republic of Serbia, which does not exist for 2011. So it wasn't done at all. He's not in writing. Only Mr. Ilic read it by some miracle. As true as it is, it's so true that 5,000 municipal police officers were employed and it's just as true that I called Kursumlia. I have no way of answering this discussion of yours. Your discussions, Mr. Ilic, are your problem and your hope that no one will answer when you discuss it. We sat together in the government, don't try to say things that I know as much as you do. Three times the number of ministerial assistants, not true. I've been doing the Ministry Act, and I know what people have divided as sectors of the ministry. It's just not true. Is there too much? There's too much, Mr. Ilich. There was too much in the government where you sat and in this government where I sit too much. And I think it's a very big problem and we need to face a series of problems. One of the biggest problems is not the state administration, because we're talking about the state administration that has 27,000 people all the time. Our problem is 500,000 people who are on the budget and more than 500. Our problem is public agencies, which aren't even on the budget. Our problem is public enterprises, not to talk about government all the time, and it turns out that when I come here, I have to answer the question why has an agency. How many times as a minister, the creator of the coalition agreement of the previous two governments before this, have you opposed the laws set up by public agencies? Zero, you never told the government -- wait for the people, don't start the agency, it's the affairs of the state administration and can be done by the state administration. You didn't say that once. I said, I can tell you all this because I told you, all of what I'm saying, I'm talking ten times up in the government itself. You can't tell me any of this, because you're one of the creators of Serbia that we live in today, and you're very much responsible for living the way we live. Once again, please share that budget with us who do not have that vision so that we know what will be written in the budget that is not written.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48637	Right on the line, Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48638	Mr. Minister, here you are now reading a lesson and giving me a lecture like I'm little Dickie and I don't understand anything and I don't know anything and it's an honor to you. Do you know that many of your colleagues, I don't say all of them, but one part of your colleagues I know perfectly and with whom I communicate have shown me the draft budget for next year, which was to be adopted and delivered to Parliament today? He says there's nothing we can do. Why can't we do that? This is why they show me certain items. Do you think we MPs or party heads, heads of Parliament groups, don't even know what's going on in the government? We know how you breathe, what you communicate with each other, where you meet. I know exactly where the ministers were on the eve of the King's earthquake, some of them. How in the King's name do they show up after an hour? Who they sat with, what restaurants, who sang to them, who played them, we know everything. You think we're little Dickies, that we don't know anything, well, you're so naive and you have no idea. Half the people in BIA give us data, half the people in the police bring us data, give us every day, bury us with data, and say, "Help me with something if you can, this is not good." That's why I'm telling you. It's true that I've worked hard, and it's true that I didn't finish during my term of office. It is impossible and it is true that the rest of Vojvodina's money has asked to be transferred to the Vojvodina Capital Fund, and it is true that it is not further done, because it was spent in the campaign, because the decision was made that these funds could no longer work from Belgrade, but from the Vojvodina capital fund, and that is true...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48639	Time. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48640	Mr. Ilichu, I'll give you a chance, because I'll mention you again. Is that how it's supposed to be? You're not little Dickie, I said that. You called me a minister, not me, and it's not a local self-government minister's problem at all, some there, no matter. I don't think I'm much of a minister at all, I'm honest with you. Let's face it, it's a small ministry, so if we look at the minister, a small ministry -- a minister. I'm not mad at you at all. I've been sitting with you in the government, and I can tell you that I don't remember anything ugly in our work together, but it can't be logical for you to ask me why there weren't any embankments done, and now you're saying yourself that you've been doing nothing wrong, because it's your jurisdiction, and you're asking me why I'm not doing the dikes. What do I have to do with the bumps? The entire budget of the ministry is 400 million dinars. We don't do that, Mr. Ilich. I don't know how you get out, and now you've really said one set of amazing things. Now let me tell you about the King. I see you know everything. I was called by one when I was on Teleton, and I don't know if it's someone you're communicating with. He told me not only that the ministers just an hour before the earthquake, it is suspicious, I have to admit, he called me and said, "let's just say this isn't natural at all, but let's put the cameras on the mouth of Ibra and see how that earthquake came about." There are stories and you fit into one of these stories with these insinuations – where the ministers came from just an hour before the earthquake in the King. Connect to this, maybe he has some information too, this one that says the earthquake isn't natural, but that it's something very strange. If you're being captured by the B.I.A., I'm absolutely not interested. I'm going to try to add this up to some serious discussion. One, I repeat, I didn't call anyone in Kursumli, none of you said when I refused the Shop, when it was, to say what kind of pressure, no one to come out and say, "How did the government of the coalition that I belong to change in the Shop?" How come I didn't do the same thing in there that you're imputing me to do? I think it's the DSS. I could've been there a lot easier if I wanted to do it. It's even been three months there, but I said, "Wait, people have established power, and then it's been three months, so it's also from the field, as you now call me, what they call you, and they tell you all sorts of things, that's what they used to call me, and they used to say things to me. I asked them -- people, are there most of them here, what can we do if there's a majority of them? As for the Book of Commerce, it will also be for the Qur'umli, be sure, the same will be for the Qur'umli. It's like the King's first time, when I refused, and I even wanted to write criminal charges, that was the second time. And for the first time by law and twice by law. You can't, Mr. Ilic, believe me, from the first day I became minister to today, both in that and in this government, same treatment in all cases. You have the Ministry of Opinion site, the interpretation of the law, always the same. I don't see a single reason that because of any bullet or anyone, anything at all, so I'm going to tear down what I've been doing for three years, to embarrass myself, to tell the assistant minister -- write it down differently, don't do it right. I have no reason to do that. My former assistant is now the judge of the Constitutional Court, but he was assistant to Zoran Loncar, so he was an assistant before Zoran Loncar Rodoljub Sabic, my assistant second Jasmine Benmansur, was assistant to Zoran Loncar. I think your coalition brought her, your first. My third assistant, your coalition brought him back while I was in opposition. I have no intention of doing that. Don't fall for it, call you from downstairs, because I've been spoken to by the people of Kursumlia at the Sava Center and I said, "Okay, come with me now to the Ministry and the people came with me to the ministry, sit in the ministry and get answers to questions, so they said, "Okay, it's okay." Sit down at my chief's office, all the papers, the materials, the whole case taken out and showed me. A colleague from the SRS with a colleague from the DS tied to another municipality, to Surduke. People came in and they think we're hiding something, that we're supporting the president of the Surdulci municipality. The day-day our fellow MP from the DS is angry with me because he thinks I support the President of the Surudics Municipality. I don't care about the support of any president of the municipality. It's simple, the law is the law. Now I offer you, take the cases you want, including King and Kursumli, give the team from your party, parties, coalitions, from what you will, come to the ministry, sit down for five days. Every case in three years I'll give you my hand to tell me where I didn't do it by law. That goes for you, for the SRS, for every party here. So once you find out that it wasn't done exclusively in accordance with the law. Did the court make judgments that didn't match? I think it happened in a small number of cases, about five percent. I followed that when there was a break-up between Radical and this party. I followed the statistics, and I came to the conclusion that the law was carried out in 95% of the cases very well. We had a problem with the court in Negotin, who did not want to make a decision, but allowed the electoral commission to enforce the law, to abuse the law. The public prosecutor must file criminal charges against a member of the electoral commission. The municipal electoral commission didn't take it. That's how the government fell into Negotin. I can't solve it, it's a question of all of us here, we're such a political elite. Don't let God in one municipality die two councilmen or one side, whoever you are, whoever I tell you right now, that's my experience for these three years, not to vote the end of the mandate and to confirm the new list. It's us, it's our political culture. In local self-government, he's nowhere near as he is in this House. There's no gentleman's agreement, no respect in local self-government. If he can fool you by not fulfilling his legal obligation, he'll cheat on you that way. This was done by election commissions involving all parties present. We're all responsible for that. I guarantee you, as Minister, I will never break the law, nor have I broken it so far in such a way as to knowingly push someone into power. That's not how I want to think. Here, the offer stands, whenever you want, you, anyone here, as long as they want, don't need the information law, don't need anything, come to my office across the street. The Secretary of State is sitting there. You can sit for a month. I'll give you all the papers from the first to the last day of my term. You didn't say anything about the communal. You said here in front of Serbian citizens that 5,000 people were employed. I'm telling you 250 people went through training, and you said 5,000 were employed. There won't be 5,000 people. It will be decided by the cities, how busy they will be, and the 5,000 inhabitants will be one policeman. That turns out to be about 350 cops for Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has residents almost like all other cities when they gather together. Like Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, like everyone else together. You all know that. King, Chachak has about a hundred and a few thousand. Tell me, where did you find 5,000? In Jagodina, which will save on the municipal police, because they have no communal measures, there no one throws anything, there everything is great, perfect, it's a special city? There should be 12 municipal police officers in Jagodina, and they will achieve an enormous savings on those 12 people, and it's an honor to them. Any mayor can choose to make savings if he thinks he'll save. We've only given you the opportunity to build a communal police force. No one has to make it at all. I don't make anyone make communal police. Whoever wants it, make it real. I deeply believe she's useful. I like to live in a city where there will be more order. I like to finally solve the question of why someone drives cars at 44, 45th block. I know regular police can't do that. I had a meeting today with the regular police. The top police was, not counting the police minister and director, all the other most responsible people related to problems in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. It's simple, regular police don't have the capacity. There are no people who want to get a job with the police, there's a small salary and there's bad conditions. The communal police come to them as their younger brother, they're welcome. It'll help them with a thousand things. People are lucky to be there. It's okay, you don't think I should. I don't want to go into that discussion with you. You have your opinion, I have mine. You've been mayor of a big city and you've got a different view of things. I can't discuss it with you right now, but I can discuss that you didn't tell the truth when you said we hired 5,000 people when 250 of them were employed. I'm just sorry. Sometimes we smile and joke, and sometimes it gets some kind of discussion that's kind of unnecessary. I suppose it's not your wish, and it's especially not my desire to be offended in any way, but sometimes I get distracted by that kind of discussion. You may want to point out something as a problem, but use words that don't suit you. For no reason are you able to charge and impose something that has nothing to do with what's true. I don't believe it's any evil intention, but I have to defend myself against it, because what you and I are talking about is looking at a million more people or 500 thousand people, or 200 thousand people, look at people who aren't in matter. If I don't say what I said, they might think 5,000 people are actually employed somewhere. We would save a huge amount of time if we could bring your discussion down to what's fact. I'm not slow at all, you're criticizing and it's your right, but to narrow down to what are facts or at least a good part of the fact, and not to be so broad and so flat that I have to answer, that we don't know whether this is a correct discussion or whether you and I are going below the level of correctness. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48641	Mrs. Veronica Radeta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48642	I would remind Mr. Minister that he is also part of the regime that allowed Tomislav Nikolic to legalise the theft of the SRS mandate and therefore sign a petition these days, collect signatures to change the constitution, allegedly due to the number of MPs. It's clear to everyone that it's a substitute for all possible thesis. We don't have a problem right now. The number of MPs is our biggest problem. We have no problem with tycoons, no corruption, no crime, no mafia, no incompetent authority. It is clear to us that Nikolic and Vucic approach the regime that wants from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from the preamble to erase what guarantees that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. A further step is the federalisation of Serbia, etc. As for Mr Velimir Ilic's debate, who has condemned the theft of his mandate at the local level, is absolutely right, but his principle is little praise. It's amazing that he could be in a coalition with a party that took the mandates of the SRS at a republican level, and he's bothered by something like that at a local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48643	National MP Dragan Shormaz, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48644	I'll just say two things. First, to be clear, at the time when you were sitting with Mr. Ilic in the government at the time there was a radio key in Smederev on the Danube, which is very important for everyone, and even the Belgraders should know, it was done to an old port that today used by the U.S. still, but when the second government was made, where you were, remember that the minister without a job, was actually in charge of the NIP, Mr. Gilas, then he took the money provided for the completion of the work on Kei in Smederevo, transferred to Zemun and photographed himself in the campaign when he finished Zemunski Kei, which served him for his campaign in the fight for mayor. Remember all that. That's when the money was taken off the Smederov. Fortunately, we ended up in Smederev with the performers, so they wouldn't interrupt the work and it was done as far as it was. Since then, however, the mayor is from the DS, the Ashov has not been buried in the country in the place. That's the part where the city center is threatened because nothing's been done. So much so that you know who did what. That'll be the DS problem. The city board wasn't there either, for him to be mayor, to be imposed on him by the presidency. You all know that very well. Now we have this result that a man only takes care of his company, doesn't take care of the city, and that's why nothing's been done. However, there is one thing that surprised me – that you, Minister, on 15 December, say there is no budget for 2011, that no one has seen it, that it is not done, that it does not exist in writing. Look at the stenographic notes. He was already supposed to be here in the process. That's what's terrible. That's what's not good and what's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48645	Mr. Ilicu, I think the minister has been extremely reasonable to answer some of your remarks. Mr. Spasojevic and you're registered. Will you or Mr. Spasojevic? You can't do it on the same basis as both of us. Identify only who I will give the word and the right to replica from the parliamentary group Whether you have the right to a replica, according to the Rules of Procedure, I should decide. [[Velimir Ilic, from the place: I want to use the replica.]] So that I may decide, please identify yourself, will you or Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48646	Mr. Minister, you set up what Mr. Shormaz was just saying. The dikes are made, but if the rash doesn't end, if it stays 10 meters, it has no effect on what's been done 10,000 meters, if it's not finished. Because the money was spent, I repeat, on the campaign. They've been transferred. Mr. Minister, I'm in the government, maybe you remember perfectly, once you discussed when the works were interrupted on the Guard tunnel, and I said they'd be dead there. Because the works in the tunnel are interrupted at a time when they can't stop. Two days later, two workers were killed. They begged me from the government not to ask for a stenogram and not to file a criminal case against those who had abolished the funds because it brought down the ceiling and killed two people. It is true that I have complained about the mandates that are being taken, but I would like to go to Rač together, so that we should call the committees and hear what Dinkic told them at the meeting – if you do not cross where I tell you to, there is no firm, there is no company that will come, it does not come to your city company with investments, etc. They did what they did, of course. Why didn't you respect the court's decision in the King? I objected – where did you scratch out Maja Gojkovic to bring her to the Kingdom and build her the largest committee group? A woman has never been to the King. I've never seen her in any campaign in my life. You asked me about Charančić's salary – 160,000 dinars. For the salary of the travel director – about 150,000. And today's director receives so much. You can check it out. And your last name Markovic in the railroad receives about 160,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48647	Time. It's been two minutes. Mr. Minister, come in. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48648	Mr. Ilic, here's the thing. So, I'm just telling you one thing. You could, with your influence and your power in those two governments, have once and for all resolved the question of these salaries. I'm here to defend the bill on changing the coefficients for eight paying classes, for eight groups. You come out, answer the word and honor my wages in public systems. I really can't understand you. So you were the creator of two governments, to get back to square one, you were the creator of two governments, and you complained about a system in Serbia where you had the power to change, because you were really one of the leaders of those two governments. I am not a signator, I am the Minister of Local Self-Government, and I have come to defend a law that is a consequence, as colleagues say - a minister. As an opposition, you can say that, but that you respect me for why I didn't do something, that's not right. Then you tell me why I didn't do the dikes. You mentioned Smeder. Mr. Ilic, it's just as if you asked Gordana Komic why she didn't do the dikes. Is it possible that you're pretending so much that you don't know or really don't know? I don't know what you're trying to do. I think you're pretending you don't know. What does the Minister of Local Self-Government have to do with the creation of the Trespass in Smedereva? I don't want to stay here to defend myself. So you wanted to open up a broad political discussion, but I don't want you putting those things on the line for me. I have the right to defend myself. So I'm not responsible for any rash in Serbia. In Serbia, they are hundreds of years late and are made by resolute ministers. The Resort Minister was one time you were in two governments. If you have done them, it is an honor, and if you have not, you have not. Let me get one more thing straight. You have now set out a framework – this is not done, this is done, etc. That's not correct. That's what you should say when there are ministers who can answer you. So when there's a minister who can answer you, you tell him. I didn't notice you ever say anything to him. Tell him if you think he didn't do something, he'll answer you, because he knows. This is how it's gonna turn out, when you mention four or five resistors, that I don't want to defend my colleagues, and I just don't know the matter. And I don't know if you know her, too. Are you telling the truth here, or is it just your flat, or has someone misinformed you? When you said these few things that, by chance, I know, I see you're completely misinformed. That's why I think our discussion is generally barren. She may be interesting, but she's generally harmful. And it's not even interesting. Maybe someone who likes to see things like that, but, in general, here, says a colleague, she's not even interesting. I agree with her. That's why I wanted to simply ask you to let us bring it down into those frames. As for the Kings, I no longer know how many times I've heard of Maja Gojkovic. What do I have to do with Maya Gojkovic? As for the bullet, you can come to me, I'll give you all the papers. I promise, all the papers. And for Kurzumli and for the King. Here, I suggest you invite the cameras to come and shoot when you get to my ministry. You'll get coffee. I gave hospitality to everyone who asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48649	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48650	Madam President, I had no intention of answering, but as an MP from the King, when the King is mentioned this many times, I think it's time for you to give me your word. I'll do it very briefly. Mr. Minister, regarding the Constitutional Court, we can interpret it in one way or another, whether retroactivity can be applied to something that has passed, you know that well. I'm sure you'll say, when a law is passed retroactively, application is wrong. That's one thing. When you refer to the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, we had a paradoxical situation here three days ago. The biggest hat in the judiciary was here, Nata Mesarovic, and practically knocked down what the Constitutional Court said – that all the judges of the unselected have the right to a constitutional appeal. She claimed it wasn't like that. Then don't talk about the Constitutional Court when it suits you, and when it doesn't suit you, then under the rug or some of your satellites come along, so this parliament here, which is the biggest home, is deluded and practically mocked. Not so much about the Constitutional Court when you know that in the last, chosen solutions to the Constitutional Court, not this part of the hall, but your part of the hall, laughed at the candidates who were proposed. I spoke to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Trust me, they have the same opinion. Don't let us defile anything and talk bad about the Constitutional Court. That's what I really don't want. As for the Kings, you know that lawsuits have been filed and that we wait for the outcome. Don't talk about it here in public like it's a done deal. It's not a done deal. Or you might know it's a done deal, but we don't know it. When it comes, we will say, yes, the court has said it in order. So far, for us, it's only relevant that the King's government has established the police because it has banned the opposition, that is to say, the opposition's committees. It's for us a practical condition. When the decisions of the courts come, we can talk. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48651	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48652	I disagree, Mr. Savior. First of all, I don't agree with the Constitutional Court. And you and I both know that and, I don't know how that discussion went, but generally, for us lawyers and politicians, the Constitutional Court is the first and last. That's my attitude, who has a different attitude of sin, no matter who it belongs to. Now, that's about whether or not I'm calling, I'm going to call the Constitutional Court and when I like it and when I don't like it. The Constitutional Court's decision on mandates is excellent, in my opinion, related to the development of democracy in Serbia and useful. That's my opinion. As far as I'm concerned, that Constitutional Court decision has caused so much trouble in my work that I can't describe it to you. However, the Constitutional Court's decision is irrefutable and I think we agree here. Now for the King, Mr. Savior, we've talked a lot about the King. So we've been making arguments, interpreting all the laws, etc. What's going to happen to the lawsuits that are being filed, that's now this other topic, and we now have two situations. You're talking about this new situation now. I think Mr. Ilic talked all the time about this previous situation that led to the establishment of the current government. Did the police have to intervene? (President: I just want to say that no situation has anything to do with the law that makes us here today. I agree. Here, I'm done. It had to establish the state that according to the existing decisions of the Administrative Court, which is regularly responsible for the regular state of affairs. She's established that condition. After that, the question of those other mandates opened up that, as you know, I still don't know anything, because we talked about it because it went directly to court. Whatever happens, that's how it's gonna be. The court will make a decision without you and I interfere. Believe me, it doesn't occur to anyone. Thank you anyway, we've talked a lot about it and we haven't really agreed, but we've had one normal discussion all these months.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48653	I would like to thank Mr. Secretary, who is in the mood to clarify all the misunderstandings that arise from the request of our MPs. But I will ask you, indeed, to observe today's agenda and to discuss this subject and to give my word to Mrs. Verity Radetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48654	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today the minister said this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies would be inspiring for the MPs. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, all DOS governments in the last ten years have been very inspiring to us. It would be good to recall the debate of Serbian Radical Party MPs in 2006, when the law was passed on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, even in 2007 when the law changed. What is essential, which is not the subject of the name of this law, which should be, is a massive state administration and a very expensive state apparatus. The problem I don't want to talk about seems to me publicly at least when it comes to the ruling coalition and the minister's MPs, is the fact that in the last ten years out of 8,000 employees in the state administration, the number has increased to, ministers, 28,000. The question is, who hired these people? What was the real need to increase the number of civil servants by 8,000 to 28,000 and bring a number of civil servants below the social minimum? What is also the problem that we Serbian radicals talk about every time these and similar topics are on the agenda, is the existence of these para-state authorities in the form of agencies. It is known that there are over 100 in Serbia, possibly 105 agencies, but it is unknown how many employees there are in those agencies and how much, in fact, these agencies cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The minister mentioned earlier that these agencies do not even finance themselves from the budget, which is absolutely untrue. Here we'll see maybe one day and this budget next year, today was the last day to adopt the budget, but here we haven't even heard it yet or seen it. But we'll also see in that budget, absolutely certain, that the funds for the funding of the agencies will be allocated. What is the problem when it comes to the agencies is the work of the agencies that absolutely coincides with the work of the ministries, and that is why we call them the para-state authorities. Another problem is hiring in these agencies, because it is common knowledge and we are always publicly talking about it, that agencies employ politically similar personnel, party personnel, party people working in the field, etc. What was also meant to be the subject of today's debate and this law, besides what I mentioned, are independent regulatory bodies. We don't even know how many of these so-called regulatory bodies we have. Every day, Malten, nothing. We also don't know how many people they hire, how much they spend on both salaries and material costs, and for the facilities they live in. The same goes for the agencies. We have no data at all, we are in the National Assembly, and we are not citizens of Serbia. If we had the right and relevant data, then it would be quite clear that what is a state administration, what is really needed by the number of employees in the state administration, could live with dignity in relation to what the situation is today, thanks to a very bad policy that has been going on in Serbia for 10 years, when it comes to the state administration and of course not just the state administration. It doesn't make sense that the assistant minister has a higher salary than the minister. That the minister has 120,000 salaries, that the assistant minister has 150,000 salaries, but it is also illogical that the minister has a salary of 120,000, and the driver who drives it is 20,000 dinars. So neither is good. It actually says how many of you from the government, I'd say the MPs of the regime who aren't very interested in participating in the work under this bill, how much you don't really care about what it is to be a public administration. Because it's not the job of the Minister and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government just what the minister mentioned today -- how his ministry works, how many employees he has, etc. I guess the Ministry of State and local self-government has certain responsibilities when it comes to the entire state administration and local self-government. He's got the right to control, he's got some control obligations. So you can't fence yourself with responsibility, as the minister mentioned in one of his presentations today. I would also mention the consequences of the practice of such a bad wage law in the state administration. I will talk, mostly, about salaries and the status of people who are employed in the National Assembly. Of course, I don't mean the MPs, this is primarily an explanation for the public. This law allowed the chosen to have special salaries, to be particularly rewarded and, unfortunately, to benefit themselves in practice. This law has made it possible and, it is also present in practice, an incredible discrimination between civil servants and deputies. I'll illustrate that with several examples. Let's say the overtime of employees, Madam President of the National Assembly in this House, you may not know about this information, but here you are now hearing the public, and so do you. Employees in parliamentary groups, I am now talking about people who are employed in the SRS parliamentary group, have an obligation, we MPs ask them to do this, that, since you are always giving us agendas and a draft agenda within a short period of time than what the Rules of Procedure foresees, then we need a reverse application to do amendments, and we normally need those people who are employed in parliamentary groups, to help us, to knock, to agree, to bear, to communicate, etc., therefore, to work with us on amendments. When the month is over, they write a good report about overtime, because it allows them to do so, and wherever they write their work on amendments after work, the Secretary General of the National Assembly does not recognise it. Here, look, and we know that it is recognised to some other parliamentary groups, or employees of other parliamentary groups. This is possible because the law is not good for you and because the law allows such abuse. The problem that has also arisen from the poor Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, also with examples of employees in the Assembly, and this also applies to employees in the judiciary, in the government, in all state bodies, is amazing that you do not pay the employees so-called. It's a hot meal fee. You only do that when it comes to employees in the Assembly, when the days of the Parliament's meeting are. Now, the question is, if someone interprets that they have no right to do so, then how come they have the right to pay them that fee at a time when parliament is in session, and if they have the right to do so every day? So that's one of the anomalies of this law that should have been put into alterations and additions that we're discussing today. Furthermore, the question to which we have not received an answer is - why is it that employees, Madam President, in the Assembly, who are not in a permanent working relationship, and they have that salary for which it is intended to pay a one-time fee of 5,000 dinars, why have they not received that fee, if they meet the conditions and if we know that the Labour Act in all rights and obligations absolutely equalises employees at a certain and indefinite time? The second is the story that they are again discriminated against by employees, let's say, in the SRS parliamentary group, because I think it's the only parliamentary group where you still haven't given people who work there, or the secretary, not you, you haven't given solutions or contracts to work indefinitely, and you've made it possible for other parliamentary groups. As far as relations are concerned, again, what this law has allowed, and you have not put it again, or there is no minister, in the amendment and supplementation proposal. There are, it's amazing, but fast so-called. Old officials and new employees at the state administration. Those who worked at the state administration before 2006 and those who got a job after 2006 doing exactly the same job, sitting in the same office, so the same job, the so-called. The old clerk gets about 30,000 dinars for the job, and this so-called. The new guy gets 22,000 dinars. It is the consequence of this law, the bad law that we have criticised and mentioned at the time that such things will happen, but then the congregation majority had no hearing and therefore today we have this problem which, unfortunately, even this present congregation majority and government have no intention of correcting, because in the context of these amendments and supplementing this law, we have not received such a proposal. Furthermore, most of the tenants in the state administration, and again I am talking about the National Assembly, benefiting, that is, their bosses are using the possibility from this law that they can monthly raise their salary to a certain percentage, mostly that is about to come down to another salary allocated for a whole year. Of course, and it's small again and it doesn't satisfy the basic needs of life, but it's a fundamental problem that only the deputies working in the SRS don't get this, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, everyone else gets it. When I asked the secretary, in preparation for today's session, I couldn't get it, so I asked the secretary to provide me with information that I know he got from accounting, so I could mention it even more specifically here, I got a message that he was just looking for technical reasons and there was no reason to give it to me, and she didn't even know where he left it, so she couldn't give it to me. So much for the transparency of your work, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic and your secretary general. Also, it's a case that the tenant and the clerk are doing the exact same job. I assume you know you've got it here in Parliament, it's in the whole state administration. So, the exact same job is being done by the tenant and by the clerk. The tenant does it for 11,000 dinars, an officer for 16,000. Sadness is both, but amazing that there can be such a difference. You are in this proposal, i.e. the Government has changed Article 13 in this proposal that talks about payment classes and has not touched the base that is 16049 dinars, which is important because of the future debate to remember what is the basis by which these coefficients are multiplied, and you have proposed here, or the Government has proposed only in eight payment groups to change the coefficients, and for those who have the competent ones, not to say the higher wages there are no changes. Of course, it's not fundamentally controversial, but it's something else. In the current law, the relationship between the lowest and the highest profit in the state administration was 1:9 and it's really terrible. You're now proposing that the change be one-six. We think it's not good, and we've proposed the amendment, I'm sorry the minister comes out, but I guess when we talk about the amendments, maybe we convince him, we've done the math well, and when we talk about the amendments, you'll hear that, we've suggested that this relationship be 1:5. Maybe that's a lot, but we didn't have time to get into this whole math thing anymore because we had really little time. We did this by putting this twelveth group of yours as the last thirteenth group, and by doing that, at least, we've earned a little bit of money for government employees. We did the same thing when it came to the tenants, so we suggested that the basic, lowest, sixth canvas group with one should be 1.2. The important thing is to say that this coefficient is multiplying by those 16049 dinars, so now you see how much that is, and only how much it was based on the law so far and how little it is based on this proposal of yours. It's really just makeup. Nothing's really going to change. You know, is someone gonna get 2,000 more wages, what does it have to do with a salary of $11,500, what does it get with that increase? And it is indeed, someone was saying today, as you boast, not you, of course, but other resolute ministers and representatives of the regime boast that they will increase pensioners' salaries by 1%. Imagine the happiness of a pensioner with 8,000 dinars, it will increase by 80 dinars. It's really hypocritical, no matter how many states there's no money, how much crisis there is, but there are, here I was talking at the beginning and talking to my colleagues and we'll talk these days about where you can save everything, to get these 1.6 billion that you need to just as little, as you predicted, increase the profits of civil servants and tenants and, of course, I'm talking about the ones with the lowest wages. I'm not talking about those who have enormously high profits. I don't know if Mrs. President knows there are at least 10 employees in this building who have almost twice the president's salary. People's MPs don't even want me to talk. Because you are completely illogical and unclear criteria, and then it brings this abuse, then the secretary chooses who is who could make progress and have 200 or 250 thousand salaries, do some work that corresponds to the regime, and someone who has the same expertise and more experience can't get close to it. He's got a lot of low wages, but he's not going to be doing these dangerous government jobs. Of course, we all know what that means? I'll just give you an example of what we were like in Zemun municipality when Vojislav Seselj was president of the Zemun municipality. Of course, I know local self-government isn't government, but absolute analogy can be applied. Here, Gordana Pop Lazic is here, maybe she'll talk about it. She was the secretary, I was one of the commissioners. Vojislav Seselj invited us and asked how much money the average family at the time could live on condition that the two in the family work? I don't remember how much we said it was then. But, let's say, at the moment, that would be, say, 30,000 dinars. He said, the lowest salary, the housewife's salary, there must be 30,000 dinars, the highest salary three times that, and between that, make appropriate ranges. When we did so, we achieved that in the municipality of Zemun the highest salaries were received within the local self-government in Serbia. So they called us every day from Belgrade's municipalities, from the rest of Serbia, to ask us how we did it. Well, the maids couldn't believe it at the time, they had more than double the salary, and those who otherwise had high wages, where we were, paid a little or no. That's what we should do now. If you want to achieve what you wrote in the explanation – that one of the roles of this social character law is because you say provides economic existence (President: Time). Just a sentence, please, to finish. It provides economic existence to employees of state authorities. This can possibly be achieved if you accept amendments to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48655	Mrs. Radeta, I didn't want to answer, of course, although you spoke to me about a significant part of your presentation. I fully understand your need to criticise a law that you don't like, but I must simply say that what the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does is quite in line with the law, which may be, you don't like on the one hand. On the other hand, his relationship with the issues you're talking about has a domestic and rational, in line with the economic moment we're in. I would really ask that the public’s work is not to get the impression that someone is breaking the law and that someone is not taking care of civil servants and tenants in the home of the National Assembly. I really think that the way you place your views simply can really hurt you, because people know what we're talking about here. (The Faith of Radeta: Please allow me only one sentence.) I couldn't let you, simply the Rules of Procedure won't let me, but there will be an opportunity for the two of us to talk. I don't have a problem at all. Mr. Momo Colakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48656	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I must intervene again. The previous honourable MP spoke of pensions and reiterated what is not specified in the bill and what is not now being talked about. Namely, pensioners receive pensions, not salaries. That's the first one. You're the one who made the payments. I think it's a lapus, and it's not a problem. Second, nowhere and no one suggested that pensions increase by 1%. I also explained this in the replica with Mr. Obradovic and now I say, when the Law on PIO comes, we will discuss it, we will conflict opinions or define ourselves for what is most favourable to pensioners. Next, when the budget comes, too. It is not true that the proposal to increase pensions by 1%. The lowest pensions increase by 1% and are then harmonised as they will be specified in the law, which is that pensions will be harmonised as wages grow in the public sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48657	Mrs. Verica Radeta, replica, probably on my exhibit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48658	Yeah, but just to tell the gentleman, it's possible that I said pay instead of retirement. Of course, I didn't mean that someone was receiving both wages and pensions, but I was thinking about pensions and talking about pensions. Of course, that's what we'll talk about when the law comes here, that was mentioned on the same time. As for the objections you made to my presentation, Madam President, I must say again, for the sake of the public and the record, that you were wrong and I will tell you why. It's true, this law is not good. They're not good at changing the law either. I was just talking about the consequences of such a bad law. It is nice for the secretary to behave domestically, but it is not nice to host only when it comes to employees of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm saying that everything I've said is true and you can check it all out, Madam President, and before I take all this out and check it out. The secretary has a lot of places where he can act domestically. We get to know each other in the paper that these skeletons cost us 700 euros a day. There's a place to be saved without being discriminated against by officials and tenants. Believe me, everything I've said is absolutely true. We have all the evidence on that. So if someone takes and signs a paper saying that he's working overtime and he writes, changes with MPs, and he crosses it out, how can you say that's not exactly what we're saying. It is also true that only the tenants employed in our parliamentary group have not received for this year that some supplement that is discretionary, which almost everyone has received and which amounts to about one of their poor salaries during the year. Absolutely correct, believe me. Really now I'm asking you, for the sake of the public, check it out, so when we're talking about amendments, then you're denying me if I'm wrong. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48659	You're using some fact again, but you put it in such a context to send an incorrect message. Please, the contract annex predicted, although the weather allows, December 31st, we will no longer have the skeletons, and we will have completed the work that makes the skeletons stand there. So you take just one segment and you talk about it, but we're just moving away from the agenda. We move on to the MPs according to the application for a word in the principle of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. I give my word to Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48660	Thank you, President. If the previous debate in that part when authorized speeches had not raised any questions, I would probably not speak in this part, but I am simply forced to speak not only about the quality of this law and the failure to meet the objectives that are publicly declared and that would be acceptable, which is to reduce the range between employees and the lowest, least paid categories within the state administration. In fact, the goal is to delete one provision, which is Article 29 of the current law, which allows state officials working in a position to recognise the right to overtime, as well as other civil servants and tenants, is actually one of the key reasons why we are talking about this law. I don't need to explain the government's macaroveistic reasons in any way that wants to stimulate employees, the most of which depends on her quality work. Because these reasons exist in the very reasons that are given here, I actually want to give these arguments to the public. I'm only reading a proposal that's the subject of our debate. So, Article 1 changes from a category of lower employees and tenants and allegedly corrects and reduces differences, but Article 29 says the one that is deleted, that in fact a civil servant working in a position only has the right to add time spent in a working relationship. Let's let someone who understands the Serbian language tell me that now the right to admit overtime can be treated as an addition to a working relationship? Is daily work considered a working relationship in terms of the salary that we are talking about here today? I have the highest possible interpretation, the imagination, not all the restrictions you're in, but the minister himself, by treating what the state secretaries and secretaries of the ministry have made me open all those issues that have been falling to my heart since 2001 to this day. Is it normal for someone to assure me that under Article 34, which speaks of who these civil servants are and defines them nicely as assistant ministers, secretaries of the ministry, directors of the authorities, etc., that I don't bother either the public or you, that regulates the Law on Civil Service? Article 34 accurately provides for the treatment of those officers in positions. The former member of the 33rd said – the position of the civil servant has the powers and responsibilities of managing and coordinating the work of the state authority. This just means that someone who is at the position of a state official should take care of the alignment of jobs, working hours, and the conditions that lead to someone working overtime or simply writing overtime, supplementing their salary that is small, I will agree with you. Don't ignore this difference. This man we now give me the right to delete Article 29, this Article 29 treats his labour rights as a time spent in a working relationship, and you use it as a basis for a civil servant in a position, who normally needs to take care of the management and coordination of work in a state body, means whether he has a sufficient number of employees, whether they are trained professionally, whether he has some oscillation in daily or weekly or such seasonal, to call them conditional jobs, what the budget, what the minister was talking about, so it's the job of whoever you're giving here to or doing overtime, but he's also writing to himself overtime, or to himself as an organ manager, if I can't turn that clock into an hour and a half off time, so I don't use it within the next 30 days, to ask to pay me 26% more than regular hours of working hours. Don't question the logic of us who know the Serbian language and can read the law. I don't care what anyone means or how they misapply the laws I read and which are available to me. You know how I read them? By presenting tomorrow and submitting in the Assembly an initiative to reduce the number of ministries, but not only in technical terms, but in essence, and making this number of such and under the Law on State Administration the number of these officials, so-called. consciousness to a quarter, essentially saving and because of demand for constitutional change, reducing the number, proposing and calling on those who are empowered to do so by the Constitution, and this is the signature of every citizen who wants this state to spread in accordance with the length of his Governor. So that's how we fight, not by talking about it, but by having a concrete reaction to the reduction of the number of ministries, to the change of the Government Act, where it's the essential thing of the government and the ministry to form now these authorities of the administration or public agencies where such people appear as directors, assistants or deputies who can introduce these rights, which at this point amount to a billion and 600 million dinars for the budget. We understand perfectly the causes and consequences, and I do not allow anyone to make this a political story or politicisation, nor to call this bill a fundamental law, nor to call what the SNS does, and behind it citizens, anyone questions. Here, you are protesting what the European rules are that Dora Bakoyani is still an MP today. Please protest what two MPs voted for Berlusconi's law, but it is to allow a man to have his head, to have his conscience and his honor and to be faithful to his idea. It is true fidelity, ideas that make citizens vote. I read the Law on State Administration, I read the Law on Civil Service and the Law that you gave me, and I know perfectly well how to interpret what a civil servant is in a position. I have offered this to you and one specificity of these civil servants in the case of judicial authorities, where people who have high school equipment have been particularly damaged, completed law school and passed a judicial exam, and work as professional associates, and are the lowest paid. What's the problem with this law? What's the problem we've been dealing with that doesn't seem like the basis for me? The existence of a secretary of state who can, according to one who was forced to resign, Ms. Nadica Momirov, that the MP and state secretary do not have to be written or have a day of school, she said, because she had to resign because of the falsely displayed diploma. It's not true. In the government, someone who has nine years of work experience in such high places has to work and has the school's lowest education. Whoever doesn't apply it and who politicises those high positions in government, that's the problem of this country. Whoever introduced those functions in this country in the cutting councils, for national councils, for education, for RIK, to be honored, not to be paid so much that we had one of the biggest affairs, which someone would gladly forget, how much and how these people were determining their own fees. Isn't there an analogy between how RIK made its own fees, held three sessions in one day, all of them, for God's sake, important jobs, and then we were all surprised by the lists that came up on the surface. You know why? Because the amount of funds paid was managed in the Republic of Serbia's budget through the National Assembly through a section that prescribed participation in the boards of directors in some organisations. So it was hiding, as in the mass of 1.6 billion dollars, it's hiding the alleged aid to the least-paid and the tenants, and it's actually hiding the possibility. I'm not going to argue right now, and abuse, but it is the possibility of abuse that a man himself determines overtime when he doesn't have to or wastes his working time irrationally, so he introduces all of us into voting the law we've been condemning when we had RIK. Mrs. Malovic returned that money, and many did not, they believe they earned it. But Ms. Malovic, for example, was then one of the officials who was past the competition and what the law prescribed by the employees of the ministry of justice. And you're trying to convince me that you're doing things by law, for the sake of legality, or for the interests of the citizens. You know what, to convince me that there are evaluation criteria for employees to advance, not because they have a party membership card or because they're relatives, but because they're rated at the right time intervals with grades that really talk about their creativity, responsibilities, regularity, etc. What have you faced with the Serbian public and all of us? With a law that was all but a law, more regulation on the resolution of extra employees in the state administration, where people in one day, got a unit and got it, got fired without the right to appeal and referred to administrative disputes that lasted for years. Well, we also have a case where 13 pregnant women were out of work at the Privatisation Agency, because someone thought he could estimate today that someone was getting a unit, and because of that one unit, he could get fired and get rid of extra employees. Do you know how realistic this unit or an "A" is? As much as the criteria that you don't like the color of someone's eyes. Unfortunately, even this is not a criterion, because we could discuss someone's right to taste, and here is someone's real debate about whether they have any soul, consciousness, heart, and responsibility to God to leave the streets of unemployed people with enormous experience and quality and to send them to an administrative dispute that can last for years. Well, what are these people going to live on until they get satisfaction in court? Yes, they also received those who illegally received layoffs at the National Bank when the National Savings Bank was ruled out by the abolished former SDK, but it was voted here to wash the damage, not honor, but the governor's pocket, that he would not answer the institutions and thus not respond to the people who propose bad laws but to respond to the institutions, means that the responsibility is passed on to the citizens, to their pockets because they are full of the budget, because the state does not earn anything. It spends what it collects from citizens and the National Bank, which by definition is a profitable institution, was at a loss when it generated costs and work disputes. So if you had adopted a procedure, from assessing the working quality and contribution of employees, I would say that it is possible that these people who are on lower scales in the state hierarchy, i.e. in the state administration, have at least the opportunity to make progress, someone will really evaluate them, and from a small salary through a realistic view of their work will simply come to some decent salary or satisfaction called – to learn a job. For many young people, it's a satisfaction to learn a job. The minister didn't say here that he couldn't teach someone that God works on the budget right now, but how someone would gain experience if you didn't give him a chance and a chance to at least help someone who did. No, you say by this law - the overtime can go up to 90 days, that's the state official in the position, who should coordinate the work, that he appreciates how many hours he's working, that he can already receive someone for a month and a half, so that someone can do the input, no, but you know why he can't, because it's the most strictly guarded secret. The payments via the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance are the most closely guarded secret on which you recently had the governor of the National Bank himself on those lists, for example for a fee of 20,000 dinars. It's not a way of creating, not a quality state administration, not a return of pride, not to this state, not to those who need to be employed in these institutions. It is a way of bribing and buying those who need to work not by law, not by some criteria, but by the wishes and demands of those who give them the opportunity to work at all. Yes, I have every right to protest such solutions because these ten years Serbia's history is not the only state administration and its positive experience. You can't build a bad house on a bad basis. That we cannot and should not show the laws that will enter the assembly procedure today with, I say, the Law on the Government, the Law on Government and the Law on State Administration, I expect from all those who verbally advocate a cheaper state, for a more rational administration and for a smaller budget deficit, to vote in favour of putting on the agenda of such laws, and not to be persecuted here today whether the workers of the judiciary, who are rightly protected, have called a secretary of state or secretary of the ministry, because Articles 25, 26 and 24 speak nicely about whether they are in a position, who sets them up and who determines their pay differences. We don't know much about that. But Articles 25, 26 and 27, who treats advisers, the Law on State Administration speaks very nicely of its breadth that this government and government have left to those who should work for it, but not at the same time for citizens to work for it, but not for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48661	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48662	It is a pity that there are few MPs in the hall who were present in 2006 when this law was first passed. Before I give some critical reference to this bill, I would just like to remind the public and these people who were not Members in 2006. It would be good if they took the stenograms and read the discussions at the time. Of course, this bill can be viewed from the point of view of the problem it treats in a broader and narrow way. Let's just think of some little chronology. In 2006, in that building, the National Assembly defended Zoran Balinovac, and active in the drafting of this law was Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic at the time, because they were faced with the problem of how to define the total amount of salaries for civil servants and how to introduce, as they said then, some order. I have to remind the public that the principles on which they wanted to do it weren't so bad, and the principle is a pay group and a pay grade. We were against this division to civil servants and tenants, because we pointed out what would come out as a problem. Of course, it was all rejected in a similar way as today's rejection in this building. We said what would happen and it happened. The bill doesn't solve the problem since yesterday or the day before yesterday, it is trying to solve something that has been a problem since the day of the law, which is 2006. So, the system of paying classes, paying groups is somewhat acceptable, but these ranges that were made between were unacceptable, and especially the division of all those in working relationship with the administration of civil servants and tenants, for us at the time was unacceptable, now we can't change that because it left some of our consequences. The amendments to this law have not given us the opportunity to intervene with the amendment in this regard. I have to draw attention to that, and if this bill is passed, the relationship will be one to nine again. Why? Because canvas group one, that's the first group of positions, has a coefficient of nine and six pay groups in the tenant has a coefficient of one. It's a relationship one to nine, not one to six, as you wrote in the light of this bill. However, if we closely observe the scope of this law and the proposed changes, then the aim is to regulate the relationship between payment groups and payment classes in a way that would suit the quality and needs of a given job. Then we see that there are some illogicalities here, which you can't believe the amendments can change, as long as all of these coefficients are added to the number of employees in the state administration, if that's 27 thousand employees, so multiply by the base that's being determined every year by the Budget Law, in this way we come to a mass in the net amount, and then, I need to draw your attention, that this mathematics that you've given here from 1.6 billion dinars, what do you estimate to be cost, means, through what is regularly going on, I don't think that this mathematics is right for you, because if in the beginning you accept that Article 3 is going to be done. The bill deletes, then the amount will certainly be much lower than this, as soon as Article 3 remains, it gives great space for something that cannot be improved or to be more precise, it would only be controlled under the state administration system, and then depending on how much anyone suspects the ministry, individual ministries, the government can conclude and what degree of possible abuse it will be. There's one thing I really have to say is that it's good to think about a change at all, and that's for these pay groups, not only from 10 to 13 but I'd say from 6 to 13, because that's where I found this space where the waist should be expressed. That's what I have to say. However, what is above 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, there are organizers of something that is done in the system of the state administration, but practically from 6 to 13 of the paying group there should be experts or what carries the job, the technical aspect of the work in the state administration. There are some things we don't like, and we suggest that it change. We'll talk about it when the amendments are made. If we go to this system of tenants, there are six paying groups, something changes from 3rd to 6th, practically, the first and second ones don't change anything, but there is still that objection to the kind of interference of these matters with civil servants, which is the actual state of affairs, it doesn't have to be the solution, but, in fact, according to that business that's done, it's certainly not the point, and it's not the basic idea that employees in the state administration should be divided into civil servants and tenants. Practically, we are now suffering some consequences. So, if we look at the ropes of these changes, they need to solve these relative relationships within the pay groups and pay grade. We think that what you've made as a proposal won't solve this problem and of course I'm taking the risk of someone misreading it, because in this category from a younger counselor to a younger reference officer, I have to say that we have everything and everything. We also have a sort of fostering of individual personnel. Those who belonged to the first fighters of the five-October revolution, who went to the US Embassy to take money, to finance etc., they have made far more progress, they are advisers to the president of the Republic, special advisers to ministers, vice-president of the government. That's the second dilemma, that's the resistance that controls the DS, but that's your problem, you're going to solve it the way you planned it. It seems to me that when this law was on the agenda in 2006 that, apart from the SRS, everyone else voted because everyone else supported that government. Now it's a little weird that people are fighting and I really have to compliment them, they're all right, everything they said. They know best what the DOS structure is. Law enforcement is a major problem, since then and now in a broader sense, salaries of government employees, they are represented as part of public spending of RS, but this inevitably raises the issue of personal spending throughout RS and raises the issue of consolidated balance of RS. When we're on that ground, then I have to say that there's a total mess, because now someone's going to get the wrong idea that MPs are fighting, they're going to worry about the salaries of the deputies and the civil servants, and what about the other people who work? Like the ones that are protected, the ones that work with the private, the ones that work in some company, who are lucky to work? What about those who work, the company doesn't pay a contribution, so when they're supposed to retire, they get a sort of surprise? This should also raise the question of personal consumption and rewarding. There is total chaos, so we now have a kind of bid from the Deputy Prime Minister, through individual ministers, through economic experts, etc., and all bid on some percentage, and you know yourself that the state is in big heavy friends and when someone talks about personal incomes and their movement, just to remind ourselves, practically two years, we don't have a pension alignment in accordance with the law that's in force, two years we don't even have a transfer of non-intentional funds to local self-government according to the Law on the financing of local self-government that's been passed as something epochal. We have a lot of those regulations that don't apply. One of my predecessors said -- these changes on the fiscal council, someone got mixed up in dates. The question is whether today December 19th, it may be October 15th, not December 15th, but October 15th. Why? There's no budget. Is there a problem with the budget? There's a terrible problem. You still can't make a list of what everything needs to be sold to fill the holes, and all that would be filled out like a hole is just a expense. That's the budget. I think we're in this story because we don't respect the principle, that principles are being destroyed, and that the material assumptions for any public spending are very modest here, despite the fact that someone boasts that there's a major global crisis abroad, and we've profited from that global crisis. Please stop this stuff, because we can become a great victim of lies. Something like that, Tito said in 1980, Koci Popovic that everything is a lie. We knew it was all a lie, but the people died. Take care, this is done, the government is done for the people. The people need to feel some positive effects of government. This way it just spills from hollow to empty, wants people with the lowest incomes that work in the state service, I just have to say that this law has its own portable meaning, because it is indirectly applied to many other categories. You've seen for yourself how many of these para-state bodies that aren't in the budget, and I'm glad you mentioned the agencies. Just to remind you, in 2005, in 2006, we received warnings, we from the SRS, from the chairman, because we opposed the agencies. I would recommend that if you really want to find the right direction to get this country out of this situation, you read more of those stenograms and those critical estimates for the individual draft laws that were on the agenda. Just to remind you, last year, and at the beginning of this year, a spectacular action has been announced to fire people from the state administration, under the pressure of the IMF and those who provide funds for the preservation of this government, and then it is precisely calculated how many people should be fired, etc. We said it didn't have anything to do with it. We don't even have a criterion here right now. I have to tell you, and those memos that monitor the budget, it's a list of some things that are absolutely unrealistic. There are some aproximative forecasts of what would happen if there were, this is expected, what is expected. We don't have one serious economic policy. There is absolutely no serious economic policy, how rewarding policy, how personal consumption policy, how public spending policy. You've never been able to hear in this building or the one where someone from some ministry comes in and says it's a difficult situation, it's problems, we're looking at ways to solve it. There's always some praises. How many times have we criticized here, say, the Minister of Health? We now hear that 500m euros is owed to the pharmaceutical industry. I am guilty, I am not guilty, I am in this part of the blood, in this part I am not guilty etc. Or the information Markovic had just said, I'm not going to comment on it because it's gone, but he has to remember, since he was also an MP back then in 2006, that everything was told in time what would happen to us, what would hit us. We also had a problem with rights acquired at the time. We also had a problem connecting administrations from two, if I may say so, states etc. No one goes beyond that that objectively and there were some problems, but there was no will to solve this in a principled, objective way, but to set the principle, and then with exceptions all of this is dissuaded, devalued and ruined. That's the big problem. I am absolutely certain that even after these changes, no matter what they may be, there may be a slight increase in these 10 to 13 pay groups among civil servants and from 3 to 6 paying groups in the tenants. I'm saying something might happen, but nothing in essence is going to improve in their position, nothing in essence because there is no personal spending policy here as an integral part of this country's overall economic policy. All the solutions that are drawn are limited range, and they are more of an exception or something controversial or fire extinguishing or putting out some ordinary fires so as not to cause a bigger fire. However, this is impossible to do during such a large time period on October 5th 2000 - December 31st 2010. It's a simple time-shaking thing. He can no longer endure, and secondly, there is no more illusion that can be offered to citizens as a substitute for harsh reality. There isn't. What illusion to offer citizens? I'm taking a huge risk today for all those who are out of a job to say, and why doesn't someone take care of us? You know how many people like that are unemployed. The unemployment rate is 30%. We're here for the record. Big record guys. If you look at the structure of the employees, please, where's the industry? She's gone. There's no industrial worker. Some services, administration, public service. It can't get the state out of a crisis. We need a new created value. Who's going to make the newly created state value? State officials? The tenants in the administration? We didn't touch those local government employees here. That doesn't bring income. It doesn't create value. It's supposed to help someone create values, but if it's so bureaucratic and becomes their own purpose, then don't let me explain to you what's next. See for yourself what defils everything in the National Assembly in these offices? What's the employment criteria? In 2000. The National Assembly had 70 employees, 17 security guards, and now 360 employees and 170 are working on security. Then someone to please Thaci, who sells organs, says – The National Assembly should have 120 MPs, the same as the illegal and illegal self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo. That's the story. And then someone else came up and said, "Let's get KIM out of the preamble, and this guy remembered regionalization." Next time I'll read to you what the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, criticised both regionalization and this all a few years ago, so let's see how consistent we are as people, and then as politicians. I thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48663	National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48664	We have a pretty short bill ahead of us. We only have five members, with the fifth member of the general nature. However, this law also relates directly to a large number of people. We have heard that in Serbia, around 27,000 civil servants and deputies and the essence of this could be said that there are two things when it comes to changing the existing law, which is to establish new coefficients for civil servants and tenants, whose salaries are below the republican average. I would add that there are many below the republican average if we know that the republican average is about 33,000, then there are some civil servants and tenants who have a salary of about 14,000-15.000. So it's almost twice as low as the Republic average. This correction does not cover all payment classes. It's classified from the 12th to the 10th payroll. I apologize for using an archaic term, not pay grade, but pay group. So these are pay groups when it comes to civil servants, where they are really the lowest coefficients. So that's where the changes occur, and when the tenants, because they're different, are divided, from 1 to 6, they cover the pay groups from 6 to 3. So 2nd and 1st, etc., there will be no change in them. Another thing that the proposer proposes by this law is to reduce the wage range in the state authorities and to change this ratio from 1:9 to 1:6. We think it's a cellular solution because these people are really inaccessible small wages. I'll quote a sentence in the explanation where you say that adopting this law will provide more favourable conditions for the economic existence of civil servants and deputies. I don't think there's going to be any major improvement in the standards of these citizens because they're so low-income that even when that increase occurs, it's hardly going to provide any significant increase in living standards and these people and their families. Why? Because for two and a half years, this government led by Mirko Cvetkovic has affected the serious deterioration of the standards of all citizens in this country, not just civil servants and tenants. It definitely cannot provide social security to anyone, nor to this category, with all the increases that are foreseen here and which are minimal. It is almost forgotten that when this government formed itself, she called herself socially responsible. I like to read to the MPs from time to time, but first and foremost to the citizens, to remind them of some parts of the May 2008 exposé, and the programme of this government, when Mirko Cvetkovic, then the prime minister, promised to all of us and Serbia's citizens that it would be one socially responsible government. In 2008, therefore, Mr Cvetkovic says that one of the priorities of the Serbian government is to strengthen social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially to the most vulnerable categories of the population, that the government's goal in the coming years is to participate in the results of economic progress. So there is neither progress nor social security or responsibility. Unfortunately, there has been a major improvement and a decline in the standards of all citizens. The other day there was a press conference where official statistics were presented that talk about what kind of economic state we live in, what is the standard of Serbian citizens after two and a half years. Data refer to 2010 which is already near the end, which is that the standard of citizens in 2010 fell by as much as 25%, so by one quarter the standard of all citizens has deteriorated and these are the latest economic parameters. Since the beginning, life supplies have been up 11% to make me more accurate by about 11.2%. That says the Statistics Office on average, we all know that some products are much more expensive, some smaller, but the statisticians have calculated that it's about 11 to 12% on average. That our salaries have all been actually cut by more than 13% and there is this 25% deterioration in the overall standard of all of us. There are almost no products that are not expensive and these are the everyday products that a family really has to buy, there are oil, milk, meat, etc. So, the situation is obvious. It seems to me that yesterday, Governor Mr. Soskovic, I don't know what he was going to say about comforting the citizens of Serbia, so he said -- he really thinks that inflation can't be greater than 14.5% in the coming year, that it's also his prediction, so he's already talking about 2011, so not that we can expect to improve standards, but this 25% of this year will probably grow to 30% or 35% next year. These are some of the results of this socially responsible government. I will remind you only that the leader of the DS and the president of this country recently said that due to anti-crisis measures, Serbia was prevented from bankruptcy, and only a year ago, a year and a half ago, he talked about the economic crisis as actually a developmental opportunity for Serbia. How do we get from a developmental chance to having our standard so bad, that there are an increasing number of people in Serbia living below the poverty line? In this explanation, you say, that is Chapter 4, I am talking about this law, the financial resources needed to implement this law, I am sorry that Mr Markovic is not here, that to implement this law, it is necessary to provide additional funding of around a billion and 600 million dinars in the 2011 RS budget for this law to enter into force on 1 January 2011. The necessary resources would provide users with the redistribution of these appropriations provided by the 2011 budget in a manner and in accordance with the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. In short, here the proposer tells us how much it takes to amend and supplement this law, to implement the law, and then tells us that it would not be an increase but would be a redistribution within the means provided. I'm saying, I'm sorry Mr. Markovic isn't here, he was so active in this first part of the discussion about this bill, I don't believe he's not here because there's probably no direct transmission anymore. If he participated actively in the first part of the session, then he could stay and listen to the discussion of the other MPs until the end. Mr. Markovic, or his ministry, says he will redistribute existing funds. I have a great suggestion on how to save some funds, and then how to redistribute. I would return this government to one of the promises they made to all the citizens of Serbia and the MPs, which was the word that the state apparatus must be cut down. There was no reduction in the state apparatus. We have that in the daily newspaper, controversy between individual ministers and parties, etc., is being bid, one says that there has been no talk of reducing the state apparatus, i.e. the government and the ministries, others even going so far as to replace some ministers, etc., but that's all in the paper. I would say that's all -- she said, but she's serious about the will and the intention of reducing the state apparatus in Serbia doesn't exist. Offices, councils, various working groups and all that at government meetings are being established. These are available public data. You go to the government site and you see exactly what's on which session is newly established. It's one thing, the formation of new bodies that should stop, and that new officials are constantly hired in existing bodies. It's simply an alarming accumulation of institutions. I say hoarding. You have somewhere to form a new body, advice, working group, etc. for some jobs for which there are already certain bodies in both government and state. I will give an example that all bodies and institutions are formed, which deal with regional development, which, among other things, play a very prominent role in dealing with regions and even regional development. For what? Because it seems to me that the seventh such institution was formed in September. There can also be savings. I'll list who these are. We have the Ministry without portfolio, headed by Minister Suleyman Ugljanin, who is in charge of even regional development. We have the Ministry of NIP, where almost all the activities of the Kobajagi, which the children would say, are either directed or have the advantage of undeveloped parts of Serbia. There is a National Regional Development Agency. There is an Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises that has a prominent role in its work description towards parts of Serbia that have not been developed, and this is the Mammic Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. When it comes to this ministry, what was the activities of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development? They relied on political projects by the G17 Plus party, where they recognized the possibility through this ministry using money from the budget to form regions around Serbia and to join them and form a party they had given a new name. It is no longer a G17 plus but a URS, or United Regions of Serbia. Most of the ministry's activities are practically based on some territorial division that we had in some dark times, where Serbia's territory was divided into nahi, and at the head of these najihs, I think it was the princes, and now it's the head of the nahih, or these URS politicians and members of G17 plus from those regions. So that's what the concern of regional development of the Ministry of Economy has become. It seems that Minister Dinkic really believes very much in that Latin - divids et Impera, quarrels and rule. All of this, namely all those bodies that exist and are engaged in regional development, was also formed in September by the Council for the Development of underdeveloped areas with the president and six members. So the government formed in September the seventh body to deal with regional development. It's about that part. For example, the government recently established an office called the Regulatory Reform Office and an analysis of the effects of the regulations. This is a double again. Why? Because for years, this has been a matter of administration or a unit for a comprehensive regulation reform. We have absolute duplication. In public, two new assistant directors of the National Council for decentralisation were almost undetected. There were eight people working in that office, but two new assistants were appointed. The only activity I know is that this office of decentralisation had that it printed a magazine called the Decentralizer. My question for Mr. Markovic, whom he can answer in writing, so that we, the MPs, would really be interested in what activities the National Council of decentralisation had in the previous year? I assume they are obliged, like all other government bodies, to report to the government at least once a year on their work. That's how I'd end up. You could inform all the MPs about what this national council is doing that publishes a magazine called "Decentralizer"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48665	Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48666	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to begin by clearing things up. Unfortunately, Mr. Markovic is not here, but he mentioned me in his discussion earlier. What might look kind of like a replica really has something to do with this subject, with the government. It seems to me that Mr. Markovic has just abused some facts. If he's not looking, I would kindly ask you to pass it on to him. I have indeed been to the Ministry of State Administration with a fellow MP from his party, but the causes and motives of our departure to the Ministry were completely different. I am prepared here in front of my fellow Members and the public, if there is a transfer, to go to the Ministry of State Administration at the moment and open the case, so that we can see whether, on the same basis and with the same requests at the Ministry of State Administration, we were myself, as an SRS MP, or an SRS committee member at SO Surdulica and fellow MP from the DS. Of course, their demands were something different at that time. They asked to challenge the session where the president of the municipality was elected. It was their legitimate right. But I did not expect the Minister of State Administration to make such a decision, because the minister was part of a policy and apparatus that only a few months earlier forced the municipal board to support the president of the municipality. It would be really funny if after two or three months he changed his mind. But I don't care. You have your representatives here so let them talk about it. What interests me is that the demands we made before the Ministry of State until today have not been answered by the Ministry of State Administration, but by any single state authority. Here's the thing. In the municipality of Surdulica, the Public Company "Vodovod", whose founder of the Municipality of Surdulica, until that moment, illegally charged the price of municipal services increased, i.e. the opposite of the law and the decision of the Assembly of the Municipality. The Ministry of Trade and Service found these irregularities in two of its solutions and ordered prices to return and that citizens do not steal. The public company has gone deaf to all this. We picked up at the local level shit. We've raised shit in front of state authorities. What did they think of in local self-government? To make a decision by which retrograde, reverse, will enable the charging of municipal services at those prices. When we rebelled against it and therefore came to the Ministry of State Administration to challenge that decision, they recalculated so that the decision was not announced in the Official Messenger. But such a decision has been made to the SO, which is contrary to the Constitution. We are in your ministry, to reach the state administration, asking the gentleman who welcomed us there – who is in charge and what should we do since they said they were not in charge of such a thing? They said they didn't know. I asked if I should turn around and file a trial before the Constitutional Court? They told me – yes. I'm the one who set it off. The Constitutional Court has reached out to the authorities. Since then, the Ministry of State Administration has not been competent, the Constitutional Court is not in charge, the Ministry of Finance, since it has grounds in the law, on the basis of some regulations, to suspend transfers due to non-compliance with the decision and order of the Ministry – nor is it competent. No one in this country is in charge for two years of forcing one public enterprise to respect the order and solution of the Ministry of Trade and Services, on the one hand, and on the other hand to comply with the law. Then the minister comes in so casually and says, you know, I'm against this, against that, the state administration of this, etc. It's a picture and an opportunity of our state administration. They have now begun to return prices, but not because they have increased the price of water, but because they have installed in the papers some services contrary to the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on Public Enterprises, and the judiciary has kept quiet, from the prosecution to the courts. There are objects in the drawers. So much for the state administration in Serbia. When we return to this law, the SRS explained its position and attitude towards this law in the most explicit way and expressed it through its amendment. We think the increase is necessary, but this isn't enough. These people are in a miserable position, and the government of Serbia's politics has put them in a miserable position like this and brought them into this. The fact that someone is about to receive 18 or 19 thousand dinars instead of 16, you can imagine what kind of favor it is. No one today who represents the congregation majority here and who will vote for this law really has the right to talk about this as a favor to these people who are with us from morning to night and stay behind and receive 16,000 or less, nor should it create room for themselves to provide political points, nor should they be praised. This is a defeat for every government, for those who sit or work from the government to the Assembly to have 15 or 16 thousand dinars paid. Why? What were you handling when you put these coefficients and these numbers out? Did you manage inflation? Did you manage the depression of the dinars? The rising price? These people three or four years ago for the 15 or 16 thousand dinars they received from this country may have been able to service some credit. From three to four years ago today, they can't cover their war on a monthly loan with this salary. If you wanted to be sound and socially responsible and to raise the economic existence of employees in the state administration, i.e. tenants and officials, then you should have done so three years ago. Why didn't you do it three years ago, so you could really be socially responsible and solid, as one of the representatives of the majority said today, with these people who really have a problem? They have a problem, but they don't interest you. You are interested in those who are in this ratio 1:6, or 1:9, as far as it is now, only those who are above two and one. Do you know why? Because they participate in policy-making and implementation. These don't matter to you, and as they create and implement politics for you, we all feel fat on our skin. You've put these people in the position they are, so in some ways they have to and should be grateful for the two or three thousand that you're going to give them as a charity by changing and supplementing this law. If you are truly solid, you will accept the amendment of the SRS and that range will be 1:5, as we have suggested in the amendment. Isanalyse there. The other thing, what you're really going to vote for, you deserve to have a government official sitting here telling you which funds this is going to be funded from. Where did a billion and a sixth come from? Look, irony, we don't have a budget today, we don't have a budget proposal, we don't know where a billion and six thousand dinars will be provided for these people. Maybe you're all doing them a bear favor together. Maybe this increase will get on their nose in February. Maybe it won't get on their noses, it'll come out to everyone and to those whom this law never touches, those who are in the real sector, who finance the revenue side of the budget, who will charge more taxes, to finance this from 2,000 and 3,000 dinars of the church, these people who make flags, clean or prepare us administratively for this assembly. But you don't want to deal with them, you don't deal with the real sector, you don't care. It is the easiest thing to reduce and raise wages in the public sector. There's no one's head hurts, there's no effort. That's what we all pay for. But you're not dealing with a real sector that really provides income to people in halls, in factories, in production, in exports, that really should provide income, so you can finance these billions and 600 million. From where? We spoke nicely to you now on the deficit, on the budget rebalance. You have defined two billion and 600 million dinars only for the Belgrade Building Land Directorate, and a billion and 600 will be on an annual basis to provide salaries to all state officials and tenants. These are relationships and these are the figures that are due to your policy. Can we see from somewhere if you are really interested in following the views of Minister Markovic as a congregation majority? Imagine the irony, imagine, that I do not express myself harder, the SRS, that I do not speak earlier than the constitution of this call challenges public agencies and we say to them that they are parallel state institutions, that they are enormously spending money, that there are political listeners, arrests, all that we have said for public agencies. Representatives of the government, when they come to this House, sit here and with a mockery, with disgust, look and listen to it. Then we get the State Administration Minister here two and a half years after that and he says, well, you know, I don't know what public agencies are. Imagine, Minister of State Administration. We have a clear law, three segments of state administration, you and you, what public agencies are, so no one knows. I'm paraphrasing. But he essentially shared the position of the SRS. It took you three years to remember it was true. Now I ask you, those of you who have supported this minister, who will vote for this – whose responsibility is that unconstitutional, parallel state institutions spent three years of money or how much they already exist and implemented everything that is on the burden of all taxpayers in this country and this state, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that now the minister remembers to tell us – they are not a constitutional category. I don't think they should exist. Indeed, some really should exist. They've justified the purpose of their existence, but in some different organisational form, that's where we agree. But where is the responsibility for what exists and after three years you realize that's not it? Can we see that at the expense of the wages they receive from the agencies there will be these increases? Here's the Agency, we've told you a hundred times, for deposit insurance, 200,000 dinars of salary has a clerk there who works on what jobs. Whatever jobs they're working on, from where? Where did 200,000 dinars come from? And we will strangle these people with 3,000 dinars and ask and expect them to be grateful to us, or you, be grateful to us; We have increased your wages. How are we going to finance them? Nobody knows that yet. Is the deficit going to be bigger? Is there going to be any new credit obligations, or is it going to be from someone within the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 to pinch, to give? Can we see from who, how are you going to finance all this? No, I don't. It's some things we can't accept. From that aspect, we need to talk about this law. Today, the government's representative is not going to tell us who's going to finance this and whether the damage is going to be greater than the benefit you're going to offer to the people who work here in the municipalities. As far as the SRS is concerned, we have made our position very clear and defined through the amendment at the beginning of this discussion. You're not doing anyone any favors. First of all, I'll be free to say, the shame and shame that you've treated these people like they have and brought them into a position where they are, that 1,000 dinars or 500 or 700 or 2,000 dinars mean more to them than some 10,000 or 100,000 dinars. You're not doing them any favors today. If you really want to be solid, socially responsible, accept the SRS amendment, at least do something for those people, and if you're ready for something like that, the SRS will set itself up for all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48667	Ambassador Gordana Pop Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48668	Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I wish we Serbian radicals were wrong, but unfortunately, it is shown and proved that we were always right when we warned that the government should not go in any direction that would only make the administration or the state apparatus so gross that it is unbearable for a country that is in such a difficult economic situation. This is not related to the economic crisis, to the global economic crisis, because as serious economists say, we will feel the effects of this serious economic crisis only in 2012. That's what I'm saying because our citizens need to know what's waiting for them and that the belts will just come in, so they don't fall for some colorful lie again, that something will come up from somewhere, land, honey and milk, or something like that, because we're going to be going from 2011 to the pre-election year and we can expect, of course, to go that way. In a country where most of the working-age population does not work from the number that works and where we have over a million and 300 thousand pensioners, it is little and ungrateful to talk about the salaries of government officials because whenever you mention to them the administration, the civil servants and the tenants, they think that they are people who do nothing and who sit in warm offices and receive fine salaries. Although there is a lot of illogicalness, even though these wage ranges are unbearable to us, for 1:9 should not be. The mass that is set aside for wages, you say it's 1.6 billion, we don't know by what criteria you've come to that figure since we expected to talk about the budget first, and only then this one law. So, we're actually starting this story now, but we're going to continue to discuss the budget itself. Now, how effective our government is, and it's part of the entire administration, and it's made up of the government's authorities, we see that our budget is a month late. Now someone would need the penalty points to be there, when you get all the grades, there in the government and a little lower grades than you thought you'd deserve. It would be the right way to reward for work and for merit, this is how it goes along the party line. Unfortunately, we have to realize that for years we've been a party state, which can't give any quality in the administration. Serious countries and how they make sure that they nurture a good, quality, efficient administration, which would, of course, have stimulating salaries, because that is one way to keep good staff. We wouldn't have had the largest number of highly educated people going abroad, especially not as many with master's and doctoral titles. Well, that's what's been happening to us lately, even though we've been promised a lot for the past 10 years. It would be good if Minister Markovic started his opening speech in front of this law with some data, let's say, how many officials there were in 2000, how many there are now, so let's see what the relationship is and why it came about. Did someone make us do that? Is it because we are going to the EU, so it conditiones us to form various regulatory bodies in the form of agencies, directorates, directorates, we no longer know what we have. Every time, here's my colleagues mentioned it, we just can't not mention it, because we kept saying it was a double business, every amendment we had was whenever it was an agency. It should be the ministry's job and then some ministry for the job increases the number of employees for a number of people, but it's still less than it is in that new regulatory body, and it's better control. Now, you've heard the example Mr. Stevanovic, my colleague, said about the salaries of some of the directors of the agencies, up to 200,000 dinars. I'm sorry, however, there can be no law in this country on the salaries of appointed and appointed persons, the law on salaries in state authorities and public services, the law on salaries that regulate salaries of employees in local self-government, who are completely out of this system because they are not state officials. Why didn't they? No one can explain. They could be, uh, doing part-time jobs. So it's a total chaos of government. This shows that there is no system, that there is no vision of how this pyramid should be arranged in the state when it comes to civil servants. If we knew that, I think it would be very easy then, by determining the amount of money we have for these purposes, we could say whether it's 1:4, 1:5, 1:6 or not. But given that today's really very small number of people can say -- I have a good salary, I can live well on it, because although statistics say something else and says the average salary is this big, so it's 34,000, so I don't know what, statistics is one lying discipline, I don't even call it science, and I don't think even those who get it much better than I do, because then we couldn't have the standard falling by 25%. Look, if, for example, you had the number of employees in 2000 twice as big as it is now, so you shared it with the total mass of wages, of course you had a lower average. Well, you have a much smaller number of employees now, so when you share that amount of pay, say, with this number of employees, who are employed today, you get a higher average. That's one trick. How many families in which one is employed, not two, as it used to be? How many families in which no one is employed, how many are those who work on black and how, unfortunately, young people who look forward to being taken by a bank or a state authority or by a private firm to volunteer for a year, to learn something and then get it, so that they can say the pedal, and they take new, so-called students and experts and again a year to pay nothing. That's how it goes round. What are we doing? Our young people get smart and get away from us after two or three years. It's a waste. We lost huge money from the budget, spent it on schooling, the state, the parents, but it's all one thing, because our budget is one, we train them together, we lose them, and we go to college. What's our biggest problem? Business. We can't improve the position of those health care employees, not in education, not civil servants, not the tenants, not those who are employed in local self-government, if we don't strengthen the economy. We know that for 2011, you have an ulcalculated Telekom, to fill all the holes and for 2012, you have no idea what you would do if you stayed in power. Those who come after you will be able to pull their hair off their heads because there's nothing left to sell. Next year, huge interest rates and principals are already coming in to those of whom we've been taking loans. So, my fellow colleagues, to send a message to the public, not as pessimistic as objective that we have really hard days ahead of us, that this is a law where the government has shown some good will to correct some mistake, but that doesn't mean anything in the quality of these people's lives, because those two, three thousand dinars will mean nothing to them, and they won't even stimulate them to do more and better to go to a higher pay grade. The one with the highest pay grade is underpaid. So the question here is how do we get past the general crisis we're in. I'm not going to make an example of us MPs, because the information is constantly being downloaded that we don't know how rich people are and we have huge salaries, and I don't know what. We all know that's not true. To live very hard and share the fate of our citizens. We have, of course, slightly higher wages than that average, but you see in every country in the environment, we have to say, the MP has at least three times as much pay as we do in Serbia. We don't object. Don't say, that's why we're going to reduce the number of MPs, because democracy is expensive for us. Democracy is never expensive. It can be a expensive, inefficient state or executive power, but democracy and parliament can't be expensive. You see, if this House were to reflect the image of our society, you must have both young and old and those from Surdulica and those from Belgrade and those from Subotica and younger and older, and pensioners, a different educational structure. That's what he's asking for, and he's asking for this number of MPs. Those who collect some signatures there to reduce the number of MPs, fraud is great. That fraud will be exposed, and before it comes to anyone, don't give God, an epilogue to make a change to the Constitution. Do we know what's behind this? And once again, when we warn, I really appeal to the public to listen to Serbian radicals, so that there might be no later, they spoke well, and we disobeyed them. No, this is done again under the pressure of the West to throw out what would finally give Kosovo independence. And the public needs to know. And don't get around those desks there for signing. Now everyone has their own desires, greetings and wishes for listeners. Now Bosniaks are asking to be a constitutional people in Serbia. It's not. Is there anyone smart in this country to explain what it is, what it can, what it can't be, what the state wants us to do, or are we going to do as others tell us everything in favor of their own damage? It seems that the ruling nomenclature has been fueled by the wishes of those who don't think well of us, and we can read that from the press these days. And we have no reaction from the ruling nomenclature, which is even worse. Here's to Thaci, and we should have, to show that seriousness. To tell you the truth, in our opinion, a great fault and parliament, because it is not strong enough to pressure the government and the president and perhaps because, unfortunately, the president of the state and the president of the government. I'm gonna get over that part and then make mistakes. Of course, the little digression was about the general situation in the country, but the law itself, to know the ones that it refers to, it's not these 27,000 people who work, who are civil servants and substitutors, but a smaller number, you didn't say how true it is, and I'm not the frame to calculate it, who have very low coefficients and who are allegedly slightly increasing these coefficients. So it's about a small number of people, but it's been an opportunity for us to talk about that large number of people who work in the public sector and who work in the economy or who, unfortunately, don't work at all. All of that, of course, we'll all have a chance to talk about it when the budget comes, and it's supposed to come, so we can talk about things like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48669	Your MP group has 19 minutes left. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48670	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, there is a cosmetic law ahead of us and we spend this precious time before the end of the year, when we should consider the provisions of the 2011 draft budget law, and we are dealing with a law that basically brings a certain improvement in the financial sense for workers in the state services, rather than talking about vital things, which is the budget. In fact, it's even more tragic for this budget that we today don't have a real law that will paint a full picture of the work and functioning of the state authorities. No one mentioned today, and I must mention the National Strategy for State Administration Reform, which was brought by the Government back in 2004, which established certain principles of work and the functioning of the organisation and effective work in the state service. Unfortunately, after the adoption, no government took seriously this strategy and did not respond to everything that is a problem in the work and functioning of the state administration. What are the principles set out in this national strategy? This is primarily decentralisation of the state administration, depolitisation, departementisation, modernization of state administration, modernisation of state administration. What do we have in these six years of all these principles that I mentioned? We have nothing, because governments, not this one, but the previous governments are doing nothing to make a real reform of the state administration. The real reform of the state administration is necessary to obtain a functional state administration, well-organised, modernised, modernised, etc. We don't have a minister here, but you're going to give him a critical review of the opposition and representatives of the SRS, just because you act the way no one in the world does. Pro forms bring a strategy and no one opens any more, even those who should be in the state bodies, who are in charge, who are responsible for the work of the state administration, and they no longer open. Any national strategy to say, no one opens it. That's the case here. But when this coalition came to power, among other things, it made a great effort to be a modern minister of protection for the human environment and spatial planning, Mr Oliver Dulic, who went with the slogan – the reform of the administration, not the higher taxes. The slogan was used on several occasions for political purposes, the media transmitted it, etc. We had a feeling that this reform was coming to us now, and now we're going to go into a careful reforming of the state administration, and we're going to change the way we're going to do so far, and we're going to have access to that state administration, and the organization, and the system and profits in the state administration, we're going to do something. But there's nothing, it's just one political password that basically represents a dead letter on paper. The other day, when the finance minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, answered one question from journalists – what would be a reduction in the number of ministries and the number of members of the government, she said among other things – it is a small savings, about 150 million dinars and hardly means anything to the state. So it's a lot and it's an unserious statement by the finance minister, that the reduction of the state administration, the reduction of the number of ministries, the reduction of government members is not a savings. It represents savings and all the serious countries of the world, which are seriously considering their state administration, their organisation, their system, especially in the conditions in which the world was found in 2009-2010, which will be 2011, thinking about saving, thinking about reorganisation, thinking about a new system of improving the work of the state administration. We have the state administration locked down, barricaded, and there's no movement, and the most catastrophic salaries are in the state administration. We can hear here from the officers we meet every day that the salaries of the cleaning lady are 12,000, that the driver's salaries are 15,000, that the stenographers and dactylographs get 15, 16 to 17,000, coffee cooks and other assistant workers 15, 16, 17 or 18 thousand, etc. It's on the level of public cuisine. A man who has three or four children is just exercising his right to a public kitchen. With this increase, you've denied them that possibility. I believe most of them who started to think about it, now with this increase, which isn't small, because those salaries will go from 12 grand to 16 grand, but what about 16 grand in terms of our average salary in the country is 33-34 grand? In the last few months, we've had a reduction from 34 to 33 and something, a decrease in average earnings. Sixteen thousand, what's that? It's social aid. What you're saying in your explanation, this doesn't stand, this is a little bit funny. In terms of law-making, you say, "from this, the coefficients, as an element for determining the height of the salary, play a double role. The first is social character." It's a social character, it's a social aid. This is not the salary of a decent worker, a civil servant and a tenant. You're still saying, "and provides economic existence to government employees." It doesn't provide, 12,000 provides nothing but public cuisine. This may be rough, but these people know best what economic conditions they face with those 12,000, 13,000, now those 16,000. A similar situation is with medium - professional training - twenty thousand. Higher – between 25,000 and 26,000. A high-level expert prepares, at the level of the average salary in Serbia. That's embarrassing. Take the countries in the region, I followed it, the first thing the states did when they left themselves, they paid government officials, professors, doctors, civil servants, police officers, etc. It's about the seriousness of the state. This country doesn't have that seriousness, because it's been going on for years and there's no movement. That's right with us, not just with the government, it's in the total administration. Now I'm going to read you what it means for the state budget, such small funds in a sense, what they mean in some macrofaces. For 2005, 84 million dinars were allocated to the state administration from the budget. In 2006, 95 billion, not to read further, 182 billion were allocated in 2010. From 84 to 182 billion, that's a five-year increase of 120%. What does that mean? The coefficients remained, the base remained, only the number of workers increased. If you look at this 84 billion in 2005 as 15% of the budget, in 2010, this 182 billion, is now close to 30% of the revenue in the budget. From 15 to 30, you can see how much that burden is, just because you hired political alike. You made the state a party state. That's what this data says. If we came here with coefficients and basics to make the average salary as much as the republican average, then we can talk about whether or not it should be put down. Like this, how to subtract and how to construct a budget? Why don't we have a budget? We don't have a budget because it's extremely difficult to make and provide funds for everyone, especially the state administration. Only certain indicators in the consolidated balance sheet of the state sector. We leave in 2005 with 170. These are the total funds that are also allocated to local self-government, public enterprises, state administrations and state administrations. In 2005, it was singled out for these purposes, for the earnings of workers in the state administration and other state services, 180 billion and 308 billion in 2010. That's an 80% increase. However, when it is seen in the structure of the budget and other receipts, it is somewhere different from three percent, which is far more favourable than the indicators relating to the state administration. If we combine this data that we're talking about now, about the earnings of workers in the state administration, with subsidies in the area of economy and agriculture, then we just see what we've done. This is where we said that in the last five years, the state administration has increased the redundancies by 120 percent. You see what this looks like in economic and agricultural subsidies. A total of 650m euros were allocated in 2006, and 380m euros in 2010. That's a 70% reduction. So, we've singled out for profits in the state administration, hired our political equalists, but that's why we destroyed the economy, instead of being singled out into subsidies, and through these subsidies, we've created the preconditions to hire all those political like-minded people in the economy. We did the opposite thing, the catastrophic economic and financial things were made in that sphere. What is most tragic is that these are certain moves made by this authority, which relate to a general collective agreement signed in 2008 before the elections. The elections were in the fifth month, and a general collective contract was signed in the fourth month by the government, representatives of the Union of employers and trade unions. In the 11th month of 2008, the general collective agreement agreed and signed an annex which the employers had committed, and thus the Government for the State Administration, to increase monthly food fees during work of 15% of the average earnings. Then a fee for the use of annual vacations of 75% of the average monthly earnings and past work fees for each year is provided for 0.50%. This would be about 7,000 dinars per employee in the state administration. The general collective agreement should enter into force in 1.1.2009, and this would be in the budget for that purpose, for each employee for whom the income is allocated, we do not know, different information as to how many total workers there are, civil servants, civil servants who receive earnings through the budget. The finance minister says it is something more than 400,000, the budget is informed that it is 430,000, Minister Markovic told us more than 500,000, etc. Based on these indicators that were up-to-date for 2009, the government was to provide through the budget for the state administration of 42 billion dinars, for local self-government 9 billion and for the organisation of compulsory social insurance of 18 billion, totalling 69 billion dinars. The same should have been done in 2010 and 2011. But it's not gonna happen. Why? There's no money. We signed the General collective agreement, so then, as representatives of the union, the Union of Employers and the Government made it a certain legal term, they said "we have frozen". There was never a proper legal term like that to freeze something. I don't know if it's frozen at four degrees or minus 15, a little joke, but there's no money. There is a real act that is signed and which obliges the state authorities to pay what they have signed, and they have signed that they will pay both the regress and the food compensation in the course of work and the compensation for past work. But it's not gonna happen. In total, for these three years, I don't know if it's going to be in 2012, it's about two billion euros in total. So many workers in the state administration and local self-government and workers working in the area of social security have been denied. If we now divide that into those two billion, with 400,000 or 430 thousand, that's about to come close to 5,000 euros. Every employee in the state administration has been denied 5,000 euros. President of the Assembly, you are also denied because of that, both us and every worker. Why? Because you cheated, because the government cheated on workers both in the state administration, both in the state administration and in local self-government, etc. She lied, she denied it right, but you got the election on that lie and on that scam. Now, even more tragic is last year at this time, about the end of the year, two laws on maximising the number of workers in the state administration and local self-government were passed, and under these laws, as planned, the state administration needed to reduce the number of workers by two thousand six, and in local self-government 5,800, a total of 8,400. These were also specific IMF initiatives, etc. There's something signed, something unsigned, etc., but it's the law, it's supposed to be done in 2010. What's done? Nothing. Mrs. Dejanovic, you see, you are the president of the assembly, there is no minister to deem with him a little bit, but you, as president of the assembly, are also responsible for law enforcement. Are you now, the current law, under that law, should have left the system, is the Secretary-General responsible for these things, you should have also written a letter to the Prime Minister and asked for information – what was done with the state administration, how many workers, etc., out of curiosity, and on the other hand, and as the bearer of the highest functions, among the highest functions in the state to obtain information. A total of 680 state administration workers left the state authorities, and you made a commitment, you passed the law in 2006. Only 1,000 say local self-government. Everything else has been streamed. You made a commitment to 5,800. What does this look like? Does this look like some kind of serious state? It doesn't look like This is a playbook.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48671	Time. Thank you. Since time has been spent for the SRS, and no word has been reported from other MPs' groups, I ask before concluding a principled search, does anyone who has failed to exercise their right under Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. I'd like to inform you that tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue our work on the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, the health workers' chambers and psychoactive controlled substances. Thank you for your cooperation. [[The session was suspended at 2.00 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48672	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA NATIONAL COMMUNITY The sixth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 15 December 2010 (Second Day of Work) (The session began at 13.45 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-15-0.u48673	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs, please, in accordance with Article 88(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, to exist if at a session of the National Assembly of at least 126 MPs, we determine the quorum by electronic means. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs have found that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miroslav Markicev. He justified his absence. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Duvan Law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law in principle. Of the 127 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I would like to remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment submitted by the government to Article 8. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 10th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance tabled an amendment to Article 16. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of 128 MPs, for 120. I understand the amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, in general. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for 125. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Games on Happiness. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, for 123. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of Parliamentarian Gordana Rajkov to Article 7 and the amendment of the Government to Article 47 and that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 163. Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments of the People's MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric, who jointly submitted to Members of the 3rd and People's MP Zoran Ostojić on Article 5. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has not been accepted on Article 2 of the amendment has been submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. Of 135 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Zeljko Tomic. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 7th amendment together. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted Article 7 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nenad Prokic submitted an amendment with a correction to Article 10 and a proposal to add a new article 11. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, eight voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 24th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Prokic. Please make a statement. Of the 134 MPs, seven voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. We move to a statement on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Completing Law on State Administration Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 134 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group to Article 2. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was filed by the Government. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs – Milica Vojić – Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, in general. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the State Administration Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on War, Labour and Material Obligation Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, for 134. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, in general. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, 132 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE TERMINATION OF THE COMMUNICATION OF THE MINISTRY OF THE MINISTRY AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, 133 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the military service obligation. As we now move on to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 6 to 32 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by a majority of votes by all MPs. I also remind you that no amendments have been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will be submitted. Rules of Procedure on these bill proposals to vote only in general. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Mines of Surprises and Other Devices, Amending and Complementary 3. May 1996. Years (PROTOCOL II AMENDED AND SUPPLEMENTED 3) May 1996. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the Exchange of Funds and Documents I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on exchange of funds and documentation in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Saradication in the Protection of Natural and Other Catastrophes I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Saradics between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technology Saradnes I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on scientific and technological co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on scientific and technological co-operation. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on scientific and technological co-operation in general. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France in the mobility of young people. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mobility of young people, in general. Of 128 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 13th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the employment of members of families of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of diplomatic and consular offices. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the employment of members of the families of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of diplomatic and consular offices, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 14th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on the exercise of luxuriant activities of certain family members, staff of diplomatic and consular offices. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on the performance of luxuriant activities of certain family members, staff of diplomatic and consular offices, in general. Of the 128 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 15th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports in general. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 16th item of the agenda - Proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on visa waiver for their citizens. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on visa waiver for their citizens, in general. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 17th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Netherlands on the luxuriant activity of the supported members of the family of diplomatic and other staff of diplomatic and consular offices. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Netherlands on the luxuriant activity of the supported members of the family of diplomatic and other staff of diplomatic and consular representations, in general. Of 128 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 18th point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as amended in accordance with Protocol No 11, Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol 4 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which provides certain rights and freedoms not included in the Convention and the First Protocol thereto, Protocol No. 6 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocol No. 12 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol 7 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol 12 to the Convention on the Elimination of Moral Freedom in All Conditions. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as amended in accordance with Protocol No 11, Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol 4 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which provides for certain rights and freedoms not included in the Convention and the First Protocol thereto, Protocol No. 6 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocol No. 12 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol 12 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in all circumstances, in general. Of 137 MPs, 135 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 19th point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data. I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data, in general. Of 134 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 20th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Extradition, with additional protocols. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Extradition, with additional protocols, in general. Of 134 MPs, 130 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 21st point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings regarding the Application of Biology and Medicine: Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine: the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, in general. Of 134 MPs, 131 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a bill to confirm a health co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Kuwait. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Health Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Kuwait, in general. Of 134 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus on Social Security. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus on social security, in general. Of 131 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to item 24 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on Social Security. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on social security, in general. Of 131 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 25th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Argentina on cooperation in the veterinary field. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Argentina on co-operation in the veterinary field, in general. Of 132 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 26th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on Veterinary Cooperation. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on veterinary co-operation, in general. Of 129 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 27th item of the agenda - Proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the veterinary field. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the veterinary field, in general. Of 129 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Scientific Technology Cooperation in the field of agriculture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on international road transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. I would like to put to the vote the 1992 Proposed Law on Confirmation of the 1992 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for the damage caused by oil pollution, adopted on 29 November 1969. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. I would like to put to the vote the 1992 Proposed Law on Confirmation of the 1992 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for the Compensation of Oil Contamination, adopted on 18 December 1971. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Decision of the ESAA Joint Committee No 1/2008 of 10 December 2008 replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia, and the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999 on the establishment of a Common European Aviation Area, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Community of the Republic of Serbia in the International Parliamentary Institutions. After the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the motion to vote on this decision. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on violations of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Ivan Jovanovic, at a session on December 1st 2010, at 10pm and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 21. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010.
