ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38678	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the Members of the People to attend the session on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session shall take place on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which allows the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, to seek information and explanations on the basis of the same member. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38679	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this, I hope, direct transmission, first of all I would like to ask you to explain to the Vice-President and to the Secretary-General, since I have been insisting for the third time on an answer to one question that I have not received any answer to. I must say that these past months, I have been getting almost regularly from all ministers the answers to the questions I asked on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, whether I was satisfied or not with those answers, that's another question, but one I can't get at. It is, in effect, a question asked by Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, and it is about the financial resources acquired by fraud. Some people have been arrested for organized crime for already famous gambling games that have been broadcast on some televisions. We have information from the press that there are 15 million and 500 thousand dinars collected in this way. Dr. Sasa Tijanic, the RTS director, said around 20% of that money was paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't know how many percent of Serbia's state lottery remains, so I asked – what about these funds? Why aren't they blocked? That's the first question. The second question, I hope you'll do me the courtesy of the answer, what do you think you're doing, I want to remind the citizens that the president of the assembly is one minister and warned, maybe a little unfairly, but she warned because she didn't answer any of the questions she allegedly didn't answer? The notice I seek today on 13 April, I would like to remind all the public, all the MPs, that according to the announcements of the Ministry of Health, Minister of Health Mr Milosavljevic, Predrag Kon and other teams, in mid-April is the highlight of the swine flu epidemic. It is good to recall what was told to the citizens and the people of Serbia, to remind themselves that for vaccines against swine flu, as they called it, it became a Mexican flu, spent, I think, 18m euros. We recently had a silent statement from the health minister that he was going to give these vaccines to someone. In the year when we have 600,000 people feeding in folk cuisine, 20m euros were spent. There is no explanation, no apology, to come out Mr. Minister, Mr. Predrag Kon and to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, to say that they did not do it on purpose, especially since yesterday we have a statement from the World Health Organization, where they are also withdrawing. Therefore, I doubt it was an organized fraud, so that Mr. Miskovic and some other men of some mobs could make money. Another civil robbery, up to 18m euros. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, do they have the courage to come before the citizens of Serbia? They don't have to twist their sleeves anymore and talk about receiving vaccines, going out to Serbian citizens and even apologizing to Serbian citizens for the panic they created? Imagine now, if in the fall, if, God forbid, there's really an epidemic of flu that we should all be doing a propaganda action together to vaccinate the population, who's going to trust the Ministry of Health, Minister and Mr. Predrag Kon who's the boss of a team there? Now they shut up and there's no one there. There's no one here. Is it true, I want them to come out and disprove rumors that in the extraordinary local elections in Arangelovac, citizens are promised two or three doses free of charge of those vaccines that stand, we don't know where? Who are they bowing to? Who was Mr. Minister referring to when he said he was going to give some poor people these vaccines? So, as soon as possible, within 48 hours, I expect an extraordinary conference at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Predrag Kon and all, it seems to me that Mr. Tiodorovic is also called to come before the citizens of Serbia, to at least apologize, if nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38680	National MPs, for not answering questions or not to be notified on request beyond the deadline prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and by the President of the National Assembly, and in writing and verbally remind you of the obligation of those who are in charge of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to provide you with an explanation and to provide you with an answer if you have asked a question. Since this is the third time, it seems to me that you are repeating the request, that is the only way to do the service of the National Assembly, because it is our primary job to protect the right of the Members of Parliament to receive the notice, that is where I fully agree with you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38681	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The family of Isuf Bajramovic from Medvedje stayed in Soko Banja for a long time because they found employment there, so their children were born there, they grew up there, but they were not recorded in police residence records because they were in some temporary stay during the duration of employment. Last year, the Bajramovic family returned to a place of residence in the village of Svirce where they have a house and other property, but the Medvedja police refused to issue a certificate of residence for the children of this family, which means that they still cannot get their ID card and travel documents, although they also complained to the citizens' protector. Unfortunately, this example of a harsh violation of human rights is not isolated because many families of Medvedje, Bujanovac and Presevo whose children are born in the birthplaces of Pristina and Gjilan have even more difficult problems, because they cannot register their children in the main books of the born, which means that their children are left without the right to residence and, consequently, remain without the possibility of obtaining personal documents, and thus lose their rights to child insurance and to a number of other constitutional and law guaranteed rights. Similar problems with obtaining residence in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, also have married women from Kosovo in this area, and a considerable number of citizens from this area who have previously moved to certain municipalities in Kosovo, and have property in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, have houses, and can't come again, although they fill out the entire documentation, can't get their place of birth again and potential, where they have property, where they have a house. In this very recently heated atmosphere, how many citizens from Kosovo have received passports here and those who have never lived in this area, at the same time we have the problem of those who have very thick rights and residence, as well as of the personal documents and any other rights that the Constitution and the law give rise to. I'm asking Minister Dacic's question, and I spoke to him myself a few months ago on this subject, and there is no solution. Still our citizens can't have this elemental right to acquire and solve these very sensitive life problems. The question is – how do you solve this sensitive problem in order for citizens to achieve the Constitution and the law guaranteed rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38682	The word is from MP Dragan Shormaz, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38683	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, are fighting organized crime. The question is again about the Charic case. We see it's current. We know it's organized crime, I'll repeat it as I did Thursday when I asked the question, by my definition of a combination of criminal groups and individuals from authorities or government institutions in a particular state, and only such a criminal organization can be called organized crime or organized criminal group. I also don't get answers to questions, come on, Thursday, it's still a couple of days, we'll wait to see. Let's not get any answers from ministers or from the government to the questions I've been asking in this area, but I am now waiting for a response from Mr. Radisavljevic, the special prosecutor for the fight against organised crime. I hope that, as his deadline expires there by Thursday-Friday, he will answer my previous question, so that I can continue to work as a MP, as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, and I can get to know the case. By the way, I'd like to meet a fellow member of the Committee on Defence and Security from the ruling majority if we don't have a president, that committee is now chaired by a deputy from the ruling majority, which, in my opinion, is the most important committee in the Assembly. A good parliamentary practice is that it is presided over by someone from the opposition. We have a really awkward situation to say the police are led by a minister who is a member of the SPS, and now the board should lead a SPS member, the same would be to lead the DS, as the defence minister is from the DS. In full capacity, and I hope that other colleagues from the opposition parties will also work as a member of that committee only when we get that good practice, and until then, of course, only when we have these important topics or reports from these ministries on the agenda. We see that the clan or organized group of Saric threatens, we even heard that kind of notification yesterday, threatens state officials, threatens the president of the state, Boris Tadic. I simply don't understand how someone is announcing on television that he's getting an increase in security, so they want to inform those who threaten to organize better if they want to get to him, which is pretty unprofessional and strange, nowhere in the world does something like that, or it's what DS loves again, which is political marketing, without any real danger. I would like the president of the state, as an institution, to be truly well protected. We hear that this is happening because in this organized group, they recognized Boris Tadic as the man who fights most organised crime. I would prefer, as a People's MP, that they felt it on their skins than they recognized it was he who wanted to do it, but it's a good situation as it is. We hope it will be better and they will feel it on their skin and will not be walking around the world doing their jobs. The specific question now is for the Minister of Agriculture. According to our laws, the competent ministry in the privatisation process gives an opinion on how a company will be privatised. In 2009, Sharici, the second half of 2008, purchased a large number, more than 30, of agriculture businesses in the Vojvodina territory, as they bought agricultural land in Vojvodina. It's clear to everyone now. My question is for Minister Dragina – has the Ministry of Agriculture given an opinion on these concrete privatisations? I hope they'll let me know soon enough. I'm interested -- is it concrete for every company, every cooperative, every property that's been sold, it's known to whom, they're all in the investigation, it's not so hard to determine, is the Ministry of Agriculture, I repeat, giving opinions on these privatisations, and what kind of opinions were they?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38684	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38685	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask and request an answer as soon as possible, if possible, from the Minister of Health, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, our Eternal Minister of Health. In 2008 the Doctors' Complementary Work Act entered into force in December. So doctors who are employed in state health institutions have been given the right to share their working hours to a minimum of 80-20%, i.e. 80% in the state institution and 20% in one of the private hospitals, offices or hospitals. The law, I say, came into force in December 2008 and was applicable to all doctors employed by state institutions. However, after a short time, i.e. After one two months, the Minister of Health and the Ministry are bringing one, if I may say, Lex Specialis, an extremely discriminatory regulation, to be exempt from this law by professors of the university. With all due respect to the university's professors, however discriminatory, they have been given the right not to have the strict consent of the director of the institution and to share their working hours. What does it mean to split the hours? This means that if someone closes a contract with a private office, 80% will pay for it to be a state-owned institution and 20% of the office in which he is employed. These are the exclusive professors of the university. After that, the doctors came up with, if that's what I can say, people who don't want to follow the law, seeing that there are no instruments in control, and now they're making education contracts or volunteer work. That's funny, ladies and gentlemen, because what does volunteering mean? That means if an inspection that doesn't normally work caught the doctor in question working in a private office, he'd have the right to punish him if he didn't have a contract. Like this, he shows a fictional volunteering contract, i.e. He won't go fishing or anything else, he won't read, but, like, he likes to deal with medicine in a private office without material compensation. That's one thing. The second is an education contract, which is also a mockery. I can assume that a young doctor can be educated in a private office. However, I point out that we are in a situation where doctors at the age of 10 or 15, say gynecologists. My colleagues, for educational purposes, work to stop their pregnancy in a private office. Allow me, that's ridiculous. There was a report by the health ministry inspection, Ms. Dani Mihajlovic, who is not responding. That is the answer I ask – why the Health Ministry's inspection does not do its job, because it is a question of the director of the institution and directors of the institution – why they allow doctors to work outside the law after noon or morning, the answer is – I am not a police officer. I ask the Minister of Health – whose duty it is to keep an eye on whether or not there is a division of working time, a valid division, i.e. The legal division, as prescribed by the law, or did we pass this law for cosmetic purposes, at someone's request, whether it's because of the EU's accession or I don't know what it's for, and it's only for the parade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38686	The word comes from MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I think it's high time the Assembly did something to raise the dignity and reputation of this institution, because it's obvious that the RS Assembly came to the lowest possible branches. I think that's one of the reasons, and that's why it's important, which is because citizens see that the RS Assembly doesn't essentially mean anything, except that the proposals that come from Germany 11 are voted by the government after we break up. That this is the fact, they best confirm the questions of fellow MPs who have sent them several times, and they have not received answers from certain institutions until today. That's the case with the questions I've asked, and now we see in the paper how serious it is that even the life of the President of the Republic is being threatened by criminals, I guess as one of the first anti-organised crime fighters. Then I'm kind of in a dilemma -- that the president, an organised crime fighter, and I haven't been getting answers for a long time to problems that are related to organised crime and that would largely resolve some of the things that have happened in the past. One of the first things is about the company Novosti and the company "Luka Belgrade". I asked these questions, and I think that clarifying these issues would greatly help us deal with organised crime, because you know Tadic himself said that the problem occurred the moment Saric asked Canet to return 50 million, and this one said he couldn't because he gave it to Beka and Miskovic, to buy "News", or "Luku". Obviously there's something here. I don't know what, but there's something, especially given the fact that and what's been going on with the news company. I asked a simple question, that all the transformations related to AD "News" should be delivered to the MPs, that is, to me, to see how in 2005 it is suddenly a new ownership structure in "News". How is that possible, people? Now I'm informing you, and I'm notifying the public, there are data for every news shareholder until then, how much was his share in the News. Now someone once took a piece of paper, deprived some of that ownership piece. Let's see who was above the law at that point. I don't get that answer until today. I asked the question – what companies are privatizing "News", whose money are they and where are they from? There's nothing to this day. I'm amazed. The president of the ZES parliamentary group has twice asked the government about "Luka Belgrade". Let's do what I do, the opposition, but imagine when they don't appreciate the ruling majority. They're not afraid of anyone. What do they care about the ruling majority? Now the question arises – what is this reason, Mrs. Kolundzija, that they do not answer to you today from the government how is the "Luka Belgrade" privatized? Then I seriously think that they may not be in line with those who privatised "Luka Belgrade" or those who conduct them, that here the essential government is only a front for tycoons or typhoons, as they already call them, which essentially govern this country. I appeal to you, let us see, how can "Luka Belgrade" be privatised by companies founded with 31,000 euros, so that by today we do not get an answer – how much "Luka Belgrade" in 2005 did she have in her foreign currency accounts at the National Bank? Is it true she had 42,300,000 euros? These are unspeakable thieves who do what they do. This really goes beyond any possible limit. And if you thought you were gonna take a shift from the Defense and Security Committee to stop trying to get rid of some things, you were wrong. Every Tuesday, that minimum time we have at our disposal, we're going to try to let you know that we're not going to get past this, and you're going to have to open this question once, as you're now opening up with PIC Zemun and some other, but not to cover up these previous affairs, but you're going to have to do with the right things to go out into the light of day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38688	The time at your disposal has been used. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to meet the Assembly and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia that I was visiting Bujanovac and that I met with the Roma community in the settlement Morava 76 and Miroslav Vojković Sale, where there is no essential need for the lives of these citizens, which is – the asphalting of the streets. People live there in a very difficult state, economically and socially. I also want to meet the Assembly and certain institutions, so that Roma are not regularly receiving guaranteed social incomes under the law, but receiving them with a delay of up to two or three months. I would also like to point out that internally displaced persons have been living in the settlement of Salvatore in Bujanovac since 91 years under some camps, under some cyrades, nylons, and nothing has been done since 1991 until today. I believe that we Roma in this community are as respected a nation as everyone else and I appeal to the institutions and local self-government of Bujanovac - to finally get rid of the asphalting of those streets. There's a lot of kids, there's a lot of citizens, when it rains, when it's a storm, it's a very difficult life. It's like this, too, social misery and everything else is in a difficult position, when we don't have paved streets, when we have mud, when we have everything I've seen, it's even harder. That's why I'm calling for this situation to be resolved. I will also visit the president of the local self-government in Bujanovac and the minister for Kosovo soon and ask for this to be resolved. I also ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to resolve regular incomes for the socially endangered population.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38690	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else entitled under Article 235, to participate in this part of the session's course, reporting for a word? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for meetings, in addition to the representatives of Proposor Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, Nebojja Bradic, Minister of Culture, and Svetozar Čiplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Meetings Attending and Vladna Jović, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Gradimir Nenadovic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojicicicic and Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Local Government, Dušica Zivković and Natasa Vuković-Lesandrić, Assistant Minister of Culture, Snezana Pečenčić, Head of the Department for Normalial Affairs in Media and Asja Druž-Muntean Development of International Culture, International Programmes and the European Development of the European Development of the European Development of the Europeans of Cultures, National Assembly of Cultures, National Assembly, the National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly, National Assembly of the President of the President of the President of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, Mr Slav Slav Slav Slav Slav Slav Slav Slav Slava Mil Slava Mil Slava Mil Slava Milo of the Minister of Slavica Milo Milo Milo Milo Milo Milo Milo-Djuvić-Dulj, Minister of the Ministry, Minister of Ljubljana-Duić-De-Duić-De-Duić-Djan Djan Djan Djan Djan Djan Djan Djan Dejan Dejan Djan Djan Djan Djan Djavić-Djan Djan Djavić Dejan Djan Djan Djan Djan Djavić Djavić Djavić Djanjjavić-Djan We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to point 15-20 and 61-62 of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAWS ON THE AUTHORITIES OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE LAWS AND OF THE PUBLICATIONS AND OF THE AUTHORITIES AND OF THE AUTHORITIES OF THE "FORE GOVERNMENTAL GOVERNMENTS OF THE SERBIA", MARKING THE DAY OF PUBLICATION OF THE SERVEMENT OF THE CONVENTION OF THE NUTERIAL CULTURAL AND OF THE UNIFORMITY OF THE SECURITAL AND THE CONCERNATION OF THE CONVENTION OF THE PURRATION OF THE OLD CULTURAL I NUTURAL I NECURAL I COUNTER AND THE BOX OF THE SECURRATION The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs of the MPs, and that is: Parliament's Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament's group G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament's group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group - JS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Publish group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Đuro Peric, MP of the PUPS; MP Miletic Mihajlović, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Jovan Palalic, MP of the DSS; MP Sasa Milenic, MP of the G17 Plus Parliament Group; MP of Gorica Mojović, MP for European Serbia, and MP Aleksandar Martinovic of the SRS. In accordance with Article 142(2), Article 152(3) and Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on General Administrative Procedure; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Official Use of Language and Letters; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and on the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Marking of the Day of Grieves in the Territories of the Republic of Serbia; - Proposal for a Decision on the determination of an Old and Rare Book of Crucial Heritage for Society. Do the proposing representatives, Ministers Milan Markovic, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Nebojsa Bradic and Svetozar Ciplic want a word? The word has a culture minister Nebojsa Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38691	Practice has shown that the ministry responsible for public information affairs does not have any mechanisms that allow timely response to violations made by broadcasting broadcasters by disregarding the provisions of the Law to mark the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In order to successfully monitor the implementation of this law, it is necessary for the competent ministry to organise a service that monitors the work of broadcasters and the formation of such services would create a question of funds, technical equipment and would certainly require demanding financial provisions. In this direction, given that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia under the Law on Broadcasting already provides for the existence of an organisation that exercises public authority, the Republic Broadcasting Agency, whose jurisdiction includes monitoring of the work of the broadcaster, is considered to be inequitable and economically unwarranted to form, within the framework of the Ministry of Information Affairs and the service that would carry out this type of surveillance. Double jobs would be very expensive and would be a burden on the budget. Compared to the other points represented by the Ministry of Culture, I will look only briefly at the important items in relation to cultural heritage. One of the first is an explanation that I'm going to give you in a few sentences, and regarding the determination of an old and rare book for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. The practice is that the Ministry of Culture, in collaboration with the national library, the Library of the Pećke Patriarchy and the Library is manifested by the High Decani, determines the list of books that will be added as culturally well to this list that already exists. From 1979 to today, there are 1,958 books on this list, which means that, with the additional 310 we propose to the National Assembly to put on this list, in the care of the old and rare book as a cultural good this year 2,268 rare and valuable books kept by these institutions. One of the two important conventions proposed by the Ministry of Culture is the Convention on Intangible Cultural Heritage, which was adopted in Paris in 2003, and we would be somewhere around 120 countries that would accept and adopt this Convention. Why is the Immaterial Heritage Convention important? Not only because of the entry of immaterial cultural heritage on the UNESCO list, which is an important priority and activity and the Ministry of Culture as much as the competent institutions, but because of different concerns about the immaterial cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is something that, we all know, disappears with carelessness and people. People who are bearers of cultural heritage disappear, living human wealth -- living human treasures, which is great capital, and is the potential that we have to preserve, and just by adopting this convention, we will have an extraordinary potential for the next time. Intangible cultural heritage implies oral tradition and expression includes, of course, concern for the language as a bearer of immaterial cultural heritage. In addition, important performing arts, social customs, knowledge and customs regarding nature and the universe and the skills that are related to traditional crafts. As you can see, there are a number of factors that are just recommending that this convention be adopted as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it has not been passed in the previous cycle, which we believe was not good, because countries around their potentials have been developing, and unfortunately, we have come to the position that perhaps among the last in the region we adopt this important Union convention. This would be an important message not only to worry about the immaterial cultural heritage in the next period, it would also be an important message for creating a new, different law on cultural goods that implies a single concern that would be more complex and meaningful than it seemed in previous periods. One of the important conventions is the Council of Europe Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society. Why is this convention important? Not only because of the laws we will pass in the coming period, it is important because it changes focus and concerns about what is a cultural heritage and what it serves. The previous period is constantly said how and by what means do we protect cultural heritage, and what is the message from this convention and the messages from other practices, other strategies in the care of cultural heritage, is the question of why and for whom should we safeguard cultural heritage? It is an active policy that implies cultural heritage as factors of economic development, as well as social development. In that sense, the adoption of this Convention would be a very important message, in this case we would be one of the first signatories of the Convention and thus create a good basis for signing new strategic documents in this area. This means that with these two conventions we will be able to access the creation of a quality new law on cultural goods, which is a priority, because, as we know, the story itself is that cultural goods are at risk is insufficient. It would be enough to think together about that cultural goods are not just monuments and traces of the past, they are part of living culture, part of our life, the potential of cultural tourism, economics, every single dynamic life that we live and develop in society. In that sense, I ask you to support these two important conventions, so much in the coming period we will continue dynamically to adopt other important laws in the field of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38692	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38693	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to inform you about the three draft laws, and that: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on General Administrative Procedure, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and on the publication of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. As regards the law amending the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the basic reasons for the adoption of this law stemmed from the need to bring the Law on General Administrative Procedure in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which was published in the Official Journal of the SRJ No 33 since 1997 and 31 from 2001, was adopted at the time of the existence of the SRJ and continued to apply in agreement with the Constitutional Charter of the state union of the SCG as a law of the Republic of Serbia, which conditioned the need to implement the mostly termological harmonisation of the Law on General Administrative Procedure with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia at this point. The aim of the law is to implement, at this time, the wording of the General Administrative Procedure Act and to remove the discrepancies of this law with Article 198(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Certain amendments to the law are also a paper in the Bill on Amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure and I expect these terminology to be quickly and efficiently adopted. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and on the publication of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, it has been found practically by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006 that the publication of laws and any other general acts is a condition for their entry into force. The Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts and the publication of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 1991, laid down rules for the publication of regulations under the 1990 Constitution by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, which at the time was the federal unit of the former SFRJ, later the SRJ and then the state union of the SCG. After the Republic of Serbia became a legal follower of the SCG, full state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia was restored in 2006, which was constitutionally formed by the 2006 Constitution. This condition also required that those powers previously exercised at the level of the Federation, i.e. the state union, as an international law entity, are now being exercised at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Three important fields of proposed newspapers in this law. First, according to the state-law position of the Republic of Serbia, which, pursuant to Article 97(1). The Constitution, determines and provides for its international position and relations with other countries and international organisations, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws, other regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" is provided for in Article 1, in addition to the regular publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and in particular the issue of "Employment Messenger", a special edition titled "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts". In accordance with the competences of the Republic of Serbia, the provision of Article 2(3). The bill stipulates that "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - international agreements" will publish certified international agreements and other international agreements for which it is laid down by law or other applicable regulations. Secondly, as a consequence of determining the authority of the Republic of Serbia in the field of human and minority rights, which was previously in the jurisdiction of the state union, the bill provides for the European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning the Republic of Serbia to be published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and for the publication of the European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning the Republic of Serbia, the old ministry responsible for human and minority rights. Third, in accordance with Article 97(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution, which found that the Republic of Serbia was governing and providing defence, and what was also previously in the jurisdiction of the state union, was a provision of Article 3. The bill also provides for other acts by the President of the Republic, regulations and other acts of the Government, or the defence minister, relating to the Serbian Army, to be published in the Official Military List, on which the old defence ministry is issued. Pursuant to Article 6 above, The draft law requires that the date of entry into force of this law ceases to apply to the Law on the publication of federal laws, other regulations and general acts and the Public Enterprise Act "The Official Journal of the SRJ". Under the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, there was also a need for harmonisation on this basis after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. After the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 1990, a valid Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters was adopted in 1991. The provisions of Article 8(1) and (2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was found to be in the official use of the Serbian-Croatian language in the Republic of Serbia, as well as that in the areas of the Republic of Serbia where ethnicities live in official use are at the same time their languages and letters, in a manner established by law. The end of the existence of the SFRY and, meanwhile, major constitutional and political changes have conditioned that, unlike 1991, today, the legal, sociological and political dispute in the Republic of Serbia is in the official use of the Serbian language, which is now an explicit constitutional provision under Article 10(1). The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, while national minorities exercising individual and collective rights in the field of official use of language and letters pursuant to Article 10(2) and Article 79(1). The Constitution. The SRJ, or Serbia-Montenegro, whose Republic of Serbia is a legal follower, joined the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, adopted by the Council of Europe, whose member is also the Republic of Serbia. Confirmation of this Convention has provided for a review of the applicable legal solutions from the point of view of the provisions of that Convention. In 2002, meanwhile, at the level of the former federal state, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, which also contains provisions in the field of official use of language and letters of national minorities, which respect the rules provided for in that Convention. As a result of all these circumstances, a bill on amendments to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters has been drawn up to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the approved international contracts in this area. The first group of amendments proposed by the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters refers to the harmonisation of legal solutions on the official use of language and letters with the provisions of Article 10(1) and (2). The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that in the Republic of Serbia there is a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter and that the official use of other languages and letters is regulated by law, based on the Constitution. According to this, the provisions of Article 1. The bill provides for an official use of Serbian language in the Republic of Serbia. The term "nationality", according to the Constitution, is replaced by the term "national minority" in the entire text of the law. The second group of amendments and additions proposed concerns Article 11 of the Law, which is in line with Article 79(1) of the Treaty. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that members of national minorities are entitled, among other things, to use their own language and letter, to conduct procedures and in their own language in areas where they make up a significant population, state authorities, public authorities, authorities of autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, in areas where they make up a significant population of traditional local names, street names, settlements and topographic labels are also written in their own language. This amendment also requires the harmonisation of legal provisions and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, which provides for the rights of members of national minorities in those areas. However, as these rights of members of national minorities are already guaranteed by the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, Article 11, this is, in accordance with Article 20(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the levels of human and minority rights cannot be reduced, guarantees the acquired level of national minority rights in this area by the bill. The third proposed paper complements the law by introducing the provision of Article 18a, which stipulates that members of national minorities are entitled to free choice and use their children's personal name and name, as well as to enroll these personal names in all public documents, official records and personal data collections, according to the language and spelling of members of the national minority, and that this right does not exclude the parallel registration of the name by both Serbian spelling and letter. This shall comply with Article 79(1). The Constitution, which states that members of national minorities have the right, in addition, to use their own name and name in their own language, as well as the provisions of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, which provides for this right of members of national minorities. As these rights are already guaranteed to members of national minorities by the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the proposed provision guarantees the acquired level of human and minority rights, in accordance with Article 20(2). The Constitution. By way of provision of Article 7 The draft law provides that in the local self-government unit in which the language of the national minority in official use of this language is to be maintained on the date of entry into force of this law, which is also in accordance with Article 20(2). The Constitution. I urge you to accept these draft laws in the voting day and to help to correct this text in the debate on amendments, possibly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38694	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? He's not present. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Vesna Marjanović, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta, who held an opinion at the Committee on Justice and Administration's session to discuss the draft law on points 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on the committee first of all because of the fact that we are on the board and today in this plenary debate we are discussing seven draft laws within one item of the agenda and, of course, not about any laws, but about laws that are truly of paramount importance and for the functioning of the state above all, and for all citizens of Serbia. Then here today we have representatives of the government who are not people in the area that are being debated today and then ministers read us what we already got with the draft laws in order. We think it is not good, and besides, this attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly is absolutely unacceptable and insulting to the dignity of the National Assembly. Of course, we don't mind the ministers sitting here, and we should sit down and the ministers whose proposals are being discussed, and those whose proposals are not being discussed, because the ministers are here to have this kind of communication with the MPs. But it's really offensive to think not only of the National Assembly but also of the ministers who just have to read something that their colleagues wrote. You, Mr. Milosavljevic, have presented amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure only as a termological change and you have read it there is so in one part, and it is true that the wording of this law should be harmonised with the fact that it has not been done before, and I would only ask why it has not been done before. It has been a long time since we have unfortunately, thanks to you from DOS, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or the Serbia-Montenegro community, and in this law there are both terms. Of course, there's nothing we can do to arrange it. You didn't comment, and I believe that you can't comment on it, no offense, of course, for example, amending Article 214 of this bill. We have submitted amendments not only to this member, but also to some of the other members of all these laws, but we believe that when we talk about amendments that there will be representatives of the ministry who can and accept the amendment because they can understand what we wanted to say in the amendment. This Article 214, which is indeed characteristic, speaks of the possibility of appeal against first-degree solutions of the ministry, and you have suggested that the first-degree solution of the ministry or of a special organisation, or of another state body, can only be declared when the law provides. And that's not good. That's not good, you should have said as we did in the amendment that first, against the first-degree solution of the ministry or the special organisation of the other state body, an appeal may be made unless the special law requires otherwise. This looks similar, but it's essentially very, very different, and I repeat, when we talk about the details, we'll try to convince the Secretary-General if he's there to accept this amendment. The law on official use of language and letter, here you can see in five minutes no law can be mentioned, let alone seven proposals, we have suggested that where it is provided for in Article 1 of the law on the official use of language and letter that in the Republic of Serbia in the official use of Serbian language, we have proposed to stand in the Ekva and Ichavah order. You in the Government have estimated that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to now again that there is one of the ministers who can answer our question – where does this violate the Constitution in our amendment, or what is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is an act that all regulations must be complied with, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot be discussed, it provides a framework in which they must move and be all laws and all other acts adopted both in parliament and in local self-government units, etc. So, you are not good at these suggestions, and especially when it comes to the official use of language and letters, you have not paid attention to the fact that in Serbia, both the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are increasingly disappearing. That should be, Mr. Bradic, the topic your ministry should be more concerned about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38696	Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word starting from the smallest to the greatest? In the electronic system, MP Jovan Palalic was reported, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38697	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, has indeed been in a very strange way and today's debate has been launched. Prior to that, a number of questions should be referred to those who called for such a session and in general proposed a merger of these points of the agenda. Here's the consequence of one of these, completely without any order and without any basis, of the merger of points that can't be combined, or of a serious debate being held together. Of course, another problem that shows only what confusion the government of the Republic of Serbia itself is in. We have received information from the Government since 12 April on who will present these proposed laws today, and among other things, the proposal for a law confirming Protocol No 14 BIS with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This act was adopted yesterday in the National Assembly, and the government that referred us to it withdrew this bill on March 30th. It is truly amazing how the Government of the Republic of Serbia treats the MPs, that on the day we discuss such important laws, it gives us information that we will discuss something that she has withdrawn from the assembly procedure. But indeed, with all due respect to Mr Milosavljevic, I do not believe that he is competent that we are seriously discussing today the laws in the domain of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The laws are very important, and it would be good if we could get information on where Mr. Milan Markovic, Minister, because it would be important to get answers through the discussion to some of the questions that these laws raise. The general problem when it comes to the constitutionality and legality and implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law enforcement is seen in the amendment and addition of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The government of the Republic of Serbia itself, in its own explanation, points out the extent to which activity was left out when it comes to the compliance of all regulations with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We are today discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and in the context of the Government, it is said that it is in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This same government spoke to Article 15 in reasons for law-making. The constitutional law, which said it was found to be the general deadline for harmonising all other laws with the Constitution on 31 December 2008. Gentlemen, this law had to be in line with the Constitution by 31 December 2008. Now instead of delivering laws to the National Assembly that will be in line with the RS Constitution, in the political public, we are listening to the story that this constitution should be changed, the same constitution that has not yet circled the complete legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Now that you look at all these laws that are on the agenda, especially these first three laws, then there is actually a fundamental problem in applying the Constitution and applying the law to RS. When you look at the Law on the publication of laws, other regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger" you see in fact how much confusion in the total legal system of the RS government. This law is additionally dangerous because it gives the RS government the opportunity to run politics and conclude international contracts that will be past the knowledge of the National Assembly. We talked several times about it, even when there was a debate on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data, and now in a direct way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the opportunity to conclude international agreements and agreements without them being ratified not only in the National Assembly, but never published, until it is reportedly passed a law that should regulate whether any acts will be published or not. It's the opposite of the Constitution. All acts, all general acts of the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, must be published. The government of the Republic of Serbia here directly violates the Constitution. If we look at some examples in the politics and behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we can also find an explanation of why this is done. The political and overall public of the Republic of Serbia has learned through the media that an agreement between Eulex and Serbian police has been concluded. The agreement, which regulates the issue, as it came out and leaked to the public, has given us opportunities and has not been published, the state border between Kosovo and Serbia is being talked about. The agreement has never been published in the Official Messenger. No one knows where he is. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia legalizing this act with one act and giving it the opportunity to go through the so-called. Secret diplomacy is concluded by international agreements that will never be published, agreements that will be in drawers, such as during King Milan, so-called. The secret convention was in the drawer, where the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia was violated? If the legal consequences of this act of signing with Eulex and these secret conventions are seen, they are exactly the same. They are disrupting the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. How many such acts will be in the drawers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the citizens will never know about, which will never be published? By what you do in the amendments and additions to this law, you create such an opportunity. The law cannot rule out the possibility of any acts not being published. This is in the context of this conversation that we are having – to what extent are the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia respected? Of course, an even more flagrant example is an extremely important Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Gentlemen, this National Assembly last year adopted the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The statute defines the issue of official use, the exact opposite of the Constitution, as only the Law on official use of language and letter in the AP Vojvodina space can do so. It was first inaugurated that the second letter of the Serbian language is Latin, and now you are bringing this law completely upside down, to bring it into line with the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, not that it is the law that will apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia that will define this important issue, but the step and dynamics of what legislation in Serbia will look like by the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Of course, and much earlier in the omnibus, so-called. the omnibus law, when the province's decision has regulated this issue, especially the question of which concerns and touches this law, is very important, and that is to determine the traditional names of the settlements, we are entering into a serious problem, a serious space for national councils of national minorities to be able to make their own decisions and change the geographical names of individual settlements. This can create serious political implications and tensions in society. This can lead to a paradoxical situation, as defined by the law, that the decision of national councils of national minorities changes the names of places where there are no members of the national minority, if you carefully read the law, because it is applied in the territory of the municipality where the language and the letter and the national minority are in official use, in the territory of the entire municipality, where there are many inhabited places. That's the problem you're opening with this law, just because it may have been defined earlier by the province's decision, and then it's further regulated by the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and now it's going to further strengthen it, and that's past any control of the central authorities in the Republic of Serbia, such as the Government. We suggested he do it to the government. If only the national councils are given this, the question is what are traditional names, the question is what will be managed and what consequences will be caused in these areas by such a decision, and in the end, the application itself. These are topics that are very serious and that lead to major problems in society. Of course, the fundamental and important question is – how could and what was the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we would like to hear that, if there were a Serbian language of the Latin letter? That's what we were saying here when it was a debate about the status of the AP Vojvodina and we were talking about possible consequences, that it was a direct violation of Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now the government of the Republic of Serbia, then kept silent, and now such an attitude is apologising here. These are the topics that need to be discussed here seriously, because they directly affect the issue of constitutionality, respect for the Constitution and the application of the law. It's hard to discuss and talk about law enforcement now. I wish there was Mr Milan Markovic, because these days we have a serious debate and serious political tension of the public about the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, on the application of those provisions relating to conflict of interest, to individuals who are at the moment of application of the law to several functions. In several dozen municipalities in Serbia, by strict application of the law, since we have no presidents of municipalities and mayors as of April 1st, these people sit there, sign orders, adopt individual acts, and in fact cannot do so by law. The question of the functioning of local self-government is raised. Did anyone tell these people that they're not mayors anymore, the president of the municipalities? They write, demand that in some way this law be disaved, demand that they continue to perform these functions, although they have no right after 31 March to seek any request, and the representatives of the Agency said – since 1 April you cannot sign any acts in local self-government because you are no longer in those positions. A large number of municipalities lost their first people. The Ministry isn't answering. We'd like to hear from Minister Markovic, does he think that these people are still the presidents of municipalities and mayors? At the very least, who will implement those decisions that the Anti-Corruption Agency has now sent to them? The problem of law enforcement, the problem of applying the Constitution, in a series of segments of the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the general majority, arises, and at the time when acts are not in line with the Constitution, when laws that have been passed are not being implemented or are trying to disabling, we have an open debate on the need to change the Constitution. The constitution is wrong, the Constitution has been overcome in three years. The topic of regionalisation of Serbia is opening up here in the National Assembly, but what is obligations under the Constitution, they have not been realized. As a state, we send one message to a non-serious state. We brought the Constitution three years ago. Officials say -- don't comply with it, here, this regulation after three and a half years, they would not agree that there is another political fact, that there is no state union between Serbia and Montenegro, so that it does not appear in this important law name of Montenegro, otherwise it would never have been in line. In addition, it is still a question for Minister Markovic, Mr Milosavljevic certainly cannot give the answer, why do we not have a new law on general administrative procedure? We had a debate here a few months ago about the Law on General Administrative Disputes, which should be a law that follows from the General Administrative Procedure Act, and no, we have a new Law on Administrative Disputes, it's important, but it's less important, and here we agree with the Constitution of the Law on General Administrative Procedure. These are the problems that, indeed, when viewed in general, say that when it comes to the functioning of the legal system, the functioning of legality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are serious problems. We only have passwords that thousands of laws will be brought into line with EU laws, and those laws that we have passed essentially do not apply. I ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that these matters concerning the functioning of legality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the application of the law, seriously consider what kind of policy is now being conducted, that they simply do not come to us with such proposals before the National Assembly, a proposal that is agreed with the Constitution after three and a half years, a proposal that agrees with the Statute of Vojvodina and a proposal aimed at the acts of secret diplomacy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia never being published anywhere. Indeed, it seems unserious and indeed as a state we leave and give the impression of someone who, in the extreme line, has brought what he has brought, especially the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, who is voted in the referendum, does not respect. We have submitted a number of amendments and we expect in the debate in particular that, when Minister Milan Markovic comes, we will seriously consider the arguments that, we are convinced, would go in favour of accepting our amendments, and my colleagues will, within the time of the DSS parliamentary group, also talk about the second set of laws that are on the agenda today. As I once again said, with all due respect to Mr. Milosavljevic, I think the real talker for such a serious debate here should have been Mr. Milan Markovic. We can't support such bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38698	The time spent at the disposal of the mandated president of the parliamentary group is 16 minutes and 40 seconds. In order, MP Velimir Ilic. Do you want a word? (No) In that case, the word has a People's MP, Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38699	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws that we have before us certainly has a significant dimension and a need for reconciliation both with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with international documents, certain conventions, agreements, etc. For these reasons, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will generally support these laws, with the possibility of certain adjustments, when we deal with these laws in particular. Just a few words about some of these laws. For example, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which was adopted in 1997, and then amended in 2001, its application was continued during the functioning of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Since the state union has ceased to exist, and Serbia is a legal follower, surely it is necessary to bring this into line with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2006, and a whole series of terms and expressions that came from the arrangement of the federal state and state union, it is now necessary to match what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, starting with the terms of citizenship, the name of state, army, budget, etc. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws, regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" is also the need to bring this law into line, since the state of Serbia is now an entity representing its citizens and entity that figures as a special state in interstate relations. This is about the publication of an official messenger with the so-called "officer". It's a regular edition. There was a special edition before, and now there are two editions. A new edition, in particular, in addition to the Educational Messenger, is "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties, because certainly the state of Serbia at the moment it agrees with the entire set of laws with EU standards and the wider international community, too, when it is in the process of confirming numerous contracts and conventions, the need to publish such laws and such decisions to confirm these contracts and conventions. Of course, it is also about the publication of international judgments relating to human rights, as well as decisions concerning Serbia's armies and in one special vote, and that was the official military vote, etc. A few words about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Marking of the Day of Grieves in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia should certainly pay particular attention to these issues, because any disrespect for this law regarding how the general behaviour of official institutions, people etc. should be. In the days of mourning, it gives one general projection and a picture of the seriousness of the state and sends one message to the wider community as we and the people and the states, as we have institutions and, of course, any disrespect of such moments can insult both the general feelings and individual feelings of people, and it is of great importance. The SPS Parliament Club supports the transfer of competences, in terms of empowering the RRA that it can monitor the programme, broadcast programs, respect for the law in days of mourning, which it certainly does in terms of monitoring the programme and in other days. Of course, the Ministry of Culture should remain in power and responsible for monitoring the compliance of this law in those institutions and institutions dealing with culture, and the Ministry responsible for information affairs should deal with what is the monitoring of the compliance of this law in newspapers printed, publishing, newspapers and in printed media, as well as in electronic media, but with the transfer of power to the RRA. It is certainly commendable and facts, and our SPS-JS club stresses that a solution has been found that the existing agency deals with these issues, thus avoiding the production of new bodies or agencies, which would also condition the costs of equipping and hiring people and paying them. This is an entirely rational solution, and it's worth all the praise. I would actually say something more about the bill on amendments to the Law on official use of language and letter. This is about harmonising the law dealing with this issue with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as with international agreements, above all with the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. The constitutional basis for the harmonisation of this law is Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of the Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, and the official language can also be the language of the national minority, in accordance with the law. A whole series of these provisions are, in fact, such a character that it is aligned or aligned with practice and with rules or standards that already exist in other countries, especially in the EU, which brings to an absolute equality of citizens belonging to the majority people and citizens belonging to the national minority Corps, in the sense that, when it comes to national minorities, in addition to the official Serbian language, there are also languages of national minorities. Through and so that the names of cities, places, villages, topographical tags, etc. can be used. in the language of the national minority, which may be a different type than what is the general name established at country level, i.e. in Serbian, and these specific names used at local levels by national minorities can be used in accordance with the national minority language. It is also important to allow members of national minorities to use their names or name their children by what are spellings and means of speaking in the language of that national minority. In this regard, it is also in line with all international conventions. It shall be possible to use the language in official use in the conduct of administrative proceedings, judicial proceedings and in all other cases, use and the right to use the name in the manner provided for in the language of the national minority when it comes to personal documents or keeping records, etc. The problem that may be seen is not widely represented as a problem, but perhaps we should address what is the definition or simply answer the question of what is the language of the national minority. The language of the national minority is not a problem in terms of defining and giving answers to this question in most cases when it comes to national minorities, but it may occur at a certain point when certain non-existent national minorities appear on the scene of life and practice in Serbia. So, we know that, without intending to interfere in the way of editing languages and letters when it comes to foreign states, and with all due respect for their decisions, we, for example, have in Montenegro that the native language that is taught as such in schools is defined. That's one broad term. It's a universal category that doesn't give some kind of rope definition that's native language. For political reasons, there was probably one such solution that is now being designed for the right to use or learn native language, both for the majority of the population in Montenegro and for those who do not accept that language, for example, the Serbian Corps in Montenegro or other national minorities. It is also possible for a certain moment to come up with such a definition or such a definition of the language of a particular national minority who does not speak anything, and in fact, behind such a general and universal concept can be the use of a language that is not perhaps a particular national minority. Of course, not wanting to enter into some specific languages of national minorities now, because every definition of all the national minorities we have today in Serbia absolutely respects and does not dispute their right, but we also have a problem with national minorities or one special ethnicity, which is Vlasi. In fact, in this Corps, in this particular ethnos, we have the pretention of certain centres, perhaps certain bodies or individuals who may be in a position to decide, and using this as perhaps not fully defined in the Constitution, and especially in some other laws dealing with this issue, they declare that Vlaha’s native language is Romanian. Of course, they baptize him as the native Romanian language and he is now appearing and running even for official use in state authorities or running as an electoral object, so it is said that the native Romanian literary language, with elements of national culture and national history, is an object that should be taught in the middle where children go to school. I got an invitation yesterday and yesterday by the National Council of Vlach about attending on a holiday in nature, it's a traditional holiday called matkalau in Vlach, which is today, and it's written in Romanian literary language. So, you'll let me, if I come from that Vlach ethnos, I should understand what's written here, if that's my native language. I have to admit that I don't understand anything, and now those who understand or have such pretenses have to declare me illiterate for their native language, but it's a miracle that I don't understand it even when they say it. Therefore, there are problems stemming from what perhaps legislative matter has not fully defined and certainly with great attention should be treated in this part, many authorities, many institutions and representatives of this ethnos, in order to find an appropriate solution, because the official use of Romanian language for Vlach's needs, I am afraid that there could be only one cartoon in certain situations, which should play or represent the exercise of the rights of these people or those ethnicities. Because if, say, a Vlach who doesn't know the Serbian language, and today it's really rare, rarely, rarely, three times to say, but let's hypothetically take one such case that it exists, we theoretically consider it, if it comes to a state body, it needs to be provided by an interpreter, and the translator needs to translate what the official person says into Romanian literary language. The party won't understand it, so then it should be retranslated from that language or into the Vlach language. Let me just say when it comes to the Vlach language, it is certainly a language that was once, or before, much closer to Romanian than it is today, but certainly the language is changing, and it is a common fact and it is innovated by the introduction of certain expressions, by modernising life brings evolution and an upgrade of language, and then what was once similar, and perhaps very similar, it diverges in certain directions, and now these are different branches or different positions at this time of those languages. (President: 20 minutes. ) Is it possible to connect it with a shortcut now? I'm ending up with certain things that may concern this committee, but this is certainly a big question that we can't solve through this law. It's just that this is one warning and a request that we have to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38700	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Officials of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, here we are left with the "time of wages and walking, time of hunger and screaming, one letter: the time of great fasting, when the beans are ruled by his sister, the lens, the peas and the cabbage of the land." I think I have well quoted the beginning of the famous letter to the kind Haralampi, which I am starting this opening assembly debate on behalf of the G 17 Plus MP group, not just because of the mere calendar coincidence of this programming text by Dimitri Obradovic, in the monasticity of the called Dosite, with the moment when we are also discussing the shadowed sign of a great holiday for us. I am talking on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, above all, about a set of laws in the field of culture, more specifically on the law on the validation of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the value of cultural heritage for society, as well as the law on the validation of the Convention on the Conservation of Immaterial Cultural Heritage, the Convention of UNESCO, as well as the decision on the establishment of an old and rare book, above all. Hence, this invitation to Dosite Obradovic in the context of the opening debate wants to send something broader than the general legal provision acts themselves. This wants to express one political need for new enlightenment. Calling on Dosite Obradovic, a Serbian Lessing, actually wants to express one political ambition that can be updated, even at our modern time, which my party, "Together for Shumadi", has already announced, and in the context of forming a union of parties dedicated to regionalisation and modernization of Serbia, is precisely his work and his cultural character that will particularly want to protect and act in contemporary social flows. Why do I say the modern, the request for a cultural figure that we compare to the 18th-century figures? Lessing, the mention of the German writer of enlightenment, the one who says – if I have to choose between one hand in which the whole truth is finished and the other in which only the search for truth is, I have to choose this second, because first God is available, and the man is only looking for the truth. Because this principle of enlightenment is essentially contained in the ambition that the political and intellectual engagement of self-building is a condition of his happiness and inseparable from the search for happiness in his personal life, but also in the life of society. What does that have to do with this law? I'll talk about the broader and meaningful framework they express. In the order of guidance, the Convention of the Council of Europe, and then the Unesco Convention on Intangible Heritage, and ultimately the decisions on an old and rare book have this logical order from general to individual, as if they express this structure of general, special, individual on the same subject, on the subject of cultural heritage. Our cultural heritage policy has been updated in political life in general, especially as a segment of a broader identity policy. Identity is such a universal category that it does not have, as we find in the usual use, neither primarily ethnic nor even psychological origin. It expresses one logical necessity that applies to all things in the universe, because everything has to be exactly what it is, except for man. Man is the only place in the universe that, apart from what he is, he has to be what he needs to be. This demand for need, basically unidentified, is an integral part of human culture, if it should be human and about the topic of search for truth and happiness. However, one contempt for the culture of freedom, an unidentified culture, a culture of different and different, unfortunately, is suggested under identity policy on the subject of protection of heritage. This is, in fact, extremely interesting, as only this set of laws shows in normative, congregational and political practice – as it is precisely the opposite of the traditional law, much more takes care of seemingly privileged issues of identity policy. Let me be a little clearer. He says, let's say, one branch of the modern-day opening of this issue, represented by Delez and Gatari, or a culture of devotion to an unidentified, different, which they see in writing practice itself. They say -- the writer, that's the other thing. Culture and politics, integration and integration, are often accused with us right from the point of view, as if it were to be infected, to introduce diversity into the sacred and indisputable core of self-identification, as if it were a culture of relativization, deterioration, endangering the national root of identity, reasons of self-respect and dignity. And precisely the greatest destruction – military, economic, psychological – cultural heritage and heritage in this area, they have been coincided with the loudest advocate of identity policy and the opening of trenches, based on diversity and cultural ingenuity. In fact, it shows exactly the opposite, how ingenuity is as much as the identity of the essential nature of man, because in this abstract termology that I use is called "indentity", that is what is more commonly called freedom, spirit, or political language, civil society. It is the culture of integration, the policy of integration, the sensitive, the open sensitivity for a different, different, identical, among other triumphs and in these legislative proposals, because it shows that only she is willing to respect the importance of cultural heritage, from the point of view of increasing human capital, abilities, values, the importance of an individual, from the point of view of increasing social capital, the strength of the community, which relies on these values or groups, which share those values. This would actually have to be shown as a condition for the real economic advancement of a community and the condition of its pragmatic rationality and efficiency. At least because of this, and for many other concrete reasons resulting from the proposed solutions, I express even one thanks to the Ministry of Culture and Mr Bradic for his willingness – that these laws are now being updated. However, to remind ourselves, the problem of a decision on a rare and old book of exceptional importance with us is only being updated every ten years on average, and if it hadn't been done this year, the probabilities would have been seen in the next few. The UNESCO Convention, related to the importance of the immaterial cultural heritage, has been ratified only after over 120 countries in the world have done so. It wouldn't have been noticed if we hadn't done it yet. That is why it is extremely important, as a contribution to understanding the overall government policy, which is precisely these laws, strategic importance and broad value and cultural messages, to the agenda of Parliament, because this is a special additional light on the basis of meaning, i.e. it is necessary for the full understanding of the policy that the Government is leading. This is what this debate of mine has actually served, which, with all due apologies, I am fully aware of, and is not entirely in line with the rhetorical habits and customs of our Parliament. But, with respect, it wasn't so much a need to extend communication as it is, but rather a dictatorship of a single letter in a bottle, for example, a more enlightened, more spiritually powerful, more perspective, more rationally more efficient to Serbia, whose policy, which I personally advocated, belongs to with all my heart. These jobs are the affairs of the presence and modernisation of this policy, not just some sinful modernisation of Serbia which, I guess, we understood in that sense, because it was a message of this word, not running away from its identity, when it wants to be modernised, when it wants to be integrated, but only in a communicative adventure of co-operation, mediation, activity and contacts – it also has a chance to be something. As long as it's put into its own identity, it can only be shot into the void of unhappiness, lack of existence and nothingness. That is why I am again expressing my view from the position of the cultural union policy, which is being built, and from the point of view of current policies, and from my party together for the Forest and Parliament Group G17 plus integrally, according to these laws as an extremely significant contribution to the whole of the policy led by this government – along the way of Serbia's integration, its modernisation, but only by this way of stronger insemination in its own values.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38702	Fourteen minutes and 50 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38703	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, despite the fact that not all the ministers responsible for the interpretation of these draft laws are present, I will address my fellow Members and citizens of Serbia and will try to put forward – which are the basic objections of the SRS Law on Amendments to the General Administrative Procedure, and my fellow Members from the MP group will say more about other drafts of the law, or other acts, which are on the agenda today. The Serbian government, when it comes to the Law on Amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, apparently went exclusively to language, or termological changes in the Law on General Administrative Procedure and it is obvious – that there is no willingness in the Serbian Government to access the adoption of a completely new law, which regulates this important area of social life. In every democratic state, procedural laws, so the laws that prescribe the rules by which certain rights or rules are exercised, under which certain obligations are imposed on citizens, have great importance. Yugoslavia, and its successor, of course, is the Republic of Serbia today, was the fourth country in the world to codify the general administrative process. That was 1930. Meanwhile, new laws have been passed, i.e. new ones. Finally, an official version of the General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted in the summer of 1997. The Serbian government, despite the fact that since 2004, probably the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has found a completely new draft law on a general administrative procedure that corrects the numerous shortcomings in the existing law, has not defined that the draft law first turns into a draft law at its session, and then that the proposal is to refer the whole new law on general administrative procedure to the assembly procedure, rather than decided to make some more or more terminology adjustments in the existing Law on General Administrative Procedure. What are our basic objections? First, article 6 shows the government's intention to enter into the Serbian legal dictionary words that are more appropriate to this Tudjman's Croatian novelty than to the Serbian literary language. Under circumstances today, the Serbian government has sent Minister Nebojsa Bradic to explain, among other things, this set of bills. A man who, when he began to explain that famous bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information, said, "Ladies and gentlemen of MPs." If you adopt these amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, then the Feeder will be transformed into a foster parent. According to that logic, the prosecutor will be the prosecutor, the viewer will be the viewer, the listener will be the listener, and maybe the director will be the director, because it's a trend in so-called. Croatian literary language since 1999, since the Croatian Democratic Community and Franjo Tudjman took over. I really don't understand, the SRS doesn't understand the need for a new Croatian speech to be introduced into the laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Already in article 7, you are stepping down from the Croatian New Speech, but you are returning not a dictionary of the Socialist Self-Governmental Yugoslavia. That is what Article 7 says - Article 35 is changed and it reads: "The exemption of an official in the body is decided by the head of the body". Almost again, our laws will re-emerge our, our sours, our working organizations, social agreements, self-government agreements, and who knows what else isn't. I must remind you, Mr. Bradic, and you too, Mr. Milosavljevic, that the Serbian theory of administrative law, among other things, has been marked by a man whose name he has drawn from the past by Vojislav Seselj, who is Lazo M. Kostic. A man who wrote the famous "Administrative Law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia" in three volumes over the last 30 years. This Lazo M. Kostic, an unconquerable writer of administrative law in Serbs, said the word "man" is kind of pointless. He mocked the vocabulary of the communist Yugoslavia, and, among other things, he found the word "leader" among other things as an example of bad legal and political coins. When the word "man" is broken down into components, then it turns out that the manager is the one who leads someone with his hand. That's ridiculous. So, the old Serbian word that is known to all and whose meaning is generally known is an elder. It was supposed to say here - an authority elder, not a manager, because the one who's in charge of an organ doesn't run anyone by hand, but manages some state bodies. This is where the word "old man" should be used, not the word "leader." In Article 18, you say this - in Article 208(2), the words "in front of a competent court in accordance with the federal law governing administrative disputes" are deleted. For citizens who do not have the text of the bill in front of them, I must explain that this is about an institute that is called in the legal theory – the silence of the administration. Unfortunately, this silence of the administration happens very often when it comes to our ministries. Therefore, it is that the party submits an orderly application for the exercise of a right, and then the competent authority within a month or within two months, depending on whether it is managed or not. A shortened procedure or special examination procedure shall not give rise to any solution to the party's request. In order to avoid maximum discrimination, the General Administrative Procedure Act provided for, i.e. the introduction of one assumption, a better statement of fiction would be made that, in the event of a party’s request, no solution would be made to apply the fiction as if a negative administrative act had been adopted, i.e. as if the party’s request had been rejected. This situation is called – silence of the administration. The law allows, in the event that the competent authority does not adopt a first-degree settlement within the prescribed time limit, so when it is silent, the party has the right to appeal, and if the complaint is not allowed, it can immediately be brought to the competent court, today it is the Administrative Court of the Republic of Serbia, to launch a administrative dispute over the silence of the administration. Why am I saying all this? The SRS considers that the silence of the administration in the administrative procedure cannot be mechanically separated from the lawsuit initiating the administrative dispute over the silence of the administration before the competent court. Therefore, the action is brought because the management in the administrative procedure was silent, i.e. it did not adopt a first-degree solution within the legal period provided for. Therefore, we believe that this Article 18 should be deleted, i.e. it should remain in the General Administrative Procedure Act, that in the event that a first-degree solution is not adopted, the party has the right to appeal to the competent second-degree authority for the silence of the administration, and if the complaint is not permitted or the second-degree authority is not available, that a complaint may be brought directly to the competent court, the Administrative Court for the initiation of the administrative dispute. In Article 20, you have, gentlemen of the government, a highly problematic formulation which, as Mrs Verica Radeta said, is not acceptable, not only from the point of view of the SRS as a political party, but primarily from the point of view of the RS Constitution. Therefore, in Article 36(2), it is said – everyone has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest. As you can see, the Constitution does not provide for any restrictions, each has the right to appeal, and in Article 20 of the Law on Amendments to the General Administrative Procedure, the Government takes a completely opposite view, i.e. it changes the meaning of the constitutional norm and says – against the first-degree solution of the Ministry or of a special organisation, or another state body can only be declared when the law provides. The SRS has submitted an amendment and we believe that the appeal must be universally permitted, unless, possibly, if some special law provides that the complaint cannot be declared for justified reasons, but in that case, an administrative dispute can be conducted directly. This is the meaning of constitutional norm, that anyone can exercise the right to appeal against a decision which has been decided on one of his rights, obligations or legal interests. Serbia's government is now denying citizens the right to do so. Now you will have the right to appeal, but only if the special law provides that the complaint is allowed. Otherwise, you won't have that right. It is completely unclear why the government has defined itself for this formulation. Because, gentlemen of the government, you need to know that there is a syntagma in the legal theory - remonstrate legal means. This is the legal means, including the appeal, to be used when a decision is taken on those remedies by the authority which has taken the decision against which the appeal has been made. That's as much as possible. This is also possible in court proceedings, litigation and criminal proceedings, as well as in administrative proceedings. You had no reason to prevent citizens from making a complaint just because it was the authority that had to decide on the complaint, and it made a first-degree solution. Something like that is possible. In the end, it is possible that the authority that has reached the first degree solution subsequently realizes that it is wrong, but you cannot give it, you will not give it the opportunity to correct your mistake, as you deny citizens the right to appeal against such first-degree solutions of ministries and special organisations. This is a short law, of course, and there is not much to be said about it, but there is something very important that the Serbian government did not want to explain to us what it was about. So, I said that in 2004, a draft law on general administrative procedure was made. So, the draft of a brand-new law. The draft law corrects many shortcomings in the existing 1997 General Administrative Procedure Act, and these shortcomings themselves stem from some earlier times. All these shortcomings were corrected by this new draft law on general administrative procedure, which was written in 2004 by Professor Dragan Milkov, Head of the Department of Public Law at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad and, no doubt, one of our greatest living administrative law theorists. Now I'm going to read you some of the advantages of the draft on the general administrative procedure, which clearly stems from what are the shortcomings of the existing law, which the government does not want to correct. Therefore, in all the provisions of the draft law, a terminology alignment was carried out with the normative changes that occurred in the period from 1997 to later. Unlike the previous general administrative procedure laws, the definition of administrative matters was first given in this law. To remind you, the administrative matter is an extremely important concept of Serbian administrative law, because without a definition of administrative matters you cannot define the concept of an administrative act, and the administrative act is, in fact, an act adopted under the rules of the general administrative procedure. In the context of the principle of law of appeal, the principles on the inability to declare an appeal are added if there is no second-degree authority, as well as the principle of the right to appeal in the event of the silence of the administration. In the context of the principle of justice for the first time, it is normised that a new act with a different content can also not be adopted in the event of refusal, unless there is a change in the factual or legal situation. The extramarital community is equal to the marriage for reasons for the exemption of the official. The law lays down provisions that provide for modern ways of establishing organ contact with parties via electronic computers, as well as the use of other electronic devices. This provides for electronic submissions, the minutes can also be drawn up by recording, delivery can also be made by electronic means, timely surrender of the electronic submission and the concept of electronic signature defined. The law lays down a new provision which provides that it is not possible to deny the viewing of parts of the file being kept confidential, if used as the basis for decision-making. The delivery provisions include a number of newspapers that should allow for a more efficient delivery process and prevent any avoidance of the party from receiving the written information addressed to it. Until now, the provisions of the law that the party may exercise the right to compensation for the costs of the proceedings only if they have been justified, that provision has been left out. For the first time, it is explicitly normable when it is considered that there are no conditions to initiate the procedure. It's an extremely important norm. For the first time, it is explicitly normable in which cases the administrative procedure is interrupted. It's also an important norm. For the first time, it is provided for the protection of personal data, so that it is regulated that personal data can only be obtained if permitted by law, or if the party itself agrees, or the person to whom the data relate. The position of third interested parties, so-called legal stakeholders, by providing for the obligation of the authorities to invite them to participate in the proceedings, as well as a time limit for appeal within 90 days of delivery to the parties, if they are not granted the property of the interested parties. For the first time, it is normised that public documents have a time-limited evidence force, if they refer to facts and circumstances which are in the nature of the non-changeable nature, thus making it impossible for the authorities to request the re-application of the public documents submitted earlier each time the same request was made. Given the government's difficult economic and social situation, this is an extremely important paper. The procedure in case of the adoption of complex administrative acts has been specified. For the first time, it is explicitly normable that the additions to the administrative act, the conditions, the deadlines and the order may only be entered into the solution if it is explicitly provided for in the law. It is specified that the time limit for a solution is only applicable in those cases where the solution is made at the request of the party, unlike the existing law, and the deadlines are set on days, with a 30-day period of 30 days for the first-degree solution in a shortened procedure and 90 days if the test procedure is conducted. In the current law, the deadline is set for a month, or two months, which in practice can sometimes be funny, because a month can sometimes be 28 days, sometimes 29 days, sometimes 30 days, and sometimes 31 days, depending on how many days there are. It is explicitly stated that the complaint can be declared because of any violation of the material law, infringement of the procedural character or violation of jurisdiction. With regard to emergency remedies, it is provided that infringement of the rules on the right to use language is not automatically a reason to repeat the procedure, but only if it was of a significant impact on the decision-making process. Then, the provisions on the application for the protection of legality are harmonised, it is specified, in the context of the cancellation under the law of supervision, that it is a criminal act of coercion, extortion or blackmail and that, in advertising the solution to nothing, the subsequent consent of the party is possible only if the conditions for the procedure to be initiated pursuant to its request were otherwise met. Unlike the existing law, it is now specified that the execution of the solution is carried out by the authority of local self-government, in cases where it is not possible to do so by a first-degree body, and who is in charge is not specified. In the current General Administrative Procedure Act, you have one big fail-safe in execution. It is not envisaged who executes the solution in cases where it is not possible to do so by a first-degree body and who is in charge is not specified. The draft law says that in such cases the authority of local self-government is competent. Finally, with regard to the execution of fines, it is envisaged that the authorities responsible for the execution of infringements of fines, as well as that local self-government authorities carry out emergency measures for the purposes of non-state entities conducting administrative proceedings. So, these are all newspapers, important, qualitative newspapers that are contained in the draft law on general administrative procedure, and that is how six years has been chamomileing in various ministry drawers. Instead of putting the draft law in the assembly procedure, that the Republic of Serbia finally has a new, democratic and, if you will, European law on general administrative procedure, you have defined yourself for some language changes that are even much worse than the existing language and legal solutions that exist in the 1997 General Administrative Procedure Act. I must also remind you, gentlemen of the Government, that on this draft law on the general administrative procedure of 2004, it is clear that all the solutions of this bill are fully in line with European legal standards in the field of administrative procedure and there is no interference with this law to vote in the National Assembly, but, unfortunately, there is obviously interference in the Government of Serbia. Instead of the Republic of Serbia getting a new law on general administrative procedure, we will have some amendments and additions that are much worse and by language and legal quality than the solutions already in place in the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that is why the SRS will not vote for this law and other laws on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38704	The word has a letter from Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38705	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, will be the subject of my address to three points in the field of culture, the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the values of cultural heritage for society, the Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage and Decisions establishing an old and rare book of exceptional importance. I believe that these agenda points give the Serbian Parliament one solemn tone and direct us to be responsible and with respect for their relations with their content. Why, I'll explain it in a few sentences. First of all, let me start by making a decision to determine an old and rare book of exceptional importance. Under the law, cultural heritage is classified as three categories: cultural goods, cultural goods of great importance and cultural goods of exceptional importance. Depending on whether it is mobile or immovable cultural goods, cultural goods, as well as cultural goods of great importance, they establish parent institutions or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The cultural goods of exceptional importance determines or, if you will, declares the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we do today by considering a decision to determine old and rare books of exceptional importance. Why is this the most honest and solemn act to me right now? Because for the last time in the Serbian Parliament, exceptional cultural significance was found 10 years ago. For the house of Milos Obrenovic in the village of Gorenja Montenegro and the memorial complex Takovski Uprising, because when it comes to immovable cultural good old and rare books are also last found for an extremely cultural well-being far away in 1999. Why is it solemn? Because from the day we vote the list of 1,958 rare and old books, we will join the new 310 titles. As the law stipulates that ancient and rare books include manuscripts, books, and other library works by 1867, I believe that we should be proud to be rich for these 2.268 extraordinary editions. There's more. The National Library is dedicated to their processing and suggestions for determining the cultural well-being of exceptional importance. I just hope that we as the Assembly won't wait another 10 years to confirm their exceptional importance. The Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, which is now signed by eight countries, best reminds us of what fundamental European values are, as the signatories of this Convention undertake to improve the ideals and principles based on respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law, respecting these principles as a common legacy of European countries. By signing this convention, Serbia undertakes to do much more for its own cultural heritage than it does otherwise by improving the protection of cultural heritage as a central factor in the interrelated objectives of sustainable development, cultural diversity and modern creation that complement each other. This Convention should also make a significant contribution to the improvement of legal regulations, as well as cultural heritage management policies. Article 5 of the Convention states that foreign signatories undertake to "improvise the value of cultural heritage by identifying, studying, interpreting, protecting, preserving and presenting it". It is this attitude that points to the next Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage. This Convention extends the cultural heritage field to the goods and products of the spiritual and social cultures of the people and the production processes of material goods. In the culture of the Serbian people, the immaterial heritage takes an extremely important place. We are all often called to tradition, customs, proud of folk art, games, playing, building musical instruments, the skills of weaving, sculpture, potency, we try to maintain the customs of life at birth, weddings, funerals, we have traditions and rituals in celebrating Christmas, Easter, cross glory. In Serbia, there are national minorities and ethnic groups who have immaterial heritage as the primary source of identity. We're rich, but we're poor because we don't stop the collapse of immaterial culture. We do not even have the definition of immaterial heritage, no legal regulation, and the Ethnographic Museum or ethnographic departments in other museums in Serbia have long ceased and gave up the practice of collecting, recording, archiving, publishing of immaterial culture, as living traditions available to the general public. Museums tend to present material objects. This convention gives us a chance, but it obliges us. It warns us that the process of globalisation, apart from restoring dialogue among communities, also poses a serious threat to the destruction of cultural heritage. The convention was adopted in Paris in 2003, and some countries have already managed to place a series of cultural goods on the UNESCO list, both BiH and Croatia have done so, for example, on this list. chipping in Croatia, festival of St. Vlah, protector of Dubrovnik, some special songs they cherish. Can we meet on that list, take care of our unique customs of Christian glory, the way the potter in the village of Zlakusa has been roasted for over 200 years, to take care of our doctors, those skilled masters and talented performers who make the willow rod play and perform amazing music on it, to make sure that the list finds a funny and singing beaver or a playful weaver, and why not? In October of last year, the UNESCO list recorded an Argentine tango, and Morocco placed one specific market on the list. Why not us and our Homos, Timočka krajina, Radjevina, Guchu, Golubinca? What do we have to do? That, as soon as possible in accordance with this Convention and immediately after its adoption, we approach the adoption of a new law on cultural goods or at least, to establish an ethnographic museum for the parent institution that will verify the immaterial cultural heritage, to link the Ethnographic and Balkanological Institute of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and the Department of Ethnology and Anthropology of the Philosophy Faculty, the Museum of the Old Village in Sirogojn, NGOs dealing with the immaterial heritage, restore systematic research and identification and recording of the immaterial heritage and make a national inventory of cultural heritage, and to propose from that inventory the most authentic that we have for the UNESCO list. It's the only way we're going to ensure the creative presence of collective memory, just so we recognize our own identity by which we are equal to everyone and different from others, we're just going to be part of the European cultural heritage. By adopting this convention, we will take the first step. That is why I call on all MPs to vote for these points of the agenda, regardless of their political party membership, because we show that we really care about tradition, history, culture, to pay attention to our own identity as part of a unique European cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38706	Ten minutes and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38707	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to say to Minister Bradic that we will be very happy to vote in favour of these proposals for legislation in the sphere of culture, and I would like to dedicate the rest to the draft law on amendments to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. The bill has been in the assembly procedure since 26 December 2008, but the Law on official use of language was adopted in 1991, at a time when the country's political and social processes were entirely different. As a result, we believe that many solutions from the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters have been determined very anachronically. That is why we believe that it was not necessary to propose amendments and additions to this law, but rather a new law on official use of language and letters. These proposed amendments remove in some way the conflict between the Law on Official Use of Language and the Constitution, on the one hand, the Law on Official Use of Language and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities of 2002, on the other hand, and the proposed, or applicable Act on Official Use of Language and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. That's good, because legal solutions, existing solutions, will be evened out. I do not understand why another convention, which the National Assembly ratified in 2007. Is this about the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages of the Council of Europe? We believe that certain solutions from this Charter, which our Parliament has ratified, should be considered, and, starting with these solutions, we should make these amendments to the law on the official use of language. It is also discussed in the explanation of the weather correction that we want to achieve, which is what the proposer wants to achieve with these proposed changes. It is true that the word "nationality" will be replaced by the words "national minority", but there are some legal and technical shortcomings and inconsistencies which, for our unknown reasons, are not removed. For example, there's some talk about municipalities, somewhere they're talking about local self-government units. There will be chapters left in the law that only one member will have. We think it's nomtechnically wrong and inadmissible to have a chapter in the law that only one member has. It should prenumerate and change the entire structure of the law and do so in a way that makes the text of the law logical as well as the structure. In a rather clumsy way, the official use of the Latin letter is also deleted, but it is also done in part, since Article 1(2) will be deleted. The law continues to say that in the Republic of Serbia there is a Cyrillic letter in official use, and a Latin letter in a manner established by this law. It will continue to be written in the law, following the adoption of these amendments and additions, in Article 10, that when, in accordance with the provisions of this law, the text is also written in a Latin letter, the text shall be written after the text in the Cyrillic letter below or on the right of it. This one sentence will remain, and the title is the official use of the Latin Scriptures. This chapter is among those who will have one member, that is one problem, and the other problem is that in some way it is arranged to treat the inscriptions with a Latin letter, but nowhere in the law is defined under what conditions and how it is, that is, what will be the Latin letter in official use. That's why I say that only partially deleted the possibility of using a Latin letter in Serbian. The possibility has been left, but this will not be possible in application. Then you should have deleted that provision and made it clear that there was no possibility of using the Latin letter of the Serbian language. We are against that solution and we believe that a Latin letter should be left, but if we leave a Latin letter, then it should be done in a way that is practical. These amendments to the law will not be regulated in this way. It is very good in the proposed amendments that certain solutions of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities will be incorporated into the Law on the Official Use of Language. Certain solutions will be overwritten. For example, it is specified when an official use of the language of a particular national minority is to be introduced. These are those municipalities where it is already in the official use of the language of a particular minority or in a territory that the municipalities of a particular national minority make up at least 15% of the population. In so far, Article 11. The law on official use of language states that municipalities in which members of the nationalities live determine when the languages of nationality are in official use on their territory. This solution allowed the self-will of certain local self-governments, and that was not good. It's very good, and we welcome what will now be precisely regulated. It also does not provide for one option, which otherwise exists in the circuit assembly decision on the closer regulation of certain issues of official use of language and letters of national minorities in the territory of the APV. That solution exists in Vojvodina. We think it would be good for this solution to include the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, that the languages of national minorities and on the territory of certain local communities within municipalities or cities can be introduced, if the proportion of members of the national minority is at least 25%. There are many villages or local communities in the territory of Serbia that belong to certain municipalities on the territory, i.e. in which the entire municipality is not in the official use of the language of the national minority, since they do not reach 15%, but if in one village, members of the national minority reach 25%, why not introduce their language in the territory of the local community or villages within a certain municipality? We also welcome the solution under which laws and regulations will be published in the languages of national minorities, in accordance with special law. This solution existed in the recently mentioned 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Compared to former federal laws, it is good that this solution is now foreseen for republican laws and laws and regulations. I would like to remind all of you, first of all the MPs, that certain laws have been translated for a time into the languages of national minorities, e.g. in Hungarian, in 2007, but by reducing the budget of the National Assembly, we do not now have the possibility. We hope, given the fact that the Assembly has received its budget, that from next year the funds for the translation of certain laws into the languages of national minorities will be foreseen by the budget for next year, the parliamentary budget, because it is good for members of national minorities, not because members of national minorities cannot master the text of a certain law in the Serbian language, but because Serbia is a multiethnic state and it would be good if more important laws were translated into the languages of national minorities. A solution has also been provided to allow members of national minorities to communicate with the republican authorities and to address the congregation in their native language. It is the same solution prescribed by the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. As far as I know, there is also an amendment that should be accepted by the National Assembly's competent committee, that this possibility is given not only to those national minorities who reach at least 2% in the Serbian population, but to all national communities, whether they reach 2% or not. That would be very significant for those national minorities who are few. As members of the Hungarian national minority, we support this solution that even a number of fewer national communities have that option. It is good to delete the provision from the current law, under which geographical names and their own names contained in public inscriptions cannot be replaced by other names, or names, because this would mean that the names of the settlements can be used exclusively in Serbian, which is in direct contrast with many conventions that the National Assembly ratified in the previous period. Now I would like to point out some problems and inform Minister Markovic or ask him to give us his position as Minister of State Administration and local self-government regarding certain solutions that exist in the current Law on Official Use of Language and Letters and which, for reasons unknown to me, are not proposed to be amended. It is that according to Article 12 of the applicable Law on official use of the language, the first degree administrative, criminal, litigation or other procedure in which the rights and duties of the citizens are resolved is conducted in the Serbian language, and that is attitude 1 and there is absolutely no problem, which is defined. The second point is that the procedure referred to in Article 1(1) may be conducted in the language of nationality which is in the official use of the body, i.e. within the organisation which manages the procedure. But Article 15 says that the second-degree procedure is conducted in Serbian and point. Simply, there is no possibility of a second-degree administrative, criminal, litigation, or other procedure being conducted in the language of a national minority. I said at the beginning that this law was passed in 1991 in a different atmosphere, and that is why it is most likely that the members of the national minorities were then prevented from using their language in second-degree procedures, but we believe that this should be changed and I do not understand why the Government did not propose that this solution be changed. Of course it is not to be used, for example, Hungarian language in Belgrade's second-degree procedures, but why not, say, in a litigation at the second-degree court in Subotica, Novi Sad, if we are talking about members of the Hungarian national minority, or in Dimitrovgrad, if we are talking about the Bulgarian national minority, or in Novi Pazar when we talk about Bosniaks, or in Vranje when we talk about members of the Albanian national community? So this is a solution that would definitely have to change, this can't just survive in 2010. Another solution is absolutely negative, which is in some way related to this solution mentioned earlier. Article 14 of the Law states that the minutes and decisions in the first-degree procedure and in the context of this procedure are made as authentic texts in Serbian and in the language of nationality, if the language of the people is governed by the procedure. Of course, I have no objection to the fact that the minutes are made in Serbian, but the problem is that such a provision in the most direct way makes it practically impossible to conduct proceedings in the languages of national minorities, because the state expects the judge to do a double job without being paid for it, because no regulation provides for any compensation for a judge who conducts a dispute for the making of records and court files in the Serbian language and the language of the national minority, if that is the case in that language. And simply this solution cannot be maintained, because this in the most direct way also reduces the ability to conduct a procedure, i.e. to conduct a procedure at the first stage in the language of the national minority. In this regard, we do not understand why additional funds are not provided to units of local self-government in which some language is a national minority in official use? This does not apply exclusively to this solution that I was just talking about, but normally, in general. If we want the languages of national minorities to be used in an equal form of official use, and this term is used for the adoption of amendments and additions, it is a matter of equal official use of the language of national minorities, then we need to provide for funds in the budget to finance these activities. Another question – why is there no chapters or at least two sentences of one member, two members on the powers of the AP Vojvodina compared to the official use of the language in the proposed amendments to the law? The Statute of the Republic of Vojvodina has given the province jurisdiction over the right to establish official languages on its territory on the one hand and on the closer regulation of the official use of the language of national minorities on the other. These powers should be provided for by this law, so as to delete that provision from the Law establishing certain competences of the AP Vojvodina. These are some of our dilemmas, our suggestions. We expect a new law on official use of language to be passed very quickly. In the end, just two more sentences. I can't help but ask a question when Mr. Markovic is here. It is, of course, administrative districts – when will the government start considering amending the 1992 Regulation on administrative districts? You must be following, Mr. Minister, that we have certain successes in that field. We were able to make changes to the Chamber of Commerce Act, so the situation was brought into line with normal human logic. This was done in connection with the area of courts and public prosecutors. Everything's fine with the telecommunications areas. A few days ago, Mr Dinkic accepted our amendment to the nomenclature of statistical territorial units, so that after 18 years, the municipalities of the municipality will be in the northern part of the area regarding statistical regions and areas, not in the northern banana region where there is no place in these municipalities at all. We expect him to start thinking about that plan and about the administrative districts. This is not a national issue, it's not a political issue, it's a practical question, and we want to make life easier for the residents of that three-pack of municipalities, regardless of nationality. I hope Mr. Markovic is a partner in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38708	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We have completed part of the session, which has been defined in business for the address of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the Manjin parliamentary group, the New Serbia MP group, the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the ZES parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. We move to a debate on the basis of the order of MPs to apply for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 61 and 62 of the agenda. The first registered speaker, MP Riza Halimi, followed by the MP Zlata Djeric. National MP Zlata Djeric has a word, followed by a national MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we rarely have a chance to have laws in front of us that most in this room think alike or at least so, and above all I think about these laws regarding culture. What we can do as a National Assembly is help any law enforcement or any law-making that will serve the welfare of our culture. Cultural heritage certainly represents the heritage of physical artifacts and the immaterial attributes of a society that makes up the legacy of past generations, is kept in the present, to be left to future generations. I have also experienced the very proposal for this law on a rare book, i.e. the proposal to find new 310 titles under the protection of the state and hopefully, honestly, knowing and professionally and personally what cultural goods we have as a people, what cultural treasure exists primarily in the written culture of this people, and how long it dates, that this list will continue to be enriched. That's why I think this law should, of course, be supported by both opposition and position. What I also think, and I would agree with colleague Gorica Mojovic, it is necessary to approach the adoption of either a new law on cultural goods or an existing substantial complement, enrich, make new conditions for preserving cultural heritage more flexible. Culture is one segment that is indivisible in those worldly proportions, in European proportions where we exist and when we look at our cultural heritage, then we see how much we have in common with the whole world, together with the whole of Europe and how much we have managed to be authentic, different and our own. The fact that we have managed to have different, authentic and our own, it obliges us to keep all our resources, with all our knowledge and knowledge, with all our potentials, primarily human, and with that enthusiasm first in culture, to keep it safe or try to preserve it, to make it rich, and, as our colleague put it, in some ways, to choose to make some of the resources that are always in the culture missing, to preserve what is valuable, rare, exceptional, what we have and what represents us in the world and makes us unique. Of course, we know, it's a practice of all governments, not to say that it's the result of all the crises, when it goes somewhere to save, then everyone resorts to cutting down the culture first, and everyone acts like they're giving it up. On the contrary, I think that's the last place we should cancel. So many other places can be saved rationally so that culture remains unique and that it makes us extraordinary, what we should be, and what we try to introduce ourselves to everyone. There are certainly material and immaterial cultural goods. The book, a rare book, belongs to our outstanding cultural heritage that we should work on, which we should constantly discover, which we should constantly guard. We should not forget those historical moments, those terrible tragedies of history when we have lost significant foundations of our written treasure, but the size of a nation is certainly measured by the size of culture and what it has to present to the world in its spiritual heritage and its spiritual creation. Thank God, we were really lucky to be one, at least that way, of the chosen people. I expect that it will also continue to work on the protection of the language and the letter, that it is one of the cultural heritage that needs to be really seriously worked on, because we are witnessing the daily collapse of our language heritage with various language desecrations, the introduction of foreign unmistakable words, the insertion and where and where we should not, of course, and the preservation of our authentic national Cyrillic letter. There is a whole project in which it needs to be preserved, and to be meaningful, necessary, unique, to mark us as it has always marked us, as some other peoples have done with their authentic letters, and yet not to be victims of the technological development of civilization, which, unfortunately, has become so necessary in everyday life, computerization. So it can all go with each other and our culture can be preserved. In the name of that I certainly welcome and support the adoption of every law that will help the culture to be as good as possible, as much as possible, to make it rich, to help new development, to show that we have inherited many of our ancestors, that we are ready to keep it in the present and to expand it, because we owe it to generations to come, we owe it to our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38710	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, and after that, MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38711	The Honorable President-in-Office, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the laws that are on the agenda of the Assembly today are just proof that the opposition in this assembly must primarily take care of how high-quality laws and how much laws that are on the agenda improve the lives of citizens and improve society as a whole. Taking into account all this, the LDP is always on the view that, if the laws determine these qualities, in that case, regardless of what the LDP is in opposition, it must support those laws precisely to the goal I mentioned earlier. When we start from the first three laws, those first three laws are actually one legal obligation to comply with existing laws with the Constitution. So why not vote for those laws, if it's already one legal obligation? We really respect the laws and believe that the entire community must always bear in mind that the laws are the ones that regulate and determine life in one country. When we move forward according to these laws, we can also confirm that we have no reason not to support the law on marking the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or its changes. We have no reason not to support the decision to determine an old and rare book of exceptional importance. We also need to support the Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, and we will also support the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society. So, after I have made it clear that LDP has a positive view of the laws on today's agenda, I must also say that we cannot really support the fact that these first three points of the agenda, i.e. those amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Official Application of Language and the amendment of the Law on the publication of laws, other regulations and general acts and the publication of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, were incorporated into the Assembly procedure on 16 January 2009, 26 December 2008, as well as on 12 December 2008. So, too much time has passed since these really important legislative proposals arrived in the Assembly and when they arrived on the agenda, especially since all three draft laws were submitted with the proposal to fit into the emergency procedure, especially since the deadline for harmonisation of the laws and regulations with the 2006 Constitution expired on 31 December 2008. Hence, the congregation itself did not in any way comply with the legal obligations, did not respect the constitutional law that required certain legal regulations to be harmonised, or voted, and passed in the Assembly in order to comply with the Constitution. When we talk about the law on official use of language and letters, we particularly welcome this law, and this Article 4 which effectively introduces a particular newspaper and amends Article 11 of the existing Law on official use of language, in particular Article 4, which, in addition to the existing rights of national minorities on the use of their language officially, also provides that in the territories referred to in Article 2 of this Article, the name of the public authority, the names of the units of local self-government and populated places, squares and streets and other toponyms shall also be printed in the language of the national minority concerned according to its tradition and spelling. In fact, this article respects the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. However, this law also proves and confirms that it is really necessary to make certain changes in the existing Constitution, which, as the official language and use of language and letters, provides for Serbian and Cyrillic letters, and this law, namely these amendments and additions, realizes that reality is much more important, only mentions that in RS in the official use of the Serbian language. It is a shame that the Serbian language is deprived of its second letter, which is a Latin letter, all in the name of someone’s patriotism completely unnecessary. We can agree that it's time, if for nothing else then because of this law on official use of language and letters, to think about how long it takes for the Constitution to change in the meantime. When we go to the law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", I would particularly underline and support that this law, in fact, these amendments to the existing law, provide for free publication in the "Official Messenger" of the laws and regulations which are required to be published in this "Official Messenger". Indeed, it is pointless for a public company to make a profit by publishing the laws and regulations adopted by this State. If we were to say something about the law to mark the day of mourning in the territory of RS, we cannot help but support the fact that it is indeed good that the RRA will assume the responsibility of the competent ministry in charge of the field of information regarding the implementation of the provisions of the laws on the marking of the day of mourning, in respect of respect of those provisions by the broadcaster. Why is that good? I would like to remind you that last year, at the death and funeral of Patriarch Paul, Croatian television "1" and "2" has been disabled, all with the reason that it is reportedly impossible to sing and play in days of mourning, or to broadcast films that would in some way endanger the dignity of this country and the funeral and death of Patriarch Paul. I think it's illegal and it's good to have order in this area as well. We really support these draft laws on the preservation of the immaterial cultural heritage or the proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old and rare book of exceptional importance, as well as the proposal for a law confirming the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the value of cultural heritage. I think these are very high-quality bill proposals, or conventions, which the state of Serbia really needs to stick to for that very reason to improve the cultural space of this country. All in all, when we compare these laws to LDP policy, then we can conclude that we are also committed, not only will we vote in favour of the proposals of these laws, that we are doing so precisely for the people who vote for LDP, as well as for all citizens of Serbia, because these laws are such laws that improve life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38712	Ten minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38713	Dear People's MPs, I will refer to the basic text of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. At the proposed changes and additions, the DSS MPs submitted amendments, which we will specifically discuss. "The language of a nation is the foundation of its individuality and cultural heritage. "By the letter of our Constitution, the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are in official use in the entire territory of RS, but the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters does not prescribe in any member when the official use of language and letters is mandatory, nor does the criminal provisions of this law apply to the consequences of such an obligation, because it is not. The use of Serbian and Cyrillic letters is, however, mandatory throughout the territory of RS: in the work of all state authorities and public services; in the process of education, textbooks and diplomas, both in public and private universities, they must be in Serbian language and Cyrillic letter; it is mandatory in trade, inscriptions on shops, restaurants, hair shops, bookstores must be in Serbian and Cyrillic letters, as well as in all invoices, invoices and contracts; it is mandatory in traffic, signs on bus stations, airports and roads, more specifically in all public spaces must be in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. It's mandatory on television, on TV shows and commercial messages. The special state body of the RRA Council must monitor any breach of this obligation and report to the competent authorities. Before the sworn Europeans, for which Europe has no alternative, for me only Serbia has no alternative, this is my presentation of the declaration of nationalistic, unitarian or non-respect for the rights of national minorities, I will immediately say, everything I have stated is mandatory for the official use of language I have taken from the French language law and the circulatory letter of the prime minister of the French government. My originality consisted only in the fact that instead of the words – French, I replaced the words – Serbian and Cyrillic letters, and I did not specify all the situations in which the French language is required for today's debate. The French law is far more precise than my brief exposure. Unlike the French language law which provides for "mandatory but not exclusive use of French language", but the obligation accurately determines, as well as criminal provisions for its possible violation, our Law on official use of language and letter instead of words – mandatory, uses formulations such as – the official language is especially used then and then and then or the official language can be used then and then, if not used sanctions there is no. The quote I used at the beginning of my presentation was taken from the circulatory letter of the French Prime Minister, so that our Law on Official Use of Language and Letters can be said to represent only one of the many examples that show that disrespect for our own individuality and cultural heritage will not lead us faster to Europe - on the contrary. On the agenda of today's united debate there is also a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old and rare book of exceptional importance. We can be extremely proud to have over two thousand old and rare books. The books we will declare at this session as cultural good of exceptional importance are kept in three places - in the National Library of Serbia, for readers closed for years, in the Library of the Pećke Patriarchy and the Library of the monastery of the High Decani. Ninety-nine percent of the books on this list are thematically related to Orthodox tradition, which tells us a lot about where our roots are. The question that this decision cannot be circumvented is, how do rare and old books of extreme importance be kept with us? I am well aware that they are not kept by European standards. The Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, adopted at the General Conference of the Union in Paris in October 2003, should also be ratified at this session. The immaterial cultural heritage includes - oral tradition, belief, local language expressions and dialects, old crafts, arts, customs, celebrations etc. There is no doubt that their preservation is of great importance to everyone, including our culture. The problem will arise for us when we have to carry out the obligations we make by signing this convention. One obligation is to make a list of our own immaterial cultural heritage. Nothing gives the foundation for hope - that we will make such a list valid and in time. For this job, apart from goodwill, and I'm not sure there are, uh, resources needed, experts, scientific research, fieldwork. Will that be in a situation where there's no money in the budget? I don't believe it, and I'm sorry about that. Just a few more words about the Law confirming the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the value of cultural heritage for society. There is no doubt that cultural heritage is of invaluable value and that it has huge potential to improve sustainable economic development and the quality of life of a society. Does Serbia recognize and cherish – no! We need the Convention of the Council of Europe to see something that must have been obvious to us when we adopted so-called. The roof law on culture, and there is no such thing in this empty, declarative and harmful law. When this convention is adopted and is to be adopted, it will remain a dead letter on paper, as, unfortunately, most of the laws we take over from Europe. Our need to look like Europe does not go beyond the adoption of dead and prescribed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38714	Seven minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38715	Here we have one set of conventions to adopt. This is one procedure that we will face very much in the next legislative process. We will have to bring our legislation into line with the laws of the Council of Europe, UNESCO, and the UN and of course later and the EU. It will put some standards into our lives, both economically and politically and culturally. It's very important, and I believe there won't be a lot of disputes about whether or not we're going to adopt these conventions. We will adopt them, of course, because we are members of the Union and of the Council of Europe, so all of these bodies, whose members we are, we have to prove ourselves to be people who really belong here - and we will adopt them. I wanted to say something about what's called reality, it's one general relationship to culture and, of course, cultural heritage. There's a paradox, and it's that there's a lot of declarative nationalism, a lot of calling for suicide, etc., and a terrible little worry that these documents, that these monuments, therefore, and everything that belongs to the cultural heritage, are being maintained. I can't forget that, for example, in Krusevec, a city that was also the capital of Prince Lazarus and the Serbian state, there was a city of Lazarus, in which, as you know, the stone didn't burn, and it was well preserved. When Milos Obrenovic's brother, Jevrem, fell into Serbian hands and there, he decided that most of the tower would be decomposed to the kaldrmish church, so that they wouldn't hang around in the mud. So the relationship to culture and cultural monuments shows that there is no clear communication between these things. I had the opportunity, for example, to be in Montenegro, and yet, whoever I thought, at least the same cultural corps, I see in the Negos, where the small church, where the father and mother of Negoshev were buried, and the first one who was the beginner of that family, the church had not been opened for 50 years. It's all rusty, those locks, and there's grass growing inside. The outside was also healed into branches. I resented the authorities at the time, when I came and said, "Give me one piece of corn, so that at least one wall I scrape off, which I have done." I said to this descendant of the Petrovic family – now, if the Archemandrite passes here, let this second wall, and the third culture minister, clean up, so that the monument can be seen. In this pronoun of Petra Cetinjski, who is invited by every Montenegrin nationalist, who says good morning, there was at that time the equipment "Adidas" shoe and various other things, where the heirs of this house used to take it away. So there is no deep spiritual continuity between cultural goods and cultural heritage and, of course, its followers. There could be millions of examples, starting with Nebojsa's tower in Belgrade, so I don't have to tell you everything. Why is that? I'd say it was also about the general cultural level and the authorities and those who did it. We're now adopting these conventions, but here, as the predecessor said, it wouldn't be good if it remained just a dead letter on paper. It's terribly important. If we remember, as an oral culture, I am now talking about this convention on immaterial cultural goods – what would you think of us or know that Vuk Karadzic did not pick up songs, listening to these pirates and taking it to Vienna. This is what he testified - that a people, who will be so long in Turkish slavery oppressed, safeguarding oral culture, preserve their spirit, their values and everything else. This is how these first collections of folk songs were created and preserved, and then, of course, it's a huge piece of work, which was once again started by Vuk Karadzic, which is an ethnographic paper, which, with one good tradition, at the Faculty of Philosophy, at our university, has managed to collect enormous ethnographic structures. Unfortunately, it stopped here somewhere and they simply concluded that we had become civilized, that some old customs, habits, dedications, etc. We might as well forget it. But culture is progressing in one way, and that's meeting other cultures. Autochton is just barbarism. So this convention wants to encourage every culture and remind us that at the same time we belong to humanity as a single Corps and that we are making progress as humans. This convention says something else, which is that these cultural clues belong to everyone. We kind of internationalize them in the sense that we want them to be available to everyone. As for material culture, we have special problems with the preservation of some of our old monuments, double competences for many things, I wouldn't be opening this topic right now, there must be problems. Not to mention the National Museum, too, as an important topic, where our cultural treasure is being collected, and when a tourist, traveler or intentional person comes to one country, to one city, if he is a cultural heir, he will first go to the museum, because there is exactly what our culture is and this testimony about ourselves. Here around the immaterial culture there was a time of great development, something called amateur work, and especially folklore and other forms, which also celebrated a part of our immaterial culture and many artistic societies around the world have passed through the beauty of these games, so one part of our culture again. I'm afraid there's less room for them to finance culture. Some became professional societies, some simply disappeared. There's another problem, where is it supposed to be kept somehow? It's amateur cultural work that died because it doesn't have the resources, and it's the source that's actually preparing this immaterial culture that you're going to bring to the world tomorrow. We as a people can compete, I'd say, first of all, try our cultural heritage and culture. In the economy, in some other elements, besides sports, we also have little popularity or success in the world. What is important to preserve what can be saved, it means that research needs to be financed, communication should be made possible, especially now that there are opportunities to use the Internet and since there are global communications it is easier and easier to affirm our values. This question of old books is also important. There's another problem here. There are a number of books, unfortunately during the 19th century, and many have left Serbia before, in the 17th century. Some were located in various churches across Austria, Germany, and all the way to France. I know that some collectors, and some of the users of their state functions, made private collections of old books, sending emisars to these European churches, Orthodox Serbians, and from there they took these books. He needs to see who the collectors are now. If nothing else, let them sell it, if they won't give it to the country, but that list is big. Then, there are many museums and archives in many of the original Serbian books found in the world’s large libraries. We need to see if there's anything back or at least make a replica. It also needs to be collected. We have a big job to do in the field of culture, and it would be important to realize in all our long struggle that this is one way that we will be much more successful in defending our identity and defending our nation and our ability to participate in the consumption of other cultures.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38716	Ten minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38717	In this internal distribution within the SRS, I was tasked with saying something about this law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and the publication of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Before I begin to explain the views of the SRS on this bill, and on these previous discussions, I simply have to say that when we have a situation that a few days ago in this room here the biggest critics of the smoking smoke law were smokers, when we have months of a campaign where the minister of labour and social policy criticises the government for big layoffs, and then promises big employment, then something's wrong. It's not right to talk about what's called culture, spirituality, yet let our specificity that needs to be preserved. All civilizations to be stable are resting on something called a tripod. In order for something to be stable in space to have three points of base. That's our three-legged peasant. Every civilization is based on that tripod. The first leg is economics, the second leg is politics, and the third is art. In order for the tripod to be stable, all three legs should be the same length. So if the economy kneels, then neither politics nor art can be on the same level. Similarly, if politics has a shipwreck, then those other two areas are also not in a horizontal position, there is no compliance. I would ask when talking about this topic, when it comes to books and in general our language and the need to preserve some self-loathing, the Balkans is probably the busiest area where different cultures meet, and I would say even civilizations, so I guess we feel it best and we know it. Of course, everything that represents our cultural heritage should be preserved and be proud of it. It must not be destroyed, as an old interesting building from hundreds of years ago must not be destroyed to create a tycoon skyscraper or a business space. They are now teaching us that this tycoon business space represents the final range of commitment to European values, but it is not European value at all. And Europe appreciates suicide. America even encourages cultural creation of members of different peoples living there in that area, which is still called a melting pot. Simple, differences should exist, they should be nurtured. Let's cut with these big words, take a walk with the Prince of Michael and tell me where the Cyrillic is. Where's the Serbian word? She's gone. Boy, Joe, George, Po-Po, Blue-Blue. Do something in that field. Here's the first task you have to do. Look at these billboards, to understand what it says, you need to know at least three world languages. That's where you keep your Why don't you shut up? Why don't you defend your language here? Why aren't you defending the letter? Judith's right, as much as our Cyrillic is, it's as much ours and ours. You're not here. That's where you keep your mouth shut because that's where the money goes. Why didn't you introduce a tax on someone using foreign words, and the founder is from Serbia, a domestic person, paying 25 times the tax for a prominent firm? "Blue - Blue" in Serbian means nothing. "Jigi - migi" doesn't mean anything. "Tera Komertz" what does that mean? Go there to Syria, Egypt, and you will see there in their language, possibly in Russian. You go to Moscow and the Coke is on Cyrillic, it can't be on Latin. It is known when the sovereign power is. We can do anything. Then you say you fight for language, you fight for tradition. Here, only Micunovic didn't make me cry. Who's been holding the institutions of culture for ten years? Minister, do something, make our cultural movement, which is not in conflict with other cultural movements. In the tradition of every nation there is something universal, acceptable. Give us our self-esteem, which makes us characteristic, by which we recognize ourselves, by what pleases us. And then you're surprised that the kids are insecure, which the 11-year-old kids are doing, because they're watching some movies and they think it's in. It's a big subject. To get back to what I've been cruelly in charge of these party mines. We've submitted a few amendments. Of course, the present minister is not from this area. This is probably in the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Can one of the representatives of the authorities and representatives of the majority in the National Assembly say what this law on amendments and amendments would lose if the amendments to the SRS were adopted? Nothing. The law would become even more precise and even better. In what way? Which really needs to be adapted to an archaic regulation from a few dozen years ago. How do you adjust it? Well, it's true that you know who's doing what. What does that mean, "and other acts of the President of the Republic are published in the Official Messenger"? The Law on the President of the Republic sets out exactly what is prescribed in the Constitution. Beyond that, there is no need for any other decision to be made public. The next big remark we made is military paper. What's being published in the military list? I guess just some things that concern the status of a member of the Army and something about the service. The way you wrote it would've turned out if anything and everything could be published. Finally something that I absolutely don't understand. We have suggested that a member who exists in the law be deleted, which for 14 or 17 years cannot exist after the Constitutional Court's decision and these corresponds to them – remain, however, not applicable, since it has been put out of force by the Constitutional Court's decision. Have you decided to settle this law or have you decided to demonstrate some tenacity in the rejection of everything that comes from the SRS? Whatever We have suggested to you, you refused and then passed for a few months, and then you say, "Why did we disobey them in due time?" That'll be with you with this law. It's going to seem a little strange to you, I'm a really big opponent that individual decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are being announced in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. To be clear, I'm not exclusive, nor SRS. Some fundamental decisions are likely to be made, but decisions by the European Court of Justice, verdicts, cannot be in the same rank as decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. That's to be clear. As an argument not to accept the amendment, a regulation on an agent of the Republic of Serbia representing the interests of the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights is cited. Imagine, a sublegal act is the basis for law. This reminds me of that Gash of the Prince, who applied the bill when he was making one solution, and he says that, that such a solution is made, is that there is no basis in the law, but in the draft law that will be passed, if it is passed, so we imagined it to be, that is the basis for us to make one solution. It's a university law professor and he needs to teach kids what the law is, what the Constitution is, what the regulation is. That's what the government says in this answer. He says the amendment refuses because we, he says, regulated that it should be published. How is that possible? The great lack of this regulation is that something called the status of this public enterprise does not enter. Since you haven't addressed this topic, I don't want to talk about it, but "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" is a significant institution, not only as an institution through which regulations are published, and it is possible to announce that they come into force within a certain time, but also as it becomes cultural, scientific and in every respectable publishing house of importance for the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to professional publications of prominent authors. But I'm just afraid we're not getting into a situation that Martinovic was in earlier. He, a man, as someone working at the university, who should be doctoring soon, in front of whom children should take exams, gives a lecture on the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and specifically says why the children would fall for the exam, and all of this was built into the law by the government. The government doesn't know the basic principles, the government doesn't know the Constitution. So the question is, people, what do you mean by 126 votes to solve this problem? That's a big problem. You know, 126 doesn't mean it's logical, 126 doesn't mean it's possible. In this hall in 1993-1994, it was at 70, so Radoman Bozovic said – what do you want from the opposition, and I sat here 17 years ago, with 70 votes I can declare the globe a quarter. Get away from it, people. Look at these amendments and tell me what the law would lose if the amendments to the SRS were adopted. They're all submitted with the goal of making this law as precise as possible, as clear as possible, a team before no amendment is intended to interfere with anything that's regular.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38718	Twelve minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Vesna Marjanovic. Time is available for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38719	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I see in front of me a item of the agenda containing a set of laws with quite a heterogeneous content. But I wouldn't talk about the logic of joining agenda points, because there's a lot that doesn't make sense in this assembly, so perhaps the very logic of joining agenda points shouldn't be questioned. I would say a few things about language and cultural heritage, because it concerns certain legal texts or amendments and additions to which they are concerned. I listened to distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs and concluded that the language here is referred to as the category for all time. This is being abused by quasipatriots in order to achieve the most terrestrial political interests. These questions should not be consulted immediately, linguist. It's enough to look at old texts sometimes, old notes. One record says that the assembly is attended by honest Chernotics, captains, and thousands. So, captains and thousands. These aren't Croatian terms, it's in the record of the assembly in Russ. It's about the last decade of the 12th century. The Parliament was called to exterminate the bohemian heresy. The text was signed by Stefan Nemanja. Do not blaspheme Serbian words, do not desecrate the common southern Slovenian heritage and do not poison the Serbian political public with your ignorance. I'd like to add, uh, language-related, and above all, to preserve our cultural heritage a few more sentences. We talked here about big questions, about the great things of our cultural heritage. I would remind myself that here in the neighborhood, in this building, in our library, I doubt that many MPs know where the congregation library is, to keep treasure of invaluable importance. I only mention the minutes of the meeting of the Assembly Committees at Corfu from 1916 to 1918. It's in the dirty files, and these are handwritten notes of priceless value. The LDP initiative purchased luxury boxes to store those files in. One of those boxes was donated by Professor. Nenad Prokic, LDP MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38720	The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38721	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would also like to say a few words about two conventions that are on the agenda today. Many of my colleagues and colleagues before me have already pointed out what are very important definitions and the very important directions that these conventions bring us. The Council of Europe Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for society highlights what is particularly important, which is that culture is seen as part of human development and part of improving the quality of human life. What is also important when it comes to the Council of Europe Convention is a fact, although it is changing today and it is a positive change, we have recently said that the EU and EU accession will affect the loss of cultural identity, our specialities, and this is one of those conventions that just shows the opposite, which is that the EU is making a great effort and is committed to preserving cultural identity and cultural diversity. As far as the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage is concerned, a lot has already been said. I'd like to point out two things. One thing is that the immaterial cultural heritage and heritage cannot be viewed at all as just part of history, and this convention just emphasizes a very important aspect of the immaterial cultural heritage in what is today called – sustainable development or sustainable cultural tourism. There are so many interesting and different cultural events, celebrations, games, and handicrafts and all that makes the wealth of our cultural tradition, which not only carries one speciality in itself, but can also be the generator of some other activities and can attract tourists and certain economic content. For this occasion, once we have joined, or ratified this Convention, it has adopted a very large number of activities that countries around the world have organised, in co-operation with the Union, to protect and promote certain crafts and other traditional cultural expressions. There's even the possibility that certain crafts get what's called the so-called "species". The brand of excellence, which is a special stimulant and can help some of our craftsmen find a placement on the world market. I would also point out a very important aspect of this Convention, which is one of the kind of obligation that we make by adopting this Convention, which is raising awareness of the importance of the immaterial cultural heritage. This is particularly important when it comes to younger generations, who, due to urban and accelerated lifestyles, the influence of mass media, major migrations and the complete change of roles in the modern family, lose contact with their tradition, while at the same time losing the way that tradition, especially the one that is oral, is passed down from knee to knee, as it used to be a case a long time ago. This does not mean, of course, that by changing the lifestyle that is inevitable we should accept that a kind of tradition and heritage should disappear, but rather we should use the positive opportunities that today's modern times provide, which are both mass media and the possibility of promoting such content through electronic media, the Internet, without talking about greater opportunities to preserve and record the immaterial cultural heritage. I think it would be a shame if one day we said that in the 21st century, in the centuries of technology and progress, we failed to preserve, digitize, record on sound carriers, in video form everything that still exists today as an immaterial legacy not only of the Serb people, but also of the numerous and diverse heritage of our national minorities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38722	Five minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The word has an MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38723	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, of all the laws that are ignorant and without much meaning today, I will be based on the law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act. Even if time allowed me, and of course it wouldn't allow me, because the time at my disposal is very short, I wouldn't know how I would conjecture my speech if he were to deal with this law, the law on the day of mourning, the rare books, the official use of language, and that the debate would be meaningful, to be connected in some way and to know what I'm talking about. With this practice in Parliament's work, every serious discussion has also been broken, i.e. devised, very often disappeared. This is the manner in which this authority is ruled, which, unfortunately, only supports such a thing. So, in order not to waste my time explaining how bad this is you're doing, I'm going to go to law school. Dear Minister, the least we expected today to see in front of us is to discuss the unchanged Law on General Administrative Procedure. This bill had to be passed, I am talking about this proposal on the agenda today, at the end of 2008, if the minister, and thus the government, respect the Constitution. Since it is in the middle of April 2010, I have to ask the simple minister – what was so long with the amendments to the laws that we have on the agenda today, what are such complicated changes that could not have been proposed earlier, and why were we not able to comply with the Constitution in time? In addition to legalising such a course of action in violation of the Constitution, such a bill aims to continue in fact, i.e. continuity with the regulations of a country that has long since existed. I have to remind you that the last time the General Administrative Procedure Act was changed in 1996, and now it's 2010. So we were still SRJ at the time. In order for the matter to be brought to complete absurdity, we are proposing today the adoption of this law, or the Government is proposing it by an urgent procedure. What are the adverse consequences that organs, or organisations themselves, can have? The fact that a blood relative is no longer referred to as a relative by blood or a Tassian relative to a relative in a tastium. Is there more damage than the Minister, hence the Government, cares little about respecting the Constitution? If the minister does not respect the Constitution, then what are all the other laws we want to restrict the behaviour of all citizens in this country? Is there even any point in what we're doing today? The bill, apart from the language alignment, does not bring any papers, does not bring anything that would modernise the state administration, brings nothing that would make it more efficient, better, more economical. What's going on with e-commerce? Is e-business applicable to the state administration? Of course it is. Is that applied? It doesn't apply. For what? Why couldn't it have been one of the newspapers the minister is going to propose in his exposé today, which, I'm sorry, didn't even hold? Why wasn't it made more modern, faster business relationship between the authorities of the state administration and the parties themselves? What stands in the way of this government to propose and thus enable citizens to communicate more easily with the authorities of the state administration? What is it that stands as a problem for citizens to receive in electronic form a copy of the birth certificate, for example, derived from citizenship, to pay taxes, or other taxes for which the state is and how interested, by electronic means? We don't have any of that in this bill today. Citizens in this case, as the government wants to see, will continue to wait, needlessly wasting their time, in the long lines, and in fact none of the improvements in the work of the state administration will be possible. These are the changes we wanted to discuss today, not the language ones, which are undoubtedly important, but are extremely late with them. Instead of good solutions for the citizens, you only propose cosmetic changes to the laws, which do not make any better for the citizens. If we go back a little bit, then we'll remember easily what the government has promised everything in this area of state administration. Instead of reducing the number of ministries, today we have the most massive government in all of Europe, instead of rationalising the state administration, we are doing nothing on this plan today, although the deadlines for rationalization have long passed, instead of decentralisation, we have a new division of the country, instead of respecting the Constitution, we have today's announcements of its change. To be clear in the end, let's not oppose the very alignment of this law with the Constitution, we just think that it is so late that only the adoption and harmonisation of this bill with the Constitution is unthinking. We are in favour of changing the Law on General Administrative Procedure to make citizens see the improvement of all of this, for modernising the state administration and the announcements went that way, but from these announcements I see that, as well as all that the Government is doing in that direction, it retains and ends up at the level of promises itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38724	Six minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Minister Milan Markovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38725	I try not to answer too much for a word, because these laws mainly refer to compliance with the Constitution, but when this item of the agenda is used, some, I don't know what to call, a political speech of general character, which is referred to again to a public who is not too competent in this area, probably as a speaker himself, then I just have to answer it. Electronic business, electronic signatures are the matter of other laws. As a longtime MP, you should know that. It has nothing to do with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This law, you should also know that, since you accuse the government of being late and not respecting the Constitution, as an MP, you should know that it entered the procedure more than a year ago. Why the congregation now put on the agenda, that's not a question for me. The reasons for the urgency are also written. If you have read, then it was a compliance with the Constitution, which was an obligation under Article 15. Constitutional law. I don't think this whole thing really deserves a comment, given that you've run the state administration and you've shown yourself over a period of time when your party ran the state. The result of this management of the state administration is at least thin, to be absolutely clear. Now talk like it's a pre-election rally, e-mail, what kind of electronic documents, when only now in Serbia we have three certified bodies, i.e. Three bodies that can issue electronic certificates? I assume you know what I'm talking about, since you spoke so convincingly. You know what those three bodies are, I suppose. Come on, please, it's nice to say why we don't have this and why we don't have that. How many Serbian citizens use the Internet? We don't have any bases, we don't have a citizen's register as usual, as a state. I didn't notice anyone making an effort before this government did. And this government makes it based on the Law of Parent Books. This is the first government in Serbia to make a citizen register and that's the job that's going. The pilot project is already over. Five cities will be networked within 15 days. By the end of the year, 80% of Serbia will have a single home base. We'll have the birth register practically done. We may be left with 20% of Serbia's citizens. Anyway, it's about municipalities that are very underdeveloped, which have no ability to connect and we don't have enough optical cables to connect, i.e. We don't have optical cables provided by units of local self-government, so that combines different species to do so. It's a huge job that no one before this government and this ministry in this government began, or in the past, when I was a minister alone and began. Nobody started it, the letter didn't exist that way. Election list, if we're going now what we don't have, for 20 years we've had multiparty elections, and we don't have a voter list. We have a voter's list as it is, a set of CDs that we bring from local self-government units when elections come, so there's a cleanup going on. As a unique electronic database that responds on a daily basis, we don't have that. Neither did anyone remember, nor did anyone move before this government was formed. This government is the one who proposed to the Assembly such a law, this assembly passed such a law, and we will have a voter list within a year or two, depending on money. We're going to have a voter's list, there's going to be daily updates of the voter's list, they're going to be able to choose where to vote, they're going to be able to vote outside their place of residence, thanks to such a law, which you also voted against as an opposition party. I understand the need to point out the opposition position, but it takes as much as possible to connect to the agenda point and how much to be in the topic so that this discussion at least seems a little competent. Yet, the National Assembly is a place where competent discussions should be held.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38726	National MP Milica Radovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38727	My dear Minister, I expected you to have far more competent answers to what I asked as a question. I didn't ask you to elaborate what you just had to do, but exactly what you should have done a long time ago, and that's the alignment of this law, this bill with the Constitution itself. It is unacceptable for you to mention, in the very explanation, the time limit until you had to do so, and now to skillfully flee even from the thought that it was your obligation. You don't do this for the first time, you've done it a few times now, when you're talking to MPs of a certain parliamentary group, I'm specifically talking about DSS MPs and I'm thinking about them, when you've held consultations about some other laws in your area, then you've also known how to praise what was done in the ministry that you inherited, and now when you speak from that place and when you address all the MPs you criticize. I would simply ask you to gather yourselves together and say, "What is good and what is bad?" Was that when you were telling the truth or are you talking now?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38728	Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38729	There's no need to get upset. I'm trying to tell you again - the law is a year and a few days in procedure. The laws are passed by the Serbian Parliament, not by the government. It's elemental stuff. If the law hasn't been passed in a year and a few days, I can't be guilty in any way. In the matter you're talking about, very thin results. Do you even know the work of the Ministry of State and local self-government? Do you know that the law on civil servants and the tenants to whom you are calling and which I have said is a good starting point was, in fact, part-time work of the Legislative Secretariat at the time? I didn't want to particularly apostrophe that wasn't done by Mr. Zoran Lonchar. Could the ZUP have changed Mr. Lonchart? Did Mr. Lonchart bring the voters' list? Could it have been Mr. Lonchar's birth certificate? Could the laws on NGOs have been passed by Mr. Zoran Lonchar? Could the election law set have been prepared by Mr. Zoran Lonchar? What law did your minister, Mr. Zoran Loncar, propose here? What have you done in the field of state administration while you've been in power, except that the Government's Legislative Secretariat has done the Law on State officials and tenants who can't be applied today is so good that it can't be applied. I don't know what you think I praised the previous ministry. I can praise that the number of employees has not been increased beyond measure. I can say a lot of good things. A lot more beautiful and good things my previous, Mr. Lonchar, can say about me. I don't think I use it here to, say, talk about what he thinks about my work. Ask him what he thinks of my work. You used him as a government for very difficult jobs, which concerned Serbia's co-operation with The Hague. The Department of State and Local Self-Government at the time was practically barely alive. A lot of people haven't heard of it. Mr. Loncar is 90% of his statements, you'll find in "press clipping" activities, engaged in The Hague, which is a very difficult job. It's not his fault it was his job in the government. But be aware that because he had to do these things, he couldn't work at the head of the ministry he was elected, so your government is the last one who can even talk about what was done at the Department of State and Local Self-Government. Could the European Charter of Local Self-Government be ratified in your day? Perhaps in your time the agreement with the Association of Cities and municipalities on further co-operation has been concluded? Give me something, try to remember from the work of the Ministry of State and local self-government what you did while you held that ministry. Remember one thing. A strategy has been adopted in which it is so easy, I cannot find an expression to describe this lie and how much damage it has done us, which you wrote in the Strategy that 8,000 civil servants worked in 2000. The strategy only because of that sentence should be taken to burn in the middle of the square because of such a heavy lie, because our public thinks that since 2000, the number of employees has been increased four times and 90% of journalists and today thinks that it is true. So you only managed to make that strategy where you said that in 2000 there were 8,000 civil servants, and only in the Republic Public Revenue Administration worked 7,000. It is now likely a question of morals or the need to politically assess the government, which was from 2000 to 2003, or until 2004. I don't mind the criticism, if you were criticizing what we're proposing here, so if you didn't like this or that, but I'd say, at the very least, a weak background in terms of work and knowledge, I just don't think it's correct. I repeat, I have no intention of boasting or criticizing my predecessor, because he was doing the work the government had given him. The job, unfortunately, was not the Ministry of State and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38730	National MP Milica Radovic and it is the last round of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38731	Dear Mr. Minister, the last thing I expect from you, and I believe Mr. Loncar, is for you to be, with such modest legal knowledge, a representative. Don't, Mrs. Comic, react to my words, because you didn't react when Mr. Minister spoke to me in that exact same tone, even in the same words. Be a little bit, as you say, parliamentary, have the same arches for both the minister and the MPs, if not, then at least for the MPs of the opposition. If the Strategy was so bad, why base everything you do at the Ministry on that strategy? Why didn't you change it? If the Civil Service Act isn't good, change it completely, don't delay his fact who knows how many times so far. If these are bad things, take responsibility for yourself and make something better. During our government, we have shown that we have the courage to face something that is very unpopular, and it concerns, in particular, the rationalization of employees in the state administration. You will admit that during the government of Mr. Kostunica, only then and never after was 3,000 civil servants fired. That's not a sure thing to get us some points on, it wasn't popular, but based on it and on everything we've done, as a responsible government, it says that we're experiencing this country and what we're doing to improve everything we find as bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38732	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38733	I'm sorry that you keep showing that you don't follow or you don't know what to say, so run away from what you know. We changed the Civil Service Act precisely in all parts that have been dysfunctional so far. These were the last changes to the laws you were also against as a party. We've changed the way we start a working relationship, we've changed the way we put civil servants in positions, we've changed virtually everything that's been a distraction to all governments so far to realize by the end of the law. We made it lifelike, unlike the situation where it took nine months to establish a working relationship for the executive position of a civil servant. I repeat, it took nine months to start a working relationship. That's how smart the law was. Now, this working relationship is going on for a maximum of 45 days. So we changed what wasn't right. As far as the Strategy is concerned, I have no intention of positing with a strategy that is so written. Especially what the Strategy is, as I would say, those are the words anyone can stand for. It's like when you say – we want nice weather, the sun shines, everyone happy and happy, healthy, etc. So is our Strategy – we want it professionally, we want it depolitically, we want it modernly, we want it rationally, we want it rationally, which I would equate with these things, there's no need. As for the implementation of the Strategy through the laws, I am telling you, the attempt made by the Secretariat of legislation, led by Zoran Balinovac, is a good attempt, but it obviously had to be done and changed. I think at least that this previous set should have said, it's to thank me for trying to keep what was born so, with these great disadvantages, to keep my life alive and try to save those ideas that were good starting grounds, but it's obvious that such a large legislative venture was very difficult to carry out. Why it was carried out relatively inaccurately, it is now a question for those who did it, since it is a great undertaking, we do not need now to judge whether they were good or bad too. And whether my knowledge is modest or not, well, I admit, my knowledge of Mr. Lonchar's knowledge is modest. Why would I have a problem saying that? Mr. Lonchar is a professor of university, a doctor of science. I don't have any problem with that. I'm just saying that I'm dealing with the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, not counting the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, I'm paying maximum attention to the work in this ministry, that, in my conviction, to the public I trust, to the professional public, I'm doing my job well, and that Mr. Loncar, my predecessor, unfortunately, had some other obligations to do, so he just couldn't commit himself to the work that I'm doing right now, which you're criticizing. So I tell you, remember what was done in your time. I'm simply asking you, if you tell me what was done at the time Mr. Lonchar was Minister, then I'm saying you really have a lot of right to criticise me. But when I start counting what I did for two terms, I'm afraid there's nothing since lunch break. That's all I wanted to say. Now, since, as you said, such modest knowledge, imagine how much effort I've made to make such a modest capacity do something. At least say it, evaluate that effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38734	We're finishing the morning session for today. I see that National MP Milica Radovic has been reported, you no longer have the right to reply. I said it's a closed circle of replicas. I listen very carefully to the replicas and to the expressions of the one whom the replicas refer to. With the insight into the stenogram, you'll see the clear reasons why I said that by previous appearance and by giving the right to replicate the circle of replicas, it ends. Before I set a break, on the basis of Article 85(5), I would like to inform the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, until the completion of a joint principle and uniform debate on the proposals of the laws currently subject to our work. Also, on the basis of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the event that we end our work in a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals of the laws currently subject to our work, then we will end the session, without moving to work on the next joint principle and uniform search, and on the adopted agenda. Now he's setting a break. We continue work at 3:15 p.m. this afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38735	We're continuing our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I give my word to the MP, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38736	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about amendments to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. This law is proof that the Republic of Serbia is applying the highest standards in protecting the rights of national minorities. This is proof that Serbia is a positive example in protecting national minorities in the area of the former Yugoslavia, but I would say wider in the area of Europe. The special value of this law and other laws already passed by this Assembly is the fact that the Republic of Serbia does not address the fact that some countries in the region protect the rights of national minorities do not pay sufficient attention. The Serbian government and parliament have a vision that the EU is a community in which protection of minority rights is one of the basic foundations on which the EU rests. Maybe someone might wonder where reciprocity is. I am a representative of the position that we need to do whatever is necessary to protect national minorities living in Serbia, to reach the largest European and world standards in this area, and that our national minorities do not suffer because some in the region may not respect all standards when it comes to the protection of the rights of national minorities. I believe, however, that Serbia has a lot of right to support Serbs in the region in protecting rights, so not as a condition but as a decision that reads: we will take the first step. It would be very important and necessary for that step to be taken by others. These amendments and additions to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters have been implemented in the work of a constitutional provision that makes Serbia a country that protects freedoms and rights of citizens through the use of languages and letters. This amendment of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters also harmonizes this law with the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. What does that mean exactly? In units of local self-government, which will be realised through the statutes, equal official use of the language and letters of the national minority if the percentage of members of the national minority in the total population on the territory reaches 15% according to the results of the latest census. This means using language and letter in administrative, judicial proceedings, issuing public documents and keeping official records, using language and letters on ballots and voting material, using the language of national minorities in the work of representative bodies, which is not minor. In these units, local self-government names of units of local self-government, settlements, squares and streets, as well as other toponyms are also printed on the languages of the national minority according to its spelling tradition. It is important that members of national minorities get the right to choose and use their children's personal name and names, as well as to enroll these personal names in all public documents, official records and personal data collections according to the language and spelling of members of national minorities. I am also very pleased as co-chair of the interstate, intergovernmental Committee on the First National Minorities between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, which is part of the conclusion that the Republic of Serbia has implemented this law. Of course, we also expect the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to be part of the conclusions in this area and to be implemented. An attempt to abolish the right to use Cyrillic and Serbian letters in the city of Vukovar, unfortunately, is not going that way. This law also allows fellow Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to address the National Assembly in their own language. This right is given by members of all national minorities whose participation in the population is at least 2%. The same goes for addressing republican organs. Therefore, this law gives greater rights to members of national minorities and thus creates even better conditions for the quality protection of their language, as well as identity, culture and all specificities which mark Serbia's multicultural state, which recognises it as its fundamental value. The DS has always been ahead of the fight for the rights of national minorities, and I am very pleased that in the voting day we will be able to support another pro-European, but I would also say a democratic law that promotes tolerance and legislation that keeps another of our election promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38737	Ms. Donka Banovic's national emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38738	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, because I don't think there's much time left for my MP's group, I'm just going to refer to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. (President: 11 minutes and 30 seconds left. ) It seems to me that this law has also triggered the greatest interest in this set of laws. The law is short because it is about changes and additions and it consists of only eight members. These members are actually changed by members of the current Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which appeared to me in 1991. So I think, as well as some of my colleagues, that maybe I should have gone with the new law, because there was enough change and addition. The draft law, i.e. the Government, in its reasoning, says that one of the basic reasons why this current Law on Official Use of Language and Letters is changing its alignment with the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Another document that also required the harmonisation of this applicable law is the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. It is a Framework Convention signed and ratified by Serbia. I will refer to this 1st member of the amendment and the addition of this law, regardless of what the proposer, the Government argues that the reason for these amendments and the complementarity with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in this 1st article is seen – that this harmonisation, at the very least, is not complete, but is the harmonisation in part. I will compare the text, i.e. Article 1 of the applicable Law. Then I will read the proposed amendment and the addition also contained in Article 1. Then I shall specify what it says in Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to language and letter. The current 1991 law states that in the Republic of Serbia, the official use of the Serbian language is also referred to as the Serbian language, when it represents the Serbian language, ekava or Ichava, and then in the Serbian language. So that's Article 1(1) of the law that's still in force. In these changes and additions, we have received a proposal to change this position of Article 1 and it is said that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of the Serbian language. It is therefore a change of this 1st member, I will repeat: in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of Serbian language. But what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the chapter on language and letter. This chapter usually has one member, article 10, and consists of two bet. For the purposes of Article 10(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The constitution is said to be in official use in the Republic of Serbia with Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. Why do I say that the Proposer has partially aligned these amendments and additions to the Law with the Constitution? Because he took one part of the sentence from the Constitution, that is, the official language is Serbian, but not that the letter written is Cyrillic. The proposer leaves Article 2 of the current Law, so it does not change, and it does not, in the Republic of Serbia, have a Cyrillic letter in official use, and a Latin letter in the manner set out in this law. So this is a partial solution. The Serbian language is written in a Cyrillic letter for thousands of years. Since 1956, from the Lingvist Agreement, remember what time we lived in -- the time of Yugoslavia and the communist regime, when it is introduced that Serbian language is also written in Latin, and Latin is a letter of Croatian language. So the billmaker should have used it to make it clear here -- that the Serbian language is written in a Cyrillic letter. Of course, these solutions are also required by the administration – the Republic administration, the province administration, the local administration, public enterprises, television stations where the share of the state is majority, etc. However, it should have been used to prescribe this law – that the Cyrillic should also be used for all other purposes. There are surveys, for example, that in Belgrade, which is the capital of Serbia, only 25% of these public labels of enterprises, companies, etc. It's written in a Cyrillic letter, and there's only 18.5% in Novi Sad. Here were the words, for example, that in Moscow you can see coke, which is written only with Cyrillic or in Bulgaria, say Raiffeisen Bank, which is written exclusively with Cyrillic, so that does not diminish the importance of the presence of these companies in those countries. If it's a traffic signal, we've all traveled through Greece, you know it goes in Greek, Greek, and then it goes in English. You leave here the possibility that Cyrillic can be used, and you don't have to. It's something we at the DSS resent. We believe that this was a law that could have introduced this much more order and that even some criminal provisions had to be introduced. Of course, there are some solutions to these changes and supplements that are good and are precisely about harmonising with the Framework Convention on Minority Rights. I would like to say a few more words about this proposal for a decision to identify 310 new old and rare books, which are culturally good of exceptional importance. It seems to me that now there are over 2,000 such books and manuscripts in total. This list we received refers to manuscripts and printed books that occurred between the 15th and the 19th centuries. Of course, this requires special protection and provides for restoration. I suppose that's why these decisions are made, to introduce them into some special treatment, or procedure. However, what concerns is that you have listed the financial resources needed here, and you say that to implement this decision, no special financial resources are needed. It just seems impossible. So, if 310 books are to be treated and restored now, transferred to microfilms, probably places where they are kept adequately equipped or adapted, then it's simply impossible that no special financial resources are needed or that you might have predicted them in this budget without us noticing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38739	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38740	Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus my discussion, first of all, on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on official use of language and letter, believing that no one seems to understand the importance of this law and the importance of language and letter for our people and for our country, so we do not pay adequate attention to it, both in this discussion and in this agenda, where you have united the debate on several points of the agenda, not giving us literally room to deal with this topic in an adequate manner. It's not, of course, anything new, it's something that Cyrillic, and a letter, and a language follows throughout the 20th century, and those who have hoped that in the last ten years of that October coup, since the arrival of democracy will call for someone to deal with it more, you've obviously crossed over. Today we could even hear the father of democracy talking a little more seriously on this subject. We estimate that the letter of our people is the ten-year cultural fluid without which we must never remain and that it is one of the greatest Serbian national values to which it should certainly be returned. I would talk about the law in general, not just these cosmetic changes, which are of course political changes. What makes me say that? Because the Constitution is clear on that. After that, the Statute of Vojvodina, which we consider to be anti-constitutional in many provisions, was passed, and in order to implement it as it is, it takes one such law to write before Zrenjanin. When Thessaloniki is written in front of Thessalonica, I will agree with you that this is something that is normal, but it is not normal for any European people, so it should not be normal for our Serbian people or for our Serbian state. How can many people wonder, with a Cyrillic in Europe and the world, with senseless stupidity and the belief that we can only go to the world with Latin? Some of my distinguished colleagues spoke about what the French are doing to protect and preserve their language, but let's see what the Russians are doing, and let's see how the Raiffeisen Bank is written or read in Russia. Is that in Latin and does it say what the Germans say or write how the Russians can read it? Why does Panchevo have to write here on the traffic sign as it says, with Cyrillic and Latin? If it's because of strangers, we know that strangers don't write or read it like that. So a double letter is something that is absolutely not in the national interest of our Serbian state. It's something that, first of all, the linguists should fight, and those who are dealing with it and how they're trying to bring politicians in, so to speak, think about getting rid of it in some way and taking care of what's our basic mark. You know, when someone wants to hit a nation, undermine it, destroy it, it makes it the easiest, if not with a weapon, then by language and letter. It happens to us, and we close our eyes and get over it. I'll set an example, for example, Quebec. It's one, so to speak, a secessionist province in Canada that has a special language law. It happens to us, too. For example, we had here the demands of some MPs who say that it should even be brought down to the level of the local community, and in that local community where it is spoken, for example, in Hungarian or Slovak, any language, should be everything in that language. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I also point out that this is something that is absolutely inadmissible. The French even have their word for Walkman. They won't say Walkman, I don't know French, but I found how it's written, so I'm going to try to say it's about "baladuh" or something, but they don't have that alien, they keep their French language. Why would we have to accept all the foreign words to become something that's normal with us? There are people like Dragoljub Zbiljic, who published a really fantastic book about the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, which I strongly recommend to you if you want to do this job, seriously read it and support what he does through his association. We have one delusion about what's official, what's public in the use of language and letters. Here in law when we talk about it – official use of language. We have a very good explanation, I will paraphrasise it or even quote some parts, since it also calls for Radomer Lukic, who is an unquestionable authority on this issue, so I will break some of your delusions about what is public and what is official. So, with us, not many linguists, nor statesmen, nor citizens are clear with what is official and what is public, and it has also proved that we do not know here, and that the government obviously abuses this term in the bill. Some of them, under official language use, mean only what comes from state institutions, state authorities, from the government. Many feel that public use of language and letters is not official and is not subject to the Constitution and the law. It's incomprehensible for an advanced world. Can we imagine that in England, America, Germany, Hungary, Bulgaria, Greece or in any country we have one language and one letter in official use, and the other language and letter in public use? The issue was very correct and professionally explained 15 years ago by academician Radomir Lukic, who remained among the most educated and wisest Serbs of the 20th century. He explained why everything that is public and why it cannot and cannot be separated. After the famous academic who explained it perfectly, we have nothing further to explain. So, at the small door, you're pushing both the Cyrillic letter and the Serbian language into the basket, which is why you're losing part of your national identity. The law doesn't apply, because the inspection doesn't do its job. The law doesn't apply literally, and to tell you the truth, where you want to go, and where we are, you just don't know it, so in Europe, if you told someone that the Constitution or the law isn't a red letter, they'd put you in a nuthouse. With us, the Constitution and the law can be broken at every turn without anyone missing a hair on their head. Now with these changes that are purely political, you are giving an additional blow to the Serbian language. I see you're smiling a little bit. Maybe I'm not competent enough to talk about it. I tried a little hard to read the literature. Otherwise, I stand for it, and the SRS really understands the importance of language as part of a national being and we advocate the preservation of Serbian language, but there are people who are very serious about it and the Ministry of Culture needs to be with them in writing. And when it comes to political decisions, then it's your responsibility, just don't be surprised that one day your children may not be able to handle it at all, at least when some toponyms are at stake, in our beautiful country of Serbia, let alone something else. Secondly, if you notice, you've introduced asymmetry with this law. We will have a regulation that will apply, for example, to a part of our country, to Vojvodina, but it will also not apply to other parts of Serbia where national minorities live, and I will remind you that you have already proposed and that the SANU Act has been passed here, which is a law that does not apply to the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. Where are we going? Are we making it from one state of the two states or is it someone's intention to be even more states?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38741	Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38742	Madam Chairman, honourable and esteemed Mr. Minister Bradic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, I will speak of two laws. I will talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, because I think it is a very important and important law, and I will say something about the decision to declare 310 books to be extremely cultural for the Republic of Serbia. I'm really not going to discuss some of my predecessors and what we've heard here, but I just want to notice a few things. The bitter tears are shed over the fate of the Cyrillic in Serbia right now. I'm using Cyrillic and Cyrillic. I was born a Krushevian. It's a city where we all grew up in a national environment, we all used Cyrillic, but we all used the Latin that we learned in elementary school. My mother, who never left Serbia's territory, had an accident to live in several states. Her first name was FNRJ, then SFRY, then SRJ, etc. The laws changed and the state stopped, so, she-she didn't want to, she had to learn both Cyrillic and Latin. I don't think that's why, like any Serbian citizen, she's poorer. On the contrary, I think that the Republic of Serbia's equal use of both Cyrillic and Latin is our personality and our cultural wealth. Neither Greeks, to whom some are called, nor Bulgarians have two letters in use, have their own letters: Greek alphabet, Bulgaria has its own letter. Of course there are inscriptions as in China, exclusively in Chinese, there are in Greek, in Bulgaria in Bulgarian. Whoever has nothing to do, and there's time, go to Petrograd or St. Petersburg or once Stalingrad. The Russian city, the cultural capital of Russia, when you get to the center of that beautiful city, in the capital square and today, you see the trails which also in the Russian letter, but also in the Latin, say there are many miles to Berlin, Tokyo, Rome and some other European capitals. That's not making them any poorer, no more endangered. I'll be very proud when in this room, where I'm sitting with my friends, these friends of mine can turn in their native language. I underline, I am a Serb from Kruševec, I use a Cyrillic letter and in that city where I grew up, I have never been taught to share people with those who get baptized, cross or bow. I am very proud that Pavel Marchok, who will be able to speak to me in his native language, will be able to speak to me in his own language, Đuro Muchenski in his own language, Tamash Tot in his own language, Aniko Žiroš in his own language. I don't think Serbia will be poorer because we give them this legal right, which I would like Serbs throughout the former Yugoslav republics to live there. On the contrary, I think that will make us richer. But when we talk about the letter at all, that and such an attempt to protect the Cyrillic speak more about people who speak in such a way. I took a look at the list that we sign up for when we came to the assembly session. Some who have been most loudly defending Cyrillic here are signed in Latin. That says more about them. I don't think that's a bad thing, but if they're already defending the Cyrillic like that, they'll sign with the Cyrillic, and then there'll be some action behind their words. Some who collected signatures for the government's impeachment, so there are a million of them, didn't mind collecting them on forms written in Latin, and every morning we show them that 126 signatures we give here with both Cyrillic and Latin are worth more than a million signatures that are being collected, because it's impossible to get 126 signatures here every morning to crash with a million signatures of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, when we talk about a decision declaring some titles as a very important cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia and as books of exceptional importance, and we declare them to be old, rare books, I want to mention today a great man, a patriot, a guardian of thought folk treasure, a donor of the words "remembers", in which generations and generations have been brought up to win heroic victories in the Liberation Wars from 1912 to 1918. I want to talk about a man who was the first dean and founder of the Faculty of Education in Belgrade and who was the rector of the Prizren seminary, whose name is Steva Dimitrijevic. He was born on January 10th 1866 in Aleksinec. In the book Svetlana Mircov about Jovan Tomic, a librarian and scientist, one of the most famous directors of the National Library of Serbia, said of Stev Dimitrijevic – one half of the rare books that represent an exceptional contribution to our cultural heritage, he has preserved and donated the prot Steve Dimitrijevic since the collapse. In 1902, Prota Steva Dimitrijevic transferred 28 manuscripts from Turkey's then Ottoman Empire to Serbia and donated both to Patriarchia and the National Library. In 1903, 76 old manuscripts and 13 old books by Steve Dimitrijevic left us with a gift. In the municipality of Aleksinac, he donated land to which is located a school named after him today. The school celebrates 150 years of existence Thursday. On the land he gave to the citizens of Serbia and Aleksinac, the guardian of the thought folk treasure and collector of old books, the man they called the library on his feet, was created today, next to that school, a sports hall. Now I would like to thank Mrs Zorica Pelesh, who wrote the book "Proto Steva Dimitrijevic – an angel of God for southern Serbia" and priest Dragic Ilic, who wrote the book "Birds of Nais", which saved this man from oblivion. But I also want to thank you, Mr. Bradic, for being a minister of culture, for the appeal of the archeology of Alexinac, the chapel which is a masterpiece of construction, which was done by the same masters who built the Church of St. George on Oplenc, who built his own prot. Steve Dimitrijevic, who ran the works on the construction of the oblivion temple, you kept your care and expertise from being ruined. This chapel, not a chapel, but a chapel, which contains the most beautiful paintings, icons and frescoes, copies of the monastery from Kosovo and Metohija are preserved from destruction, thanks primarily to your understanding and your efforts. Thank you for that on behalf of the citizens of Alexinca, thank you for my personal name. Of course, some will say that we make laws to be a dead letter on paper, but we show that the laws are followed by certain activities. Those pieces are not undetected. Prota Steva Dimitrijevic provided a total of 2.268 books of old titles of exceptional importance to the National Library. Unfortunately, on 6 April 1941, during the bombing of Belgrade, one of the most terrible crimes against the Serbian people was committed, the bombing of the National Library, in which a large part of those books unfortunately burned. But I'm saying what we're doing isn't just passing laws, it's law enforcement, and it's not undetected. Allow me, Mr. Bradic, to congratulate you on the medal of the citizens of Kruševec, who have received from his Holiness the patriarch of Serbian Mr. Irinej, for showing concern for the cultural heritage and the town of Kruševac and the city of Aleksinc, because it is good that such efforts and such activities are observed and rewarded, because if we do not keep our cultural heritage and do not worry about it, then how will others take care of it. When we talk about the conventions we're going to sign today, without the cultural exchange of our cultural treasure, without presenting our cultural treasure to the world, we'll never be able to show how far we've achieved and how much shifts we've made in overcoming civilization's obstacles, how much reach we've made to fertilize our lives. Our cultural treasure from Serbia, thanks to these conventions, will enlarge the lives of other people. It is good that we do not go to the world by persistent and zealously offering our greatest faults as our greatest virtues. Let's show our greatest values, be proud of those values, but above all, to show the will and willingness to save them for the generations that come to us. With this law, we do it the best way. A law that allows all people who speak differently and write differently, but think the same way as we do, as we do, modern European Serbia, shoulder to shoulder with European peoples, this is the law we pave the way for, this is the law we set a guide on that path and today we would be proud of both Steva Dimitrijevic and all the donors of the people's thought treasure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38743	National MP Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38744	Dear citizens of Serbia, I must first address you, and I respect the fellow MPs present and I certainly appreciate the presence of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But, let me tell you, respected citizens of Serbia, you 126 are always worth more than 126 here, along with representatives, or the MPs of the SRS, and they wanted to tell you that the 126 people here are worth more than one million citizens of Serbia. The second question is who launched the action and the signing-up activity. To the most extent, they, Mr. Milivojevic, who didn't want the elections, because if they wanted to, they wouldn't have done what they did a year and a half ago. But that's as important as what we're going to talk about right now. This morning when the government representatives came, I thought I was in the city of Arangelovac. Of course it's a beautiful and beautiful town in Shumadia and we here, considering the agenda points we're discussing, we have a mix. What is common to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of an Old and Rare Book of Crucialty. Mr Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade, also attended the debate. It is personal to me, I apologize for bringing some privacy, I suppose, to a large number of Serbian citizens, that it is a minister who likes to write and some collection of songs, so I thought I was running to include some of the two books he published in some subsequent period. It is fortunate that these 310 books were not kept in this high building. If they were here in 2000, they might have been caught by fire and we wouldn't be able to talk about so many books today, and it's good to have so many. Mr Minister, regardless of what SRS MPs, representing the SRS programme and policy, go to elections with him and have a different opinion from a large number of MPs, and you must admit, because you are one of the few who are present all the time when you are here on behalf of the Government, that MPs have only talked about one or two sets or a set of laws that are interlinked and which can be considered as such. You have seen that those who have defined themselves to speak about the laws that you represent here speak exclusively of it, and when ten minutes have elapsed, even though they had the right to speak for 20 minutes, they've ended up talking, because making such a mix is really unnecessary and it doesn't make sense. You had to fight it, and you can say it after my discussion – so someone from parliament suggested it. Yes, the merger was proposed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, but we assume and we are convinced that there were agreements with the government's representatives to merge these draft laws and to be held in a united debate. I'm not burdened by it, because neither Mr. Milan Markovic as Minister of State and Local Self-Government can say that we missed something. But I'll go with a lead on the arguments. Members of the SRS are exclusively talking about it. When someone says, "This is not only about laws being passed, but about being applied." The Law on the conflict of interest, just remember in the last two or three months, i.e. from the beginning of 2010 how much controversy was in the public that some very high officials came out in an incorrect, incorrect and even contrary legal system of the Serbian state to say that it is possible to simultaneously perform more of the functions provided for by law as incompatible. An explanation from the Justice Ministry, which arrived at one point, says it can also be a folk MP and mayor because before the law came into force, it was both. I'm not going to use any harsh words, but it's really irresponsible and incorrect to those who have an understanding of the right. What's characteristic of the law I'm going to talk about more, about amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act. First, I now have a dilemma, the law was published in the "Official Journal of the SRJ" and instead of being approached by a completely new legislative proposal, because there is a need for this, has been approached by changes and additions. The minister when he explained in the afternoon part of the debate said – the law arrived in the assembly procedure on 16 January 2009 and it is not his fault that it was not adopted earlier. Exactly, on 16 January 2009, but there is a constitutional law implementing the 2006 Constitution and there is one general deadline for harmonising the law with the Constitution. So, in general, I found no provision that has special deadlines where it could be said that by 16 January 2009, what the sea alone can't, but it can't, by 31.12.2008. One member of the law, article 12, says it is a duty to bring all the laws in line right up to the deadline provided for by this law, which is December 31st, 2008. Despite its appeal to the Constitution, the harmonisation of this law with the 2006 Constitution calls for the 2007 Foreign Affairs Act, the 2007 Law on the Serbian Army, the 2005 Family Law, certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia relating to both the Public Prosecutors and Articles 156 to 165 and the 2008 Ministry Act, which is why the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government considered it necessary to approach the amendments to the law that I am talking about. I'll try, although the minister in charge isn't here, he said at one point -- I'm trying not to answer too much for a word, but it seems to me he's trying not to be too much in the O.R., but it doesn't matter that we're talking about what's on the agenda. Therefore, it was necessary to approach the adoption of a completely new general administrative procedure law. Here, article 31 says – the authorities are obliged to show each other legal assistance in the administrative process. So it shows how important this is and how important it is and it's not something that self-government is a general act, so it can go that way. The requested authority referred to in Article 1 shall act without delay and within 30 days at the latest. What does practice show us? Is 30-day deadline optimal? Can certain things be brought in within that time limit? How inconsistencies is this law? But if we have certain regulations, if we have certain intensities and provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, then this law should be similar, that certain things are resolved in the same way, and says – legal aid for the execution of certain actions in the procedure can be required from the court in accordance with specific regulations. An exceptional resolution authority in administrative matters can ask the court to deliver the files to him. Of course, if the court conducts the proceedings, it will assess within which time limit it may make available the case at court, in order not to delay the proceedings, in order to be economical and carried out within a specified time limit. Mr. Martinovic looked back, as an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, on what is subject to these changes and trust me, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that no problem, if this law were to be changed because of what you are proposing to change, and in the next three or four years there would be no problem. Anyone who needs to apply this law knows that it is no longer the SRJ Army, but that it is the Army of the Republic of Serbia. It is known that there is no more of that citizenship that was before, but that they are now citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No mistake would be there, and you are the basic reasons for changing that law, even though we are not arguing we should have done, but this can't be some important story. It seems to me that this is more about making an alliance with Croatia, in these proposals, than about you going and entering the EU. The Serbian Radical Party is not a party that will introduce Serbia into the EU, but we believe that certain legal proposals in EU member states, which are vital to the citizens of Serbia, are as soon as possible to pass such laws and deal with serious matters and activities in this House. So, Mr. Minister, there is one shadow left that the debate is being conducted in one way that can't, in fact, be the best way to shed light on the problems that we wanted to talk about today. Some have also spoken and mentioned Vuk's background, but there is a fellow MP from Loznica and know how and how the Serbian letter is used there, or Serbian, and yet a very constructive and good proposal Mr Krasic has made as well as how the state, or executive power, can affect those who are trying to neglect, to put into another plan the language that is our native language. I am proud that there are representatives of other peoples in this House. Once again, 126 there is worth more than this. They transferred jurisdiction to us. He who chooses, he has a passive right. Whoever chooses, he has an active right and there's this difference where those who haven't had the chance to sit here are worth more than us. Perhaps next time they will be here instead of those who do not have a proper relationship with Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38745	Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38746	Just one note, Madam Chairman, since they obviously didn't understand me very well in this room by some of my dear colleagues. One brief note. We 126 in this room don't sit by and choose ourselves. We are behind the voices of 2,800,000 Serbian citizens. Math is an exact science. It's always more like 2,800,000 than one million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38747	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word. (Radicals, from the scene: on what basis? Replica was not well understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38748	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this point I would like to speak a few sentences on two draft laws: a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and on the publication of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and several sentences on the Proposal for Laws and Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. I think it is very good that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts defines how and how international contracts will be published. Secondly, the bill provides for the European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning the Republic of Serbia to be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the publication of the European Court of Human Rights rulings relating to the Republic of Serbia by the old ministry responsible for human and minority rights. It has been defined that those acts relating to the military and in general the defence are published in the official military list and that the old ministry is responsible for the defence. I think it is very good to make it easier for all of us and Serbia's citizens to find rules and better regulation in general in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. With regard to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, the fact is that at this moment in the Republic of Serbia, under the current law, there is an official use of the Serbian-Croatian language, which is also referred to as the Serbian language term, Ekvat or Ichavat, as the Serbian language. The Serbian-Croatian language is currently in use. That is why, by harmonising that regulation with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, practically respecting Article 10. The constitution in the Republic of Serbia is officially used by the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. In accordance with Article 10(2), it is defined that the official use of other languages and letters is governed by law under the Constitution. I think that we and Mr Milivojevic share the view that as Serbs, we have nothing to fear if we clearly define the rights and our fellow citizens of other nationalities in the direction of achieving their rights, achieving the level of human and minority rights achieved, because it is precisely in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined in Article 20(2) to achieve the level of human and minority rights that cannot be reduced. I think it is good that what is defined in Article 11, to allow certain members of national minorities who count a percentage in the total number of inhabitants in the territory, have the right to use their own language in administrative and judicial proceedings, to conduct administrative and judicial proceedings, to communicate with authorities with public authorities, to issue public documents, to keep official records and to collect personal data, on ballots and voting materials and in the work of representative bodies. It is normal that we will also speak for sure when considering the amendments whether and how it is necessary to enable the use or expansion of the rights of national minorities, not only to limit to a certain percentage of the population of the Republic of Serbia. This is especially felt by us who come from mixed national environments, and I don't think anyone in my Panchev can fear and be threatened if he is a member of the majority nation if allowed and allowed to use certain terms, use language or in any way achieve the level of human and minority rights achieved. I think it is good that Article 18a provides that members of national minorities are entitled to free choice and use their personal name and their children's names, as well as to refer personal names to all public documents, official records and personal data collections according to the language and spelling of members of the national minority. The law of Article 1a does not exclude a parallel entry of the name by both Serbian spelling and letter. In any case, I think any further word is unnecessary, since my distinguished colleague, who comes from Kruševac, Srdjan Milivojevic, has made it very clear what they have taught us for generations. As we can see, he was well taught by those whose students were even five future SPC chiefs, because Mr Milivojevic here did not want to say because of his modesty, that this is precisely the prot Steve Dimitrijevic, who was a teacher of five future SPC chiefs, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's great-grandfather.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38749	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would exclusively like to talk about the law confirming Protocol 14 BIS with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. What bothers the citizens of Serbia and I assume all of us in this room are the implementation of all these protocols, which are bound by the Constitution, Article 99, to implement through the assembly procedure. If, in the light of this bill proposed by the law, it is ratified on 6 September 2005, and we take the number of judgments of the International Court of Human Rights which annulled the judgments of the courts in Serbia, then we will be quite concerned about whether this implementation of Protocol 14 BIS will also be in force to the extent that all the protocols we have adopted so far have been in place. What would get out of this whole story is the conclusion that we can't change protocol, but just carry it out. It is also worth commenting on that, under the pretext of accelerated processes and simplification of work and the Court of Human Rights itself, some of the facts on us are unclear conclusions. But, well, we still have to do it. It is said this way – the individual judge will be able to reject the obvious unfounded notions that so far required the decision of a three-judge board. One will do the job for three. The responsibility of the three-judge committee has been extended to cases of acceptance of the notions that allowed in the decision-making of the metric, so where there is already established jurisprudence, I apologize, it is poorly seen by the European Court of Human Rights. At present, such cases are resolved by the seventh-member judicial council. One will do a three-way job, and these three judges will do a job that has done seven, all under the pretext that the adoption of Protocol 14 BIS would be conditioned by a faster process of performances against Serbia, in terms of their rejection, and faster delivery of representations to the state for response, when they are estimated to have elements of breach of the Convention and additional protocols, which is why the state of Serbia could respond. If this is some explanation that we must install through the law, through the Republic Assembly, I must remind you of the following. The Strasbourg court has no means of coercion and cannot do anything unless Serbia fulfils its obligation, except that the state of Serbia would lose its trust and credibility. It's the only punishment that can happen for not implementing this Article 14 BIS. Essentially, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to look back on that practice behind us. We hope that this practice after this adoption will not be in the future. For example, discrimination or at all the need for human rights in the state of Serbia is being achieved from day to day. Every day, one is dedicated literally to the human rights court, writing appeals to judges in Serbia. The problem is also a legal remedy, I will give and an example, which was left at the disposal of the unselected judges, because the same basket was placed on judges who deserved to leave the judiciary and those judges who had done their part of the work with honor and had never, at any point, violated their reputation as a professional. What's still saddening about this whole situation is that the state of human rights assessment in Serbia is given by the US State Department. I'll call on their sources, since practice has shown that you respect them most so far. The State Department has assessed the implementation of human rights in the world in a way likely to be applied to them. If we know that they are number one in the world after human rights violations and their policies are implemented, but they have some obligation to judge all countries in Europe, including Serbia. The US State Department 2009 report estimates that Serbia's courts remain subject to corruption and political influence. What they positively assess about judges is that the judicial reform in Serbia that has been carried out, particularly the replacement of judges appointed back in Milosevic's time, is essential for eradicating corruption, the report said. If the State Department has seen the bright future of our judiciary by replacing judges who are just put on behalf of another regime, and they have no bad grades, or they have no other qualification for which to be replaced, then we must address the Court of Human Rights. A very detailed report on Serbia suggests, however, that there have been cases of violations of human rights, such as excessive use of police force, police corruption and justice, long-term litigation, pressure on journalists, pressure on critics of authorities, as well as cases of ethical, religious discrimination. The State Department suggests that courts in Serbia, despite constitutional guarantees for their independent functioning, are still subject to corruption and political influence. This is what the State Department says. What the European Court of Human Rights is drawing out is the right to a fair and fair trial. Under this famous farce is actually a guarantee for each individual that the case of criminal and other proceedings is tried by impartial and independent courts. A reasonable period of time shall guarantee the transparency of the trial, the presumption of innocence, and the minimum rights of the accused shall be deemed to be the right of defence and interpreters, the right to notify of the indictment in a language which the person understands, the right to examine witnesses, as well as sufficient time to prepare the defence. Of course, every national legislation is much more detailed and better defined in its procedural laws, but these are minimum requirements for each of the 47 members of the Council of Europe. I must remind myself that most human rights violations that have been established in about 30-odd judgments brought before the European Court of Human Rights are precisely the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. What is visible with us, and not in the countries of the region or in the environment, however you like, are human rights supporters who act in Serbia in their own way. What should also be noted is that there is no such action in the surrounding countries. It is clear that we will not find any Natasa Kandic in Croatia, Petra Lukovic in BiH, the Federation, Sonja Biserko in Albania. What is symptomatic is that we will find them in Serbia and that they exclusively represent the objectives that harm Serbia, and for that, in those countries that I have, perhaps, listed, are rewarded and how. Those public appearances justify crimes against Serbs. It's something no country in the region has allowed. That, Minister, is called discrimination against human rights. No one argues that all crimes should be lit up in Serbia and that individuals should be convicted by criminals, but that now the neighbours have no criminals and no individuals, and that only Serbia has them, say these NGOs that destroy Serbia completely legally, under the pretext of freedom of speech. If their rights were denied, the country of Serbia would not be one to respect perhaps this 14-BIS. What is also important in this report by the State Department, which is very large, is said to have lost progress in Kosovo on the returnees of internally displaced persons to their homes. There have been numerous cases of violence, discrimination against women, trafficking in human beings, primarily women and children who have been taken into sexual slavery. An antipathy against Serbs and the Serbian Orthodox Church has been registered in Kosovo, the State Department said, therefore, a source that you very much respect. From January to November of last year, 856 people were victims of violence, of which 681 women and 175 men. Also last year, 125 cases of victims were children, 74 girls and 51 boys. Let's also mention this human rights which had the prosecution of The Hague, which has completely failed at the trial of Haradinaj and Limaj, that there have been no charges in some cases involving serious suspicions, where crimes have been committed, let's say the crimes of the NATO pact committed by aggression against our country and that people, for example, have been convicted in a very strange way. Let me give you a special example of the famous Srebrenica. Thus, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, in Article 10, among other things, says signatories must also be provided to maternity mothers and other types of social protection. When we ask ourselves why, for example, the country of Serbia did not respect human rights and did not ratify this Convention on Human Rights remains the answer that you, ministers, will give us. What, in order not to take up time for my colleagues, is the implementation of this Article 14 bis into our judicial system very suspicious, very inconclusive, and we will see how it will work in the next period, it will remain for the assessment, but do not forget cases such as Zoran Lepojevic and Zoran Filipovic of Babusnica, who have received compensation from the Serbian state because the state of Serbia has caused them great damage because they have not had the possibility of a fair and inter-party debate. They got huge sentences for libel, and in the end it turned out not to be slander. Or the Ristic married couple from Šapac, who was compensated for a million dinars of the state because the state did not conduct a quick, comprehensive and impartial investigation into the murder of their son. If I didn't list all the hard topics now, there are a lot of them, and one of the examples is those who say that this implementation of 14 bis itself is going to be very, very risky. More specifically, its application cannot be considered serious in our judiciary, which shows an example from the previous period and that the control by the Court of Human Rights cannot be any other than the oral directive that has no weight.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38751	The People's Messenger Paul Marchok has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38752	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, comes from a region where six languages of national minorities are used, where the letters of national minorities and the official language are Serbian. I also come from a municipality where, besides the official language, I can say that I am proud of it, as Serbia is proud of the municipality, as the only municipality in the world that has the majority population of the Slovak national minority. I also come from the middle in which the first high school in the world was opened with a teaching Slovak language. Apropo, today I would like to refer briefly to a few provisions of the Law in the official use of language and letters. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 10. The RS constitution, which found that in the Republic of Serbia there are Serbian language and Cyrillic letter and that the official use of other languages and letters is regulated by law and by the basis of the Constitution. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(2). The RS constitution, which provides for the Republic of Serbia to regulate and ensure the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens and proceedings before courts and other state bodies, as referred to in point 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been found to regulate and provide other relations of interest to the RS in accordance with the Constitution. As regards these amendments, I would refer to two amendments concerning the use of the language of national minorities and should say that by amending the applicable Articles 7 and 11 of the Law, the legislative text is aligned with the confirmed Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, in particular with the provision of Article 11(3). The Framework Conventions, which reads: "In areas traditionally populated by a significant number of members of the national minority, foreign parties will seek to make their legal systems, including where agreements with other countries are necessary, taking into account their specific conditions, highlight traditional local elections, street names and other topographic indications intended for the public and the language of the minority, if there is sufficient demand for such indications". In that sense, in Article 2. The draft law provides for the erasure of the provision of Article 7(3) of the Law, under which geographical names and their own names contained in public inscriptions cannot be replaced by other names, or names, and shall be printed in the language of nationality, in accordance with the spelling of that language. The adoption of the proposed solution would mean that geographical names can be replaced by other names in the languages of national minorities, i.e. that the names of cities, municipalities and settlements, regardless of being established as such, can also be printed in an amended form, in the language of the national minority. In accordance with the above, the solution set out in Article 4 of the amended Article 11 of the Law is also in line. Also, by amending the applicable Article of the 11th Law and by adding a new Article 18a, the legal text is aligned with the applicable Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, in particular with the provisions of Articles 9 and 11 of that Law, as well as with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia of the Rights of National Minorities. Among other things, it has been found that members of national minorities have the right to use their own language and letters, to conduct procedures and in their own language, to use their own name and name in their own languages and to use their own language in their own languages and to make up a significant population of traditional local names, street names, settlements and topographic labels in their own language. This calls on all MPs to support this law on official use of language and letter, not only the MPs of the position, but also the opposition, and this is another step that raises the level of minority rights and we can all be proud that we who are members and national minorities live in the country of Serbia and that we exercise our rights, our right to use language at such a high level.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38753	National MP Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38754	Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, on this occasion I will speak the western version of the Serbian language, so to speak. In Croatian. I hope that I will be understood by Serbs of eastern Ekva voice variants, but also by members of minority groups of Croats, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Bosniaks, Muslims, who today say, as they themselves say, in other non-Serb languages. I also hope we don't need a translator in each other's communication, I guess we'll get along somehow. A bit of a black-humble joke isn't exactly a waste, but it's such a dreary reality. As regards the draft law on the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage, I will speak of the language as a key immaterial cultural heritage. Today, the Serb language, which is now spoken by the fragmented peoples, has been particularly threatened by the Serbs by religious conversion or state-run separatism, but they do not acknowledge that fact. Historically, the threat of Serbian language began to emerge during the 19th century, i.e. from the time of the creation of the Croatian nation and by the pawning of the Vatican, the Roman Catholic Church and the Austrian Hamburg ka-und-ka monarchy. Simply put, the imperial allies, the Vatican and the Imperial Austria, were required to create new nations because of the pragmatic goals of spreading the empire, but also Roman Catholic faith to the East. Austria, after the occupation of BiH in 1878, has been creating and expanding the new national religious identity of Muslim Bosniaks, particularly by the pawnage of Kalaj since 1883. Historians know that Bosniak is one of the historic names for the Serb population of the Bosnia region. It should not be forgotten that every old people is named with multiple names, so the Serbs are called Rashani in Rasa and old Serbia, Raca in Banat, Baranja and Backo and Iliri, Uskoci, Morlaci in Dalmatia, Vlasa and Slovenia, Slavonci etc. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the Vatican and Austria have started to talk about the special ethnic characteristics of Montenegrins compared to other Serbs. During the 20th century languages as a basic prehistoric property are becoming increasingly relativized. In addition to the devastating influence of the Vatican and the Austro-Hungarian monarchy to preserve Serbia's immaterial cultural heritage, Yugoslav liberals in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia often unwittingly contributed to the mutilation of the immaterial cultural heritage, and it began to talk about new essential properties in determining the national in a modern sense, as they often said. So, for so-called. National identities are beginning to point out other, in my opinion, ephemeral properties for the nation in modern liberal meaning. Yugoslav monarchist liberals also expanded the antiquity and territory of the spread of Croatia, all in order to popularise Yugoslavia as a merger of three old SHS nations. Uncritically, ancient mythological Roman Catholicism and modern liberal Croatianism were promoted in the 19th century, and this significantly mutilated the immaterial cultural heritage in various cultural and ethnological areas, music, ethnosms, folklore, social customs, solemn events and other particularly important ones – philology and linguistics. In the new history and literature of the monarchic Yugoslavia, the new climate of the liberal brotherhood of many Serbian intellectuals, primarily historians and literary historians, who began writing about Jugoslavia as a combination of three old tribes and thus accepted the medieval mythology of Croatia unreservedly. As liberal ideologists of Yugoslavia, they have exerted a very negative influence on the tradition of Serbia, i.e. the immaterial cultural heritage according to the terminology of this Convention, especially in the Predrin Predic countries. The founders of such liberal Yugoslavia were the liberals of Roman Catholics Prof. Dr. Ferdo Šisic, Prof. Dr. Viktor Novak and publicist Milan Marjanovic, who imposed their major Croatian national hypothesis, while staying in Belgrade, on the Belgrade but also on the wider Serbian scientific elite. One of such ideologists of Yugoslavia on the Serbian side, who also equated the antiquity of Croatia and Serbia, and who was a Serbian tradition and spirituality at the end of World War I selflessly assigned to Croatia, was unfortunately both historian and literary critic Prof. Dr. Vladimir Corovic. In the national division of writers to Serbian and Croatian, it was followed by a geographical habitat of a writer or a religious definition. Thus, Serbia's Roman Catholic faith, Ivo Vojinovic, placed it into Croatian writers, and even more devastating that the great poet Peter Preradovic, by the birth of a Orthodox Serb, than the father of a Krajina Serb, Jovan and the mother of Pelagija, placed it in Croatian writers, although he himself, regardless of the strong asymilator influence of Roman Catholicism and Germanism, felt Serbian. In 1818, Ćorovic concluded on clean Croatian culture in Croatian countries. Writing about 19th century literature, the historical fact for him is that "there were two special literature in us, Serbian and Croatian, and certainly not Serbian Croatian". Language unity, according to Ćorovic, is not the same as the unity of literature, so in Serbian literature, the literacy of Byzantine mentality developed, and the literature of Western traditions was created in the Croats. With such arbitrary findings, Ćorovic has brought Serbian Byzantine culture into the territory of Serbia, and all the high cultural domains of the transdrin Serbs of Orthodox and Roman Catholic faith referred to the Croatian culture of the model Roman Catholic and Protestant West. It also denied Serbia's self-state terrain that it had any cultural influence in the area of the Liberal-Democratic West, which was rather strong in Serbia. Although in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia he will be an ideologist of integral indivisible Yugoslavia, and in 1918 he was convinced that Serbs and Croats, however related, were to each other. However, Corovic will also be uplifting the organized so-called so-called "Corovic". Croatian People's Movement 1935 to 1937 to sober off its Yugoslavia as a combination of three old peoples and in 1937 to the Serbian cultural club Slobodan Jovanovic and Chetnic ideologist Dragisa Vasic. At first, Ćorovic was against the modern principle that everything written in one language belongs to one literature, or to Serbian literature. For him, the modern nation was not the primary language, anthropological or ethnographic principle. He was for the then modern principle of the liberal-democratic interpretation of the nation's creation according to the 19th-century liberals. The national principle of the existence of organic old peoples for liberal interpretations of modern national constitution simply did not apply. For these new definitions of the nation, as well as Vladimir Ćorovic, people of the same deeper feelings, or people who are absolutely aware of their communities, were able to join in the modern nation. We're wondering who might have been aware of their community? Of course, all those who had to be under a certain violent state roof, which was rapidly created during the 18th and 19th centuries, such as the state roof of France, Germany, and Italy, in which all those who were not ethnic French, Germans, or Italians had to be classified. Under Kavuro's password, we created Italy, we created Italians, and then they became a state-owned non-ethnic and supranational nation. Of course, in those countries that are united by the iron will of state leaders, there could not be national minorities, but only state-owned people, the same deeper feelings of people who are absolutely aware of their communities, but dear listeners, without a common ethnic root. According to the above-mentioned non-history Ćorović's summary, the old Serbian folk tradition, the language, anthropological, ethnographically-equaled with the modern nation of Croatia, just created during the 19th century on Ćorović's modern liberal national principles, 'people of the same feelings', I would say Roman Catholic, or people who are absolutely aware of their community, would say virtually large Croatia, in an effort to keep spreading. It is surprising that Ćorovic of the Herzegovina brotherhood, who has watched the Roman Catholic conversion of Orthodox Serbs for centuries – did not mention the Serbian people's core in any of his then historical literary work. An example of historians and literary critic Vladimir Ćorovic is a harsh witness to Serbian ideological blindness, often simple naiveness, which has often produced adverse consequences beyond common sense for the preservation of immaterial spiritual heritage. Unfortunately, he was not the only Orthodox Serb, or he was not the only one, i.e. There are numerous continuations in the fields of culture and science. Today, linguists are discussing differences between Serbian and Croatian. The most difficult result of a similar operation is seen especially in the fact that the Serbian language has become the heritage of newly created national identities. This is especially true today by the Serb refugees, when they must translate documents into Serbian, or Croatian, Bosniak, Montenegrin, and may soon be the Vojvodina language. In the end, Mr. Minister, I ask you how this convention will preserve Serbia's immaterial cultural heritage, which has already been kidnapped and brutally adopted by these national identities from the former Yugoslavia. With various spiritual, religious and military occupations reduced Serbia, it is now only able to care for the immaterial cultural heritage, but it is becoming less and less Serbia itself. So, the fatal political consequences for the Serbian people, the end of borders and the reduction of Serbia's national space completely endanger the preservation of the immaterial cultural heritage. Mr. Minister, this convention cannot prevent this, since it is prescribed for the territory of a country that is constantly reduced and in which only an existing immaterial cultural heritage can be preserved. Serbia's immaterial cultural heritage in the former Serbian countries has simply been cruelly adopted and kidnapped by the Serb people through faceless book counterfeits.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38755	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38756	Ladies and gentlemen, my contribution to the debate that we are having today in a joint principled and uniform search of several laws will be on amendments to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, in two parts. The first is why I will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions, and the second is about the context in which this debate is held, which is important – because it is not only heard as a debate on the members of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, but also heard as an attitude towards those who speak differently from us, who write differently from us and who have a simple requirement to enable all who write and speak differently because they are guarantees of the Constitution and guarantees of the Charters that speak of freedoms of man and citizen. Why am I speaking in favor of members of the law? For reasons that it is in line with the Constitution adopted in 2006 and because it is an area covered by a law that can only be interpreted to be applied well. Why is it good to clearly specify the official use of language and letters? Because it's about rights acquired. The tradition of multi-national, multi-ethnic, multi-cultural Serbia is such that it is perfectly natural that in some parts of Serbia six or seven different languages, in some other parts of two or three different languages, talk about a common life, talk about a common history, talk about a common tradition. They're talking about something else, they're talking about our capacities as a society and the Republic of Serbia as a state, the capacities for a truly democratic state arrangement. Democracy is not the rule of the majority. Democracy is the rule of the majority, which cares closely about the demands, interests and status of every minority, whether this minority is different from some of the ethnic or national backgrounds, whether it's different in half, whether it's different in social order. You always have a majority in every society that, if it wants to build a democratic society, then assumes responsibility for the regulation of society so that it listens carefully to what the minority, on any basis, turns out to be a request, its proposal, its status in the dialogue, including our Assembly – represents in some context the difference, i.e. cooperation between some majority and some minority. I listened very carefully to the debate throughout the day, and I couldn't help but feel the impression that it wasn't just my ears that noticed, and that, no matter how covertly, no matter how much microcry was used, there was one impatience to what we were all verbally standing for, and that is, that national minorities had the right to use their own language and their letter. I'll always be against that cloaked impatience. I was against it when it was much more dangerous than now. I'll always be against it, because anyone who threatens the right of a minority essentially undermines the values that most people stand for. Every word in which it is mentioned - the tradition of the majority people, the history of the majority people, the wealth of the culture of the majority people, and if after that goes "but" and then the hidden impatience towards someone who is different, it reduces the value we want to promote by belonging to the majority people, common by ethnic origin. It is also because the rights acquired in Vojvodina, for example, are not unusual to go to bilingual schools, it is not unusual for birth certificates to be issued in two or three languages and it is not unusual for you to have seven different languages on radio waves, seven different excuses or seven different shows, with news, with a music programme, with a drama programme, with everything that makes our common wealth, because it makes Serbia special in this part of the Balkans, ethnic charm, cultural diversity, multi-confessionality and our will to live together. It would make me happy if Serbia's Radio-Television, within the legal framework it is now in its programme, had news in Albanian and news in Bulgarian, because it was also acquired the right, and there are people who would like to hear in their own language, living in Serbia, basic information emissions. We knew that once. I don't see any reason why we can't show that we haven't forgotten, that we can think about those who are smaller, who speak another language. The second part of my contribution to my vote for amendments and additions to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters is the sensitivity and delicacy of the language as a topic. We have witnessed terrible debates, which were led only by linguists at first sight, speaking of language differences – that the language is the mother of the people and whose language is older, whose language is younger, who has robbed whom. All in all the terrible debates, in which there were more or less people, who conducted these discussions, they had no idea of the content of what they were dealing with, but they knew exactly what the target was. They were best described by one of the best aphorists, whom I had the opportunity to read in the former Yugoslavia: "Only when linguists are out of tongues, they are the same." We should never interfere with the will of those who think that language can cause conflict through the story, can cause low passions, with what we commit as a state. And we commit ourselves to building a democratic society where everyone feels minimally good, and those who are the ethnic majority and those who are most half or by gender, and those who by language are most and those who are minority, and those who are minority, those who are the most endangered minority, these are marginal social groups, the poorest layers, those 670,000 people in Serbia living below the poverty line. If whenever we want to participate in the debate we do not lose sight of – that it is an obligation to be the majority and to care for the welfare of the minority, then I am sure that Serbia has a chance to show that by common will, enjoying common past, common tradition, common history can build a society in which our children will be no matter who their origins are and will be eager to learn everything about – who is someone else and who is different. If I could ever choose to be born in another country, in another geographical space, with some other people around me, I would say, no, thank you, because the potential of the space that we all share is different and different so that it represents, hopefully, in the future it will only be one of the best places to live. I want everyone who speaks any language to write any letter in such a place, to have a comfortable feeling that the state has taken responsibility to make it possible for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38757	The People's MP Mr. Milorad Buha has a word. There's nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38758	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will talk about amending the Law on General Administrative Procedure. In fact, it's a procedural law that's lost its correction for 13 years. These corrections that we now have in the debate before us are purely cosmetic. A colleague, Martinovic, pointed out the basic reasons that required the innovation of the provisions of the law, however, the current authority decided on only cosmetic changes. What is important is to point out, and I will try to do so in several sentences to point out the abuses of the state authorities in the application of this law and the illegal actions of the state authorities in the application of this law, from the aspect of the exercise of rights acquired or the receipt of certain documents relating to obtaining a solution on citizenship, ID cards, refugee legislation, etc., of all those documents obtained, inter alia, under the provisions of this law. Before I go on to bring about certain abuses, we must point to one system act that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2005, which is the Strategy for State Administration Reform, as a systemically and very important act that remains a dead letter on paper. In 2005 the government defined itself as a state administration reform strategy, seeing problems in the work and system of state administration. The main objective of this strategy was to decentralise the authorities of the state administration, the departmentalisation, depolitisation, the modernisation of state administration, the human resources reconstruction of the state administration, the repair of the material position in the authorities of the state administration and the numerous other objectives and tasks. Unfortunately, none of this was made. We must realise that today we have more policies in the work of state authorities than it was in 2000, than it was in 2005, when this strategy was adopted. We must point out the terriblely poor data we can find on the websites of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia on increasing the state administration, the state administration, the number of workers, among other things, and in the National Assembly. In 2000, there were 78 workers in the National Assembly, then in the Republic Assembly, and now, according to the 2009 figures, over 350, and probably 400 workers. It's a few times more, it's not a percentage or two, but it's a few times more. In 2000, 340,000 workers worked in the state administration, and now there are about 530,000 workers. In the state administration in 2000, about 8,000 workers were employed, and now over 30,000 workers. The assembly passed before the end of last year a Law on the Reduction of State Administration, however, we do not have information, changes to the systemisation are being discussed, confirmations of and systematicisation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we do not see any real effects in terms of reducing state officials. What is important to stress is that financial indicators are even more drastic in terms of relations with the state administration and the spending of funds from the state register. In 2000, 98 billion dinars were spent on staff in the state administration. In 2005, 170 billion dinars were allocated to the state administration, i.e. for staff expenditure, in 2006 204 billion. Every year 15, 20 to 30 percent increase. In 2008, the U.S. 293 billion. Every fourth dinar went to employee expenses. These are data from the consolidated balance sheet of the state sector between 2000 and 2010. In 2009, expenditure on employees – 302 billion. A 291 billion reduction is scheduled for this year, but I doubt there will be a reduction. If we compare 2008 and 2010, then we see that 85% increase in staff expenditure. That's tragic. As business employment decreases, drastically decreases, we here have an increase in the number of employees and an increase in employee isolation. Let's go back now, given that time is running out, to the abuses of state organs. I will pay particular attention here to refugee issues, obtaining documents that refugees have achieved in the period from 90th to today, in terms of obtaining a solution to citizenship, ID cards, health books, workbooks, etc. Namely, the refugee when he came here was in status where he was obtained by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia by a refugee ID that is considered the right to confirm his residence. But the vast majority of refugees demanded and asked for the status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Then the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the Ministry of Interior, forced them to collect all documents, like all other citizens of Serbia, to get solutions on citizenship, a ID card. We must refer to the provisions of international law. In the area of refugee status, there is one convention on refugee status that requires all countries that have accepted refugees to treat refugees in a kindly manner, to use more favourable procedures in terms of obtaining documentation. Among other things, the provisions of the Convention on the Status of Refugees say: "The States of the Contracting Parties will issue identification documents for every refugee on their territory, who does not have a valid travel document". Furthermore, "States will recognise travel documents issued by foreign signatories to earlier international agreements and treat them as being issued to refugees on the basis of this article." This international act requires and is required for all countries to accept special status. So you can't force them into the countries where they were sent to go, search, receive or receive personal documents, what is necessary in the process of obtaining a certain act. I must refer here to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, Art. 158, 161 and 162, which imposed on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia not to ask the same of citizens who had refugee status. Unfortunately, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have forced refugees to go to Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38759	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the words of representatives, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used the right of Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure, want to do so. No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38760	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and Parliament, what I owe you in my address is, in fact, a thank you for all your inspiring presentations at this session and I have to say that on certain, slightly dissonant tones, today I can say that we are still talking about these important laws and conventions in a civilized tone, in a way that we can say that we are talking about culture. A few lines relative to the themes that have been started as part of your presentations. I would say that even these statements are not so far apart, given the diversity of laws and conventions that were the subject of today's conversation, precisely because they concerned almost the same question – the identity of relations with others and ours, which also belonged to the immaterial cultural heritage, yes and cultural monuments, the language we talked about, tradition, history, so all the important items that make up our cultural and public life, our history and our identity. About a year ago, I was in Turkey talking to a group of cultural followers, enthusiasts, and they presented me with a project of protection and presentation of Horeum Margi. It's a military fortress in the Roman era. They represented all these walls, walls, ruins that stand beneath the present Cupre. We talked very openly about their ideas, what they would like to do. We heard all this very nicely, and I asked only one question to the young woman who presented the project with energy, I referred the question – how much and are you ready to dedicate to this project for the next 30 years? I didn't get enough reliable answer. I'm talking about the protection of cultural heritage, the care of cultural heritage, and in fact we're talking about continuity, the bricks that each of us needs to put into that wall. There is a castle in northern Italy, in the Kingdom of Savoy, then it was a whole other state, made half of the 17th century. Later, Napoleon came here, and instead of the royal palace, that castle became a barracks, and then it was completely abandoned, and by the end of the 20th century there was a ruins. Then a group of enthusiasts gathered from Turin and the environment and they made their own organization. They began to advocate precisely the rehabilitation and revitalization of this huge complex, which deserves to be preserved. They managed to provide not only respect for the project, but to get more than 100m euros from the European Community, and that this Savojski Palace, a place that belongs to the history of Italy, but also to the Italian culture, the identity of the Italian Kingdom, or the state, has led to a level that tourists and students can go there today, to educate themselves on what is the history of culture. In the 19th century, I think in 1860, Prince Milos began to build an old building in Arangelovac, a place that is often mentioned today because it is the subject of a particular political concern. It's imagined as a summer castle, summer residence. The idea was to ambush the Assembly. The facility was completed and in time abandoned, and then 40 years ago that object was completely restored, it was restored to a dignified glow and became a hotel "Old Building", a famous object. After 40 years, that building, I'd say, is in unbearable condition. In 40 years, someone who cared about it has managed to devastate that object to the point that we are now talking about it as a ruin. It seems scary, but it's even scarier to expect everyone to take care of it just one address, whether it'll be the Ministry of Culture, the Government, the state, and not all those involved in caring about what cultural heritage is and what it serves. The use of cultural heritage is not about her being a clue of the past. It's not just a monument of a certain time, it's much more than that, it's an identity mark, but it serves the time in which we live, as it serves future times. As you know, one of the definitions of cultural heritage is that it is borrowed from future generations. When we protect cultural heritage, we protect it not because we are bound to the past, because de facto we are, but to those who are coming. So, in what state do we give this cultural heritage to them, to the heirs, to care for it as some previously cared for it or did not take care of it. There are great obligations in this area, and exactly the conventions that we represent here today and that I see that most of the MPs accept and support very materially, they are also obligations for this generation, but also for generations to come. In that sense, the laws that will be passed in the next period will mean that we will strengthen our care for cultural heritage, but not only in protecting it, but in representing it and using it in a way that will not endanger it, in a way that will rehabilitate it in the eyes of all those who, unfortunately, think of cultural heritage today only in those situations when it is threatened, not when it entrenched what is the everyday life of people and citizens. When we talk about cultural identities, when we talk about the relationship between someone else's and ours, what's a lot of words here, I think the question is completely unnecessary. In that sense, I would just like to remind MPs who have spoken some not quite right words and structures about what Belgrade's identity is. If you go historically, so you start from Neolithic Belgrade, you come to the Celtic Belgrade, and then you have a Roman-Antic Belgrade, after that the Avarian-Hunski, is behind it is Slovenian, Serbian Belgrade. After that, the Hungarians come again, after the Hungarian Ottoman Empire, then the Austrians, the Serbs. Today we have, to say, ours and European Belgrade. All the layers that one such great and powerful city has in it are the layers of one unique identity. He can't be cleaned, because he doesn't need to be cleaned. He is rich precisely because of all these shades and all these fruits that create his identity and give it to citizens for use, not only to those who live daily in Belgrade, but also to those who come and spend some of their beautiful and significant moments of life in it. Because we have opportunities for our friends, who were in Belgrade, to often see and they tell us – our best moments were just when we were in Belgrade. It is probably Belgrade itself, its citizens, its beauty, and everything we have in Serbia. When we speak and say Belgrade, each of the cities has another identity. Zrenjanin, Velika Bečkorek until 1935, then Petrovgrad, then Zrenjanin from 1946, not to say what it was and what it was called in some ancient times. All of this is a unique corps of names that change and make up that architecture of one city, one end, one state and one nation that lives there. When we talk about language and when we talk about the letter, the diversity we cultivate and the dialogue that we establish between different cultures, it is precisely respecting the wealth that we all carry together. Therefore, speaking of the many problems we have encountered in the areas we are dealing with, and some things have been said today, the question is: what about our institutions that are in reconstruction, what about protection of cultural heritage, what about monuments in Kosovo and Metohija, etc.? I am sure that this year we will open the National Library of Serbia, the Yugoslav Cinematheque and will launch a serious reconstruction of the National Museum. As for the world heritage we have on the World Heritage List, I'd just like to introduce this book to you. This is "The World Heritage of Serbia – monuments, cultural heritage of the world on the UNESCO list". There are four major enrolments, four groups involving Sopocans, Ras, Studenica, monuments to KIM and the last entry – Gamzigrad. The Day of Monuments on the UNESCO list will be spent in some of these monuments. I invite you to come with us to the Pecko Patriarchy, High Decana, Leposavic on Sunday.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-13-0.u38761	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dear People's MPs, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts under points 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 61 and 62 of the agenda. We'll work on it tomorrow. I thank Mr. Secretary and his associates. You, too.
