ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, which means that there are several thirds of the MPs and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Let me just inform you first that Mr Srdjan Spasojevic represents the parliamentary group of New Serbia, MP Vjerica Radet, MP of the SRS, and MP Bojana Stanojevic of the ZES parliamentary group. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Citizens of the Kings, these days there is an unprecedented dictatorship in the Kingdom, it is a complete media darkness and I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia of the things that are happening ten and more days ago in the Kingdom. In fact, the phantom conclusion of the government has been violated by the electoral will of the citizens of the Kings. First of all, I would ask the Government and Minister Markovic a question and ask him to deliver a conclusion to the urgently interested party in this practically controversial relationship...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42757	Please, let's hear the MP. A little quiet, please. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42758	I hope you won't consider this time. So, to end the government's election will of the people of the kings, that the parliamentary majority of New Serbia, the DSS, the SRS and the Royal Movement of 40 committees will be reduced to 24 committee members with controversial conclusions and bad interpretations. This is unrecorded. This is not democratic, and I would really like, first of all, to have the government's conclusion delivered urgently, if there is, and not to have the government's conclusion to the representatives of this coalition in an informal conversation at the Ministry of Interior in the Kingdom, that it would take no notice without being able to take over. Namely, what's this about? A few days ago, Minister Markovic in Medvedja said who is mayor, who are representatives of the Kingdom government, so who is legitimate, of course, are representatives of the ZES in it. I would like to ask Minister Markovic a question this time – what is the legal basis on which such a conclusion is made by the Government, given that there are strong decisions of the 2009 District Court in the Kingdom, where there could be no decision of the Constitutional Court, or what opinion regarding Article 47? So, for that part and the disputed eight council members, they absolutely couldn't get mandates. They've been given mandates. The next thing you know, the election commission in the Kingdom has legitimately done its job, assigned mandates to this coalition, normal procedures were implemented, the coalition around the ZES did not use the complaint they had the right to, they addressed the Administrative Court, and their appeal was eventually rejected, and in the second judgment concerning the material work, it is true that the decision was annulled, but was returned to rejuvenation and re-decision. My question is – did Minister Markovic, in his opinion that he came and the next, that the government had reached such a conclusion, defaced something that was unrecorded in any judicial system, that the government could affect judicial decisions? I repeat, this annulled verdict is the verdict of a limited jurisdiction, so it is not judicial. Therefore, if this is the basis, we ask Minister Markovic to answer us urgently – is there perhaps another verdict that we do not have? If such a verdict exists, this coalition will respect the country's court and laws. If this was a legal basis, as was the judgment of the District Court and the opinion given by the Constitutional Court, this is a legal scandal, this is something unheard of and hence the events in the King are in the media darkness, which is completely in the media darkness citizens protest with the right, because justice is on our side, that is, on the side of this coalition. It is unacceptable in a democratic society that a coalition, which at all costs wants to come and preserve power, exercises that power currently with members of the MUP, who day and night guard SO Kraljevo. My question is that Mr. Markovic urgently said that, even during the day, what he called himself when the government made such a shameful conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42759	Time. In accordance with Article 235(2) of the LDP parliamentary group, MP Ivan Andric will be represented today, July 13th 2010. Would you like a word, Mr. Andric? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42760	Your Honor, I'm asking you a question and I'm asking you a question about the situation that's going on in Sandzak. So, the head of our parliamentary group on behalf of the parliamentary group has tabled an initiative for you to urgently convene a session of the National Assembly College together with a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which you are also chairing, and in connection with discrimination against representatives of the Bosniak minority by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Minister Ciplic. Let me explain in a few minutes exactly what happened in New Pazar and at all in Sandzak, to meet all fellow Members, since we did not have the opportunity to speak at the National Assembly College. Therefore, it is the biggest discrimination against electoral law and in general discrimination against the national Bosniak minority since 24 September 2000 until today. The elections for the National Council of Bosniak Communities were held there, as you know, and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights was obliged to schedule constitutional sessions of all national councils of national minorities. It did so for all national minorities in the July 3rd and 4th dates, except for the Bosniak national minority, where a constitutional session was scheduled for July 7th. It was not clear to anyone why the Ministry did this, but when it came and that 7 July became clear. On the night between July 6th and 7th, in an insidious way, the ministry amended the Regulation on the constitution of national councils and thus directly prevented the establishment of the National Council of the Bosniak National Community. It demanded that, unlike all other councils of national minorities, two-thirds of those participating in the elections be required to establish this national council. These two-thirds cannot be provided and if that rule were valid for the rest of them, no national council would be established so far. Asked why the regulation was changed, why people weren't informed about it until the beginning of the session when the Ministry's representative pulled it out of the bag, that new rule, came up with various explanations. One is particularly scandalous and there was a direct reason for us to request a session of the College. So, Assistant Minister, some Antic, said there is a specificity of the Bosniak national community. I use this opportunity to ask him, do the Bosniaks in Serbia have two heads or three hands and what is their specificity in relation to other national communities or the majority people? I think it is more necessary to seek the specificity of this gentleman, who performs this function beyond the time and space he is in and as such certainly does not deserve to be in that place. We warn you that this is a very serious discrimination, as is said yesterday's events in Novi Pazar, which are first in the media, has been tried to hide, however, it is not possible. So, the ministry is further discriminating both human rights and itself as an institution. I've got it here, and I'll give it to you when I'm done talking. It was an idea to give it to you at the College. I have a falsified resignation of a member of the national council of the Bosniak national minority. It's a falsified resignation, because we own his statement, in which he says he's willing to participate in the work of the national council. So we demand now, in addition to the ministry explaining the best it could do is resign, since it is not a ministry against human and minority rights, but for human and minority rights. We're also requesting an emergency police investigation to determine who falsified his resignation. That was also the attitude of the ruling majority here in the Assembly, but the consequences of falsifying the mandate of members of the national councils of the national minorities are far more disastrous. All deadlines have passed, the Ministry doesn't give any rational explanations, in Sandzak, the situation is at the edge of conflict and civil war, which he could see every day on television. Two of the Bosniak community's representatives, located in all governments and longer in power than Slobodan Milosevic, are today abusing their position. We assume that they are blackmailing the Serbian government and preventing their defeat from being legitimate in the elections for the national council of the Bosniak national community. And on that side, it's clear what they want. What we do not understand is how a democratic government can allow such behaviour and work directly against the interests of a national minority. (President: Time. Time, time. Time's just coming. I'm delivering this information to you through the Service, please direct them to the MUP immediately and once again repeat our request, to hold a session of the College and to allow Svetozar Chiplic to attend that session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42761	The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is already familiar with all the contents you've been talking about here. Minister Ciplic will also receive this information today, as well as the MUP, and we will discuss this subject at the College, when I schedule it, most likely during this week. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42762	This question is for you. Last week, I sent you a letter, which concerns the way you are scheduled, maintained and postponed by the 67th session of the Administrative Board, given your authority. Then, based on that letter of mine, through your chief of staff, I was informed of what you did. In other words, you haven't granted me an answer. You know, ordering the chief of staff to tell you what you've done or you intend to do is absolutely demeaning an MP's group, so I'm asking you not to do it in the future. When it comes to the essence of the matter, I must remind you, it is a session where, among other things, there are 22 or 23 points of the agenda, and one of them was a debate on the reasons for the end of the term of office of one MP. As regards the MP who has put his mandate at the disposal of the political party within the meaning of Article 102. The Constitution, which the conditions have been met in a formal sense, since it is about the irrevocable resignations, with the obvious clear authority of the persons who have taken the act, instead of simply moving through the Administrative Board, to establish the fact that the Assembly has come to an end of the term of office, an incredible debate opens on what legal or constitutional aspects of this issue, calls for decisions of the Constitutional Court, which do not apply to matter at all and similar matters. Then, as time passes, the work of the Administrative Board and all the points of the agenda and the same session of the Administrative Committee are practically dissuaded, in order to remove this issue. In fact, most of the members of the Administrative Board, eight out of 15, and for the sake of the public, we have to say, because it is about certain political parties G17 plus, DSS, SRS, LDP, NS, that the provision of Article 102. The Constitution, whatever one of us thinks of that Constitution, some don't think well, I mean well, it has to respect. Then, after all this, when another political party in parliament, the DS, realizes that on this particular issue it is in the minority, then they are obstructing the work of their own committee, which they are chairing, so that this issue is not resolved in an adequate manner, in accordance with the Constitution. It's something that's amazing. I have to introduce you to this fact in public in front of everyone and ask you to make sure that these peripetias don't happen any further. As that obstruction was reported, I think I have so much time left to explain. By the fact that the President of the Administrative Committee or someone who ordered him to follow closely which of these eight, representing on a specific issue the uncontested majority of the Administrative Committee, will be absent, so that when they calculate that for reasons which primarily concern congregation affairs, and not some private reasons, someone will be absent, and this number of these eight out of 15 who express an unequivocal position, then the Committee is deliberately scheduled in that day to play with the relationship of power, which is extremely illegal. If everyone knows what the power ratio is in advance in the Administrative Committee, playing with this relationship power is extremely illegal and very ugly for the National Assembly. Then, of course, when a sufficient number is collected, with an undeniable force relationship on a particular issue, I repeat, then the President of the Administrative Board postpones the session of the Administrative Board because, my God, another member of the Administrative Board must go to the High Council of the judiciary, and then re-announces the appointment of meetings of the Administrative Board, although the chairman of the Administrative Board knows that he is another member of the Administrative Board, who again makes this majority on a specific issue, on the official path on behalf of the National Assembly at the OSCE meeting, etc. So it has to get in the way. When a person realizes that he does not have a majority on a particular issue, it is democratic and legitimate to respect this situation, rather than obstruct it and create a closure to get out of a number of pure games, an ambush made for MPs, a second number that would not read the political mood of the Administrative Committee. So I ask you best to answer the question that I asked you then, what you have done, what you intend to do. Not that you're doing it through the chief of staff. After all, I ask you to do something for real.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42763	Of course, I understand the reasons why you doubt the fact that a session of the Administrative Committee has not been held and, of course, the Management Board does not first face the issue of MPs' mandates, that there is already experience in this matter. What I have done is I have contacted the President of the Administrative Committee who announced the session's appointment and that will certainly be on the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42764	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS wants to ask Minister Milan Markovic on whose orders in the King's gravest violation of the election will of citizens, under whose orders has the Constitution and the law violated and whose order directly intervened and challenged the independence of the judicial branch of power? What we also want to ask today as a question and as a topic is a hack that has recently been headed against Vojislav Seselj, his wife, Jadranka Seselj and SRS. We direct our questions today to Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac, who has received more criminal charges and by which no one has responded yet. Namely, Dragan Todorovic, Elena Christmas-Talijan, Nemanja Sarovic and I have filed several criminal charges. The first against the author of the text in the June 29th "Blic" list, the text titled "Seselj ordered the killing of Nikolic". After that, since there was no reaction from this prosecutor's office, we also filed criminal charges against Aleksandr Vukic and joint criminal charges against Simovic's lawyers, Cabril and Rasic. We asked the state prosecutor, Zagorka Dolovac, to inform the urgent public about it because it is our established suspicion that Cabrilo, Rasic and Vukic agreed to show up with an alleged statement that Seselj ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. We also filed criminal charges and asked the Prosecutor's Office to establish on whom Vojislav Seselj had previously, according to Tomislav Nikolic, sent some messages to kill himself. We insist on the D.A. to tell us who Seselj was trying to kill and through whom Vojislav Seselj of The Hague, from where he sent such a message 24 hours under audio and video surveillance? We also filed criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic, where we proposed to the state prosecutor to listen to Aleksandar Vukic finally, according to Nikolic, open his soul and answer the question, as Nikolic said he had allegedly received a warrant from Vojislav Seselj to kill himself in Serbia. We insist that the Public Prosecutor's Office responds most urgently to all these questions, that Serbia's public finally calms down because the public of Serbia is upset by these statements that appear in the media. Of course, we in the SRS don't have the opportunity to respond to this hack against our president, and we do it primarily institutionally. Of course, a lot of private criminal charges and private charges have been filed for slander and under this Law on Public Information for damages, etc. So, we've run a lot on this subject these days, but none of the state's authorities want to let the public know what's really true. We know, of course, that the biggest and notorious lie is that Vojislav Seselj ordered any murder at any time, but we are asking that the public of Serbia finds out from the competent state authorities, and above all from Zagorka Dolovac, who is also obliged to tell us who visited Simovic in Zabela, at what time and what possible paper was brought from Zabela? Also, we invite Zagorko Dolovac to pursue Tomislav Nikolic, who said the other day that he had received similar orders, that only Seselj had reported to him – give it to Simovic. It says that Nikolic was obviously on the phone with Simovic all the time, and Seselj could have been on his own to inform Simovic. So, Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac, most urgently respond to all criminal charges by us from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42765	MP Bojana Stanojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42766	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I refer my question to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. It is a problem that has arisen in the process of issuing subsidized housing loans. Namely, the National Credit Insurance Corporation does not give its consent when it comes to the purchase of an apartment from a building that is built and used by the legalisation process. There is the view that this situation has arisen from the fact that in the legalisation process a project documentation which is quite simplified, from which, for example, no static stability of the facility can be established, so even the National Corporation cannot guarantee such an object. However, this is contrary to the basic conditions that the government has prescribed through its regulation for the granting of housing loans, which say it is necessary, 'that the facility be newly built, that it be a fair building permit, issued on behalf of the investor'. In all these cases, these conditions are met, but these people can't get their loans back. So I expect the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning to deliver an interpretation regarding this problem and, in any case, to give way for its immediate resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42767	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milan Dimitrijevic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 122 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you that according to Article 86(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the quorum for the work of the National Assembly on the day of the vote, i.e. the adoption of the minutes from the previous session and the establishment of the agenda, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. Please determine the quorum. I have been informed that the session of the Legislative Committee is under way. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 128 MPs present in the hall at the moment, or 126, respectively. You were presented with the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 30 and 31 March, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28 and 29 May and 5 May 2010, the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 5, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 26 May 2010 and the minutes of the Second Extra session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 7, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23 and 29 June 2010. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered, in writing, any objections to the minutes from those sessions. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 30 and 31 March, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28 and 29 April and 5 May 2010. Of 129, it voted 125. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 30 and 31 March, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28 and 29 April and 5 May 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 5, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 26 May 2010. Of 128, the vote was 126. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held 5, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 26 May 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the 2010 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session, held on 7, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23 and 29 June 2010. Of 127, it voted 125. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 7, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23 and 29 June 2010. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was convened at the request of 122 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 169. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have been sent to you for the maintenance of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the fourth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, the following agenda was set: 1. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which were submitted by 122 MPs; 2. Proposal for a Law on Trade, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State loan to the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement to implement the Financial Protocol concluded on 15 December 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Natixis acting on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of France, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Modification of Schools Programme) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of governor of the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 13. A proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, who was submitted by the President of the Republic. Proposals for placing on the agenda for the emergency procedure during the session have arrived, pursuant to Article 165(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, on the basis of Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session should be put on the agenda of this session – Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professors, who established a joint session of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia on 5 July 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State Credit to the Republic of Serbia; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement for the implementation of the Financial Protocol concluded on 15 December 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Natixis acting on behalf of the Republic of France; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (Program of Modernisation of Schools) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of the Republic of Serbia on Taxation of the Republic of Serbia - on Taxation of the Republic to the Republic of Serbia's Government to the Republic to the Republic of 2nd and Government of Serbia's Taxation of Serbia's Taxation to the Law on the Law on the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Law on the Republic of 2. Joint Single Search on: - Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of governor of the National Bank of Serbia and - Proposal for a selection of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (No) I am voting on the proposal of MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Given that the National Assembly has accepted certain proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, I ask the National Assembly to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which were submitted by 122 MPs; 2. Proposal for a Law on Trade, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State loan to the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement to implement the Financial Protocol concluded on 15 December 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Natixis acting on behalf of and at the expense of the Government of the Republic of France, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Modification of Schools Programme) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of governor of the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 13. A proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, who was submitted by the President of the Republic. 14. Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professors, which was established by the joint session of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE BUSINESS OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY (principles) You received a proposal from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was submitted by 122 MPs on 9 July 2010. I remind you, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; MP group G 17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 24 minutes; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Salad group minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Đuro Peric – MP group PUPS, MP Milisav Petronijevic – MEP Group SPS – JS, MP Ivan Andric - MP group LDP, MP Vjerica Radeta – SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42769	I'm sorry, that's why I've asked before, there's been a misunderstanding. I'm not advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm looking in accordance with Article 94, because it's a unique search to double the time. I ask the Parliament to plead. That's why I insisted that I call before you open the session. So I'm asking formally for time to be extended to 10 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42770	I am putting to the vote the motion of MP Ivan Andric to double the time of the debate. Who's in? Of the 127 MPs, 28 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42771	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly, in accordance with its powers under the Constitution and under the Law on the National Assembly, adopts a Rules of Procedure on its work. Since the Constitution now in force and the Law on the National Assembly has been adopted, the National Assembly has an obligation to comply with this act with the Constitution and with the Law on the National Assembly. Through the Administrative Committee, the National Assembly formed a Working Group that worked for more than a year on the text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Working Group completed its work and informed the Administrative Committee and the National Assembly of the results of its work. Now the proposal as a result of the work of the Working Group has proposed 122 MPs to enter the procedure and to discuss it. What is fundamentally proposed as a different solution in the Rules of Procedure proposal are primarily those solutions that harmonize the content of certain norms of the Rules of Procedure with the Constitution and the law, and in terms of full achievement of the functions of the Assembly, which are representative, legislative, control and electoral. Also, this Rules of Procedure proposes procedures that allow MPs to exercise their rights and constitutionally and legally guaranteed position. In terms of the political division of authorities between legislative, executive and judicial, the Rules of Procedure guarantee such procedures where the capacity of the Assembly will be built up not to the detriment of other authorities, but the control role of parliament will increase more and more. What has been proposed as a change in this Rules of Procedure is also the basis for rationalisation and more efficient work in parliament. Instead of the previous number of committees as working bodies of parliament, a smaller number of working bodies are foreseen to have 17 members, except for a committee to deal with the control of the work of security services, which will have nine members. This working body, which will deal with the control of the work of security services, has fewer members than other working bodies for efficiency reasons, and also because of the specificity of the materials that it comes into contact with, above all, I mean classified information, where the board members commit to keeping secret information from the public and not to report it to unauthorized persons who do not have the right to handle them. The idea of the Working Group was to be a smaller number of working bodies, so that finally one MP would be a member of only one working body and that he also had a deputy in his work to replace him in the event of justified prevention to participate in the work of the working body. This Rules of Procedure aims to strengthen the responsibilities of public authorities to perform this public function. We want to introduce a new parliamentary practice, which is more frequent talks and negotiations between the ruling majority and the opposition. We want the opposition to become in the right sense the words of an institution that is also responsible for determining and keeping policies in the national and social interest. This Rules of Procedure defines the course of the session. Especially so far, it has not been regulated how work is done. The Rules of Procedure, which are now in force, did not define the course of the session in the work of the working bodies, or the Committee of the Assembly. Very often we used analogy in the absence of regulations, so we filled the legal gaps with analogy from the norms that define the work of the Assembly in the tide. What's also a newspaper is also planning the work of the National Assembly. Parliament's president will have an obligation to establish once a year the work plan of parliament, taking into account the government's work plan and, with the college's opinion given, to adopt a principle plan of work that we should adhere to. Why is this work plan important? Because in this way, with the planning of time, we could ensure the efficient work of Parliament and its working bodies, and also provide representative roles and bodies or authorised actproposers, so that we can provide, by planning, the most competent representatives and representatives of the promoters who propose acts on which the Assembly declares themselves. The work plan can also provide for the distribution of working hours between work in the tide and working bodies, which, in our understanding, has so far been unjustly neglected. We wanted to order the Assembly to work three days a week and two days a week to be reserved according to the rule of working bodies, or to communicate MPs with the electoral base. In this way, all these functions prescribed by the Constitution and the Law on Labour of the National Assembly would be achieved and the Rules of Procedure should ensure that these functions are fully achieved as fully as possible. Communication with citizens and the public in the work is also provided by the rules of the rules of procedure. The control role of the National Assembly is ensured by the fact that the Assembly will be able to call the Government to account, we will be able to ask both the Government and the Ministers. There is a minister's obligation to report once a month to the competent parent committees on their work. The assembly also introduces new procedures. The Law itself provides for 15 different procedures. They are now worked out by this Rules of Procedure. It is particularly news that the Assembly is considering reports of independent regulatory bodies and has certain powers in terms of control over the work of independent bodies. This will not lead independent bodies to an unequal position in front of the Assembly itself, where we will achieve our control role in a way that will not endanger the independence and independence of regulatory bodies. So far, this area has not been regulated, so many reports of regulatory bodies have never come to the Assembly's agenda to be declared by MPs. For the first time, the concept of amendments has been defined as a legal act which will facilitate the handling of the relevant committees, in particular the Legislative Committee and the parent committees, with amendments. In this way, it will be easier to remove ambiguities when we have several amendments that are in the same content or which are the same, how they will be dealt with and how to determine who is the applicant for the amendment, if there is a greater number of proposals for the same text. We've also established independent control mechanisms. First of all, I mean control of the situation in prisons and prison conditions, but also other mechanisms that ensure the protection of those categories of population that should be under special care. That is how a commission is formed that deals with the rights of the child, which, according to its contents, is the working body of the Assembly all the time, but by composition it is extraordinary because it is chaired by the President of the Assembly. The composition is different from other working bodies and represents an independent mechanism for protecting the interests of the youngest population. As I said, the public in the work is heavily secure and guaranteed, so that the full communication of parliament with citizens and with media representatives will be complete. The Parliament's conduct in the process of granting consent to the Statute of Vojvodina has been defined, which has not been the case so far, so when we gave consent to the Statute of the Vojvodina during the last declaration of the National Assembly, we had problems formulating the decision on which this agreement should be given. It was not clear who should formulate a decision proposing to give consent to the Statute of Vojvodina. For me, a particularly important part of the Rules of Procedure is the procedure of amending the Constitution, because we believe that the Constitution itself has not defined until the end of the procedure of change, by underlining that the working group did not want to take on itself the authority or responsibility for the more complete resolution of this matter, so that we did not go into material and legal norms, but we were merely looking at the procedure and procedure in which the Assembly and MPs would find themselves and the authorised promoters when initiating the change of the Constitution. We believe that this procedure is defined in a correct way, which will remove all the doubts and indeterminates that we have had in our work so far. I would also like to underline that the more detailed regulation of the constitution of the National Assembly is in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We have removed some of the ambiguities and legal gaps that we have encountered in the constitution of each call for Parliament. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. It's about synchronising. That's our legal obligation, too. An emergency procedure has been proposed because compliance with the Constitution and the law should not be delayed. These are about the observations of the representatives of the working group in relation to what has been changed in the current Rules of Procedure, what has been offered as a new solution. You have all received a proposal from the Rules of Procedure, so during the debate, we will have the opportunity to plead out concrete remarks and suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42772	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milos Aligrudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42773	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS did not want to participate in the work of the group that developed this draft Rules of Procedure. In my first part of the exhibition, I will look more closely at what the reasons are, and that will, after all, open the question of the quality of the debate on the quality of the text that is before us. In fact, even in the previous assembly of the National Assembly, there was an idea and work was started to amend the Rules of Procedure, and then all of this stopped first because it was worth the second act before, it was the Law on the National Assembly, and then those two acts were somehow brought into line, not in this way being a procedure provided for by the Constitution or a constitutional obligation. The National Assembly passed the Law on the National Assembly shortly ago and, of course, it was necessary to bring in as soon as possible a Rules of Procedure that would comply with the Law on the National Assembly. However, the way these two acts were adopted in this home or how they were discussed is not the way we agree. Namely, our deep confidence that the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are two acts that should be adopted as I extend my consensus. I know it's often impossible for everyone to vote for such a proposal, but at least it should be a number far greater than two-thirds of the MPs. First, it is important to explain why such a condition is necessary. So, the condition is necessary because it is about regulating the functioning of an institution in a way that is older than the political will of parliamentary groups and the relations of political forces in parliament. As a group of political parties now acting on behalf of citizens in parliament making up the ruling majority, the same group of political parties can represent a minority opinion in the National Assembly the next day. to represent that part of Serbia's citizens, a people who did not have enough votes to place their political confidence on pedestal executive authorities in Serbia or legislative authorities in Serbia. Since that is the case, these acts must take care of the continent, not the particular interests, and therefore need as much consensus as possible. Another reason why a broad consensus is needed in such decisions – The National Assembly is the only state body in which, by the letter of the Constitution, representatives of all political parties who participated in the elections and won enough results to represent the interests of citizens in this House. No other state body has representatives and authorities and opposition within it. The very word of the congregation in its original meaning means gathering. Some have a word for that assembly, etc., gathering. This practically means that it is about gathering all relevant political forces. Some of them make up most, and others are able to oppose those who have made that majority. But it's the only state body, not in Serbia, but in a democratic world, which is based on these principles. That is why the functioning and technical functioning of that body, and the regulation of certain rights and obligations concerning the Assembly as a whole or the functioning of the way in which the procedure is respected in Parliament, is also important for the so-called Parliament. One side and the other. If one party, in particular by using the position of effective power in a numerical sense, imposes such solutions, then the same party must put a finger on the head and imagine whether these solutions that have today foreseen such solutions that would correspond to the same political group, to the citizens they represent, the next day. If they are sure that these solutions would suit the citizens who represent both the political group and the next day when the group is not in power, then there is no reason for the behaviour that the ruling majority shows when it adopts the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll remind you of what I mean. More than a year ago, this assembly adopted most of the votes of the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the duration of the commission's work, which was set for the creation of a new Rules of Procedure. So, completely neglecting the fact that the committee that was drawn up, a multi-party committee involving representatives of all political parties, including the DSS, had one job to do which was under way, adopts the will of the ruling majority of amendments and additions to the law, which, to a good extent, determines the direction of changes in the Rules of Procedure, completely ignoring, ignoring the need for political consensus. From that moment on, the DSS decides not to participate in the work of the commission, because we consider participation in the work of the Commission completely pointless. If we are to revote, if the Commission's work will face opinions, and the excess will always take the opinion that comes from the ranks of the ruling coalition, then there is no point in participating in the work and giving legitimacy to a job that it basically does not have. So we're saying all of this independently of the solution basically applied in this text. Of course, as time went by, so some text in that working group crystallized. I am sorry that some of the opposition colleagues participated more or less in the work of the group, thus giving it legitimacy. After all, it is everyone's right to assess their actions and their significance. Anyway, it's been a long time since then. For all these months that are behind us, this working group has done some text that is now in front of us, and if we are now looking at this text independently of these remarks regarding the procedure and the question of respect for the fundamentals of legitimacy, there is nothing worth working on for months. This text that's in front of us is someone who wanted to bring it in unilaterally, as is clearly the case, could have been made for one weekend, maybe to add another week for some more skilled norms to fix maybe some nomotechnical errors that have possibly been subdued, because we, too, who are lawyers, and we're not nomotechnics anymore, as specialized norms, can sometimes be wrong. The solutions that have been made here, that let's not know how significant the paper, etc., represent nothing else in one part of this text until the mere alignment with the already passed Law on the National Assembly and certain solutions that are provided there, because they simply have to be brought out here in some way. Some of the other solutions that are envisaged here, I must say, differ entirely from the basic principles of democracy and parliamentaryism. What is our goal? Is the aim of achieving an efficient work of Parliament? Yeah, I agree with that. Is the goal of there being standards that would prevent barren, unnecessary obstruction in the work of parliament every time a particular political conflict happens that can develop such a thing? Yeah, I agree. Should the norms to regulate these issues be at the same time at the expense of democratic principles and the principles of Parliament's work, whose Latin word in the root means discussion, conversation, speech? No, I don't. I'm afraid this text is in conflict with these basic democratic principles. After all, protecting ourselves from some obstruction, protecting ourselves from the possibility that at some point we might lose at a pace, to lose some extra time, etc., we are going to cross the line of what can be called polite in a democratic parliamentary society. When it comes to political relations and international political assessments of the work of individual countries, especially when it comes to large processes, such as the EU accession process, where the European Commission gives certain assessments or assessments of the work of individual countries that are joining, I am afraid, not when it comes to our country, but also to other countries, it does not take too much care of these basic principles on which the EU has actually grown or built, but rather takes more care of this other principle, the principle of efficiency, in order to close the political process somewhere. You know, we're not brainless people in this country. We are not people who have to draw everything and who are unable to read it themselves and understand certain things from a certain parliamentary experience. If we're the way we want to show ourselves, then we shouldn't even exist, then we better not have a country. It's better if there's no democracy in the state, then there's better there's another system, so it's gonna be irrelevant what any of us thinks than we do what we're told. And that these same countries that, through their common bodies, international bodies, tell us what to do in Serbia, do not do the same in their own countries. If this Rules of Procedure is to be, therefore, the resultant of a certain pressure or a ridiculous commendation of one authority's activity, which wishes not to lose time or not, my God, choked by the opposition's debate, then that is the only reason why this Rules of Procedure is no good. He's not good. If he should be an instrument of tyranny by the ruling majority over the minority, it's also not good. All of what we have heard here from the arguments that are reportedly established in this Rules of Procedure some healthy relations between the government and the opposition through certain institutes, let's just take for example one of the institutes, that's the College of the National Assembly, in which it writes exactly who participates and what it does, etc., that's a fact. So, the indisputable fact that it's written. How does this work in practice? How do you decide in this college? What decision does the College make? Don't bring any. The college is a courteous body and as a courteous body should exist, we're not against it, but we don't like to hear that the institution of a courteous body, which is supposed to exist, is being glorified here to the extent that it is believed to be an instrument of respect for the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is not respected, the MPs and their integrity, and above all, in relation to the citizens, it is not respected by these standards. I'm going to give you an example of the kind of norms that integrity can be respected. This task force has, for example, not solved some of the questions that life practice itself imposes, which, let's say, would have worked normally or had we all worked together properly, without any fear of revote, would have probably been resolved. If the Constitution gives citizens the right to propose laws, if the Constitution gives the People's MPs the right to propose laws, regardless of which group they belong to, to the ruling or opposition, as it is possible that there is no safeguard provision in this Rules of Procedure that this right of citizens and MPs to propose the law would consistently implement. Here it's just about the law's right to propose and what's going to happen to a law that's not proposed in the form that's set out. Of course he won't be in the process. What will happen to the law that is formal in the procedure, which is proposed in the way that the Rules of Procedure provides, whether it will ever be discussed in parliament. He won't. There stands the expression – yes, but no – the sea. So you can put it on the agenda. The truth of the matter, it stands in relation to the legal proposals the government proposes, there is no difference in the text. But the difference in practice is very simple. She doesn't have to be specifically explained. A man needs to be very incompetent to reason so he doesn't notice that difference. The ruling majority decides on the agenda. The ruling majority supports the government, in every country it is. It is natural that when the government's legal proposals arrive, they will find their place at the National Assembly meeting to discuss them. If there is no safeguard norm for the other side, the opposition's legal proposals and citizens' legal proposals can never be found on the agenda or the ruling majority can simply take them off the agenda when setting the agenda. The meaning of constitutional norm is not in this, the purpose of constitutional norm is in the debate. So it's one of the ways that the debate in parliament is stifled on important issues. One of the interesting things that you have put here, in my opinion completely unnecessary, which actually goes to the detriment of parliamentaryism and democracy in Serbia, these are these provisions about so-called "the so-called ". A shortened procedure. It is possible to imagine that there is a certain way and a shortened procedure, but look at it this way -- if there is no interest in discussing some point of the agenda, if there is no such interest, if it is not general or partial, but with an important legitimacy, there will be no debate, ladies and gentlemen. How many points did we have in Parliament where the debate lasted for an hour or 30 minutes, although it was foreseen by the Rules of Procedure to last five hours? There's been a lot of situations like this. The debate opens, it takes half an hour, there's five or six registered debaters, and the thing leaks. That means life itself regulates this moment. Whether a debate is important or not, less significant or more significant, it will be shown in Parliament itself. It's just amazing that a norm is being introduced that's going to say, for example, as it says here -- that it can be suggested to shorten the time for discussion, so in two, if it's five and a half hours it's going to be two and a half, if it's a minor change or addition of an existing law that doesn't change material solutions significantly. Here's an example where it can come to extreme arbitration in this respect and that a debate that could take a long time - five hours, because it's of interest to citizens, can by cold will most by voting on the Rules of Procedure's proposal in two and a half hours and interpret this provision in a different way. Let's just assume it's a law on changing the VAT rate. There is no change in material solution. The substantial changes in the material solution would be the elimination of VAT or its introduction for certain products. For example, an 18 to 22% increase or 25% increase, it doesn't have to be considered an important change at all. Here, someone here tells me from the ruling majority that it is a major change. All right, but also the existing Rules of Procedure in its own application is not respected by the ruling majority, by you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's say we have a situation this morning, in this session the same, the mergers of everything and everything in the process of bringing the debate together. You have mergers of everything and everything and, of course, since you've combined everything and everything, contrary to the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and you do it on a regular basis... I'm not saying, the DSS at a time when we were the ruling majority jumped out of this standard, but never as much as we've been doing in the last two years. This is really scandalous. It happened to us in some situations when it was in such a hurry. Then we even had some conversation with the representatives of the SRS at the time in the hallway, so somehow we agree to them and say we have to do it, etc. It's just that the weather at the time was carrying some tension. The Rules of Procedure were different, he wasn't as efficient as yours. It simply had to be done, but never to this extent was done as you do. Now you, for example, want to convince us that in this particular case that I've given for the rate of VAT from 18% to 22%, it's no smaller or larger change. No, it's going to be the kind of change of law you see at that point. And there's tyranny, so ladies and gentlemen, since my colleagues are still going to talk about this, we're here to conclude. Such a Rules of Procedure as you bring, by the procedure and the way you have proposed it, with the full lack of support of the opposition in parliament and of the citizens representing the opposition, cannot be brought with our votes. If you bring it with your votes, only with your votes, then let it serve you honor, so be proud and report to the European Commissions and various other international bodies and boast how effective you are. You can cancel it the next day, I mean the parliament, if you want. Here, do it. But an effective system doesn't have to be democratic. You see what you're going to do. It's a question of your will. Best to withdraw this proposal, so we can all do it right together. If you don't want to, your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42774	Ambassador Milisav Petronijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42775	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS Group will support the proposed Rules of Procedure in principle. We agree and believe that he in principle provided answers to all the questions he faced, but we also have a few concrete proposals to improve that part of the rules of procedure. We believe that, regardless of the procedure that preceded the draft Rules of Procedure, we have reached one Rules of Procedure that enables the Assembly of Order, Stability and Predictability, which defines at least the extent of protection enjoyed by the opposition and the political minority against the majority, which determines the duties and powers of assembly institutions, parliamentary groups, committees, which affect or specify relations between the Assembly and other institutions of government. Such a proposal by the Rules of Procedure has provided answers to these basic questions. Of course, there's no ideal rules of procedure. There is no ideal balance between the need for the Assembly to decide and the need to search, to discuss. There is no ideal balance between the authority of the majority and the right of the minority. There are no rules of procedure, no one to bring it in and whenever, if we do not understand the spirit in it, if it is not the spirit that is important to parliamentary democracy, which is the spirit of tolerance, the spirit of respect, the compromise. I belong to those who think that the best Rules of Procedure for a National Assembly is the agreement of parliamentary groups on all the issues that are relevant to the functioning of the National Assembly. When it comes to the proposal of this Rules of Procedure, it is in line with the Constitution, it is in line with the Law on the National Assembly. It defines the organization and way of working of the National Assembly and procedures, what is most important in the National Assembly. We've had opportunities to see that most of the Rules of Procedure or most of the Rules of Procedure are committed. Some 19 procedures have been elaborated on how all 19 decisions are taken in the Assembly, which is the decision-maker. Certainly, the most significant part, the most common part, is the legislative process. Maybe that's what the greatest attention is about. When it comes to this, we believe that the stages of the legislative process are very important, and the key includes assembly committees, and that is why the highest degree of attention in the new rules of procedure is, in fact, committed to committees, starting with a number that will ensure that it is effectively worked, but at the same time allowing all areas and competences of the Serbian Parliament to be covered. You saw that number down. Respectfully, I've been involved in it myself, that intensity, I think some measure has been found, even though I need to listen to all the other suggestions and see if there's room to improve that. Personally, I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legislative Affairs should remain separate, i.e. that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as it has been until now, should remain a special working body, for the simple reason that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs plays a very important role in the process of changing the Constitution, and you know, when the Assembly is mentioned, the first thing that belongs to it, it is the Constitution. The constitution and the law, the two strongest words in this country, are related to the National Assembly. I therefore believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs plays an important role and that it is therefore necessary to give this committee exclusive status and it was a good solution, and that was a symbolic solution, according to which the chairman of the Committee is the President of the National Assembly. When it comes to the number of board members, it's been tried to make some balance. There's still room to talk about it, does all the boards have to be 17? What matters most is that the committees reflect the composition of the National Assembly, therefore, to be small congregations. Without that, they wouldn't be able to perform all the functions they've been given here. Thirdly, which is characteristic of the committees, these are the very specific responsibilities of each committee, given the responsibility of the Serbian Parliament. The fourth, which is new, which defines the way the board works, how the debate takes place, how long the debate takes, how it starts, how it ends, and I don't want to take up time on those particulars. As the committee's session ends, I would like to warn all of us that there is obviously a technical error, because Article 156 lacks one, one sentence, which gives the board member the right to exclude the opinion at the board's session. I think in the course of this debate, and surely there are amendments like that, it will make it right, for the simple reason it's Article 51. The Law on the National Assembly very accurately predicted and cannot be the one that does not respect it. Of course, I agree that there is a need to specify the old one, how the opinion is excluded, and when it can be excluded from the opinion at the session, when voting, not in the hallway and outside the session. I think it should be fixed. What I also want to point out, which is that this kind of committee organization has only been envisaged since the new National Assembly called, which means that the previous committees, with current responsibilities, would be doing their job in this conference. Perhaps this is normal and necessary, for the simple reason that the Assembly does not lose its months to organize, organise committees, etc. The second thing I want to point out when it comes to committees, which is their jurisdiction, which I mentioned earlier. I'll be held for two or three. One is the authority to monitor the implementation of the government policy. The second is the jurisdiction to monitor the enforcement of the law and the third is the jurisdiction to consider the reports of the competent ministry and other state and independent authorities. The assembly must be more than just passing laws. It has an equally important obligation to review and monitor the implementation of existing laws, law enforcement, and only the two activities together can perform a good permanent process. I wanted to point out that part. I would like to point out one more thing when it comes to the committee's jurisdiction, which is that the Rules of Procedure has now defined the possibility by the board of public hearings. I think that this is one start through public hearing, the opening of the National Assembly, the legislative process to the outside, to the public, to the citizens, to the interested groups, etc., and that, in fact, through public hearings, the supervisory role of the National Assembly itself, a very significant segment, which I expect will develop more and more in the future and more to come to terms, for a simple reason, I will only mention, that it gives the opportunity for citizens to express their views on the law that concerns them, before it is adopted. The second segment I would like to point out, which is a very important part of the Rules of Procedure that goes from the next, which is – it starts with the Assembly being the one who makes the decision, but it is a very important question – how does this decision take, how does it make the decision? In this context, the very important question is – what are the rules governing the process of debate; how much time should be spent for discussion; how is this time allocated to parliamentary groups? It can be equal to, proportional to the number of members, here is the definition of a proportional number of members, which I think is good. In general, one attempt to strike a balance through this Rules of Procedure between the value of the search and the need to make a decision. I would like to say that this Assembly has positive experiences and that the Rules of Procedure have not been changed in this respect when it comes to the debate of the session of the Assembly and, of course, the amendments. I would also like to refer to the possibility given in Article 95 in a single sentence, which is that in the context of the debate on the law can be a basic and shortened procedure. There were several versions. We have defined ourselves for this, because we believe, as the Rules of Procedure foresees in one place the possibility to extend the debate, depending on the importance of the issues being discussed, so it also gives the possibility to propose and shorten the debate, and yet in a very limited number of cases, which certainly cannot be all, even those who are listed cannot be all who can be subject to a shortened procedure. When it comes to maintaining order at the session, I want to make my point. The Rules of Procedure contain rules and procedures to ensure that the work of the Assembly is orderly and that its discussions and discussions are constructive. It is normal for the president to be given the authority and responsibility to maintain order during the assembly session by giving measures, even removal, if they violate the Rules of Procedure or violate its work, re-establish order in the Assembly, to ensure that MPs comply with congregation standards of dignity, etc. I think it's something like this Rules of Procedure. I would like to make a personal reserve against the fines of the MPs. I have reservations for the following reasons. Money punishment must have a legal basis. Money that fines can be fined means proceedings and I have reserves here, but I fully agree that it must be ensured that MPs comply with congregation standards of dignity, that they respect order and everything that happens in the assembly. I think in the further work of this assembly, and only the conduct of the MPs will come up with these provisions that speak of fines. When it comes to procedures for the adoption of acts and other procedures, I have already noted that in 19 cases the Rules of Procedure worked them out. I would only be held for two, which is the National Assembly's report on the work of the government and the work of the ministries. It's given to committees, which is good. Finally, and the Law on the National Assembly gave priority to committees in the work of the Assembly, the focus of work passed on to committees, but I think there is something more to be taken into account in practice, which is that the government undertakes to periodically submit reports to the National Assembly on the EU accession process. This and for reasons for the Assembly to be informed about how this process is going, whether there are delays, what delays, etc. On the other hand, the Assembly itself is under pressure to harmonise a large number of legal regulations towards the EU. Also one newspaper, which I think is good, which is that the minister will be obliged four times a year to inform the committee responsible about the ministry's work and policy implementation in the area. These are all, with the process of overseeing the work of state authorities and independent bodies, attempts by the Rules of Procedure to strengthen the supervisory role of the National Assembly. I especially want to point to one sentence when it comes to independent bodies. Two basic characteristics of independent bodies are their independence and responsibility, but their independence does not mean their separation and excommunication from other organs, but autonomy in their work and operation. With the help of the very independent state bodies chosen by the Assembly, which are suitable for her work, is an opportunity, which gives the Rules of Procedure the opportunity, for the Assembly to strengthen its supervisory role. Thus, supervisory bodies should be helping the Assembly to perform its supervisory role. That is why good communication and mutual trust are needed. In the end, the National Assembly is more than a legislative body, a representative body that must be accountable to voters in the country. Of course, this Rules of Procedure has made an effort to improve, gives the basis for improving the responsibility of the representatives of the people. He gives the public the opportunity to get acquainted with what every MP does in the Assembly, and what he said, and how he voted, how diligently he fulfilled his obligations, etc. It is another thing that separates the Assembly from all other institutions of government, because it was, and now continues to be the most open state body. In the end, when it comes to the service, I want to warn you, I know it's not the time, the economic situation is difficult, but times will change, it will be better, I want to warn that the Assembly has very low technical capacity for the work of MPs. It is something that the congregation will have to deal with in the coming period so that it can function successfully. I will end up with what I started with – there is no ideal rules of procedure, there is no ideal balance between the authority of the majority and the right of the minority, between the prerogatives of the parties in power and the possibilities of other parties to call for responsibility, there is no ideal balance between the need to conduct the debate and the need to make decisions, between the need for the Assembly to act and the need for an MP to be heard, etc. (President: Time. ) This is an attempt to do as much as possible in the existing conditions, so that the Assembly can, on the one hand, work effectively, which it has shown in the last two years and, on the other hand, respect the rights of all MPs. (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42776	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42777	It is hard to talk about this draft of the Rules of Procedure because it is very difficult or almost impossible to see a clear vision of how the ruling majority imagined that this congregation was working in the future. Otherwise, our MP group doesn't have any opinion, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, that it's some kind of historic act that I don't know what to do. The experience from 2000 to today teaches us to adapt more or less each ruling majority of the Rules of Procedure to itself. I think that in that sense, it should be commented and found in it some basic directions as the ruling majority imagines that the Serbian Parliament should function. Exactly, if that is how we view this Rules of Procedure, it is clear that it is impossible for any opposition party to agree on such proposals. First, about what the proposing representative said, about the three roles that the Assembly has and the three branches of government, I really cannot find any provision of the Rules of Procedure that in any way enables the control role of parliament or in any way respects the principles of some basic democracy in which the opposition's opinion is respected, i.e. minorities. I do not see how the Assembly will speed up its work and contribute to the quality of the laws that are being adopted to be better. I think this Rules of Procedure is quite the result of a situation that shows more than anything how inert the ruling coalition is and how much time we live in today is different from how the ruling coalition sees it. I think this Rules of Procedure has only legitimateized the drive since last year, if I am not mistaken, which wanted to speed up Parliament's work. Then some steps were taken, today they were continued, but I really don't think the Serbian Parliament has any problem with the speed that laws bring. I don't understand the tendency then to speed up such a process even more. The Serbian Parliament passed 400 laws last year, this year hundreds. There's no reason for us to move forward at this point in time to speed up this process. Serbia's assembly is the most efficient institution in the country, the most transparent and it does not speak well of the Serbian Parliament. That says very badly about all the other institutions in our society. However, what has been an issue so far, that opposition representatives, for example, and in several recent reports by the European Commission on Serbia's progress on the way to the EU, these shortcomings have not been removed and this rules of procedure do not address them at all, even removing their head from them. I'll tell you that the basic objections, it's very easy to check, each of you can do it, and we've talked about it a thousand times in the assembly session, the public in the work, and the law-making process. The intention of such an objection is not to end an emergency procedure and invent another, it is now called a shortened one, but rather the drive of that remark was to allow for a more transparent or public debate on each bill proposal, to prevent us from getting the laws on Friday night, and to have them on the agenda Monday, to adopt them in an urgent procedure, regardless of what takes effect in two or three years, so that the public debate is avoided. Last week there was a minister here, I'm talking about Minister Dulic, who said the Ministry of Spatial Planning deliberately avoided a public debate because the public debate would make it more complicated and everyone would have some suggestions to make. So, exactly what is the purpose of the public debate. We come naturally to a question of responsibility. I agree with some of the colleagues who spoke earlier that the vote on this Rules of Procedure will redefine who is the authority and who is the opposition in this assembly, but some improvement will not bring. However, that would be enough if it were a simple change of rules and we would simply have nothing more to add. Again comes the question, and the first plan arises, I don't know what to call it, but I have no other idea because I don't believe that the ruling coalition is anti-European, I simply refuse to believe it, although every day, time is increasingly denying me, what is the wish or intention behind this country breaking the contracts it declares to be its greatest successes? How is it possible for one Assembly Committee to be declared a committee to monitor the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Did any of those people who wrote this Rules of Procedure read the SAA, do you know what the first establishment of the committee means, the bodies of the Serbian Parliament, the joint body with the Assembly or the EU Parliament that should enable the monitoring of the process of European integration in Serbia in terms of the adoption, but also the implementation of the law? It is absolutely impossible to add that competence to the existing Committee on European Integration. This committee consists, I will try to repeat to you, between the representatives or MPs of our Assembly and the MEPs, there is also the Government's mixed committee, between the Government and the European Commission, these two committees at least twice a year, and always, if necessary, discuss issues. So it is a joint committee, a mixed committee of this Assembly and the EU Assembly, or the EU Parliament. In our opinion and the proposal we gave you a year and a half ago, the heads of the parliamentary groups must sit on behalf of the Serbian Parliament on that committee. This gives the committee legitimacy. This way, even as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I simply think it narrows down the quality of one committee, it is the Committee for Monitoring, Implementation of the Agreement. On the other hand, it takes time for the members of the Committee on European Integration, which is so lacking in the daily work they do, as far the most active, perhaps after the Committee on Foreign Policy, the most active committee in this Assembly, which only works by respecting the principles and the existence and attitudes of all parties in this Assembly, therefore, with the full consent of all. There are several major grudges, but the biggest offense comes to this urgency and this shortened procedure. You've listed in this proposal which you have in which cases may lead to a shortened procedure. Somewhere that can be justified when it comes to international contracts, but it's simply not due to the real situation. In this assembly, it is not used all the time when it comes to ratification of the contract. That's not a real problem, why did you solve this problem? As for the shortened procedure, who decides what law is European? It decides who writes on paper, which gives the law to the Assembly and says the law is European, and that is strengthening the control role of the Assembly. I simply do not trust that your ministers will have enough knowledge, expertise and desire to set themselves up according to the laws so that only those who are European require a reduced procedure. No European bill has been submitted in this assembly for six months, according to a report by the Serbian Government Office for European Integration, not according to our report. What we witnessed today, it is that all the laws put an emergency decision on it and that the law is being smitten in the assembly procedure, that only time passes and that after a month, two or three, that law is changing. Today and then we're going to divide that time into a shortened adoption procedure, then when we determine a mistake, because it's going to be minor and minor changes that don't enter materially into the law, and then we're going to have a shortened procedure. What are we going to discuss? I remember when I look, there are a lot of resistance colleagues here, I'll remind you that we had one action, one of the first resistance actions, when together with the MP, now the ruling coalition, Nenad Canko, we submitted one amendment to the then Serbian Parliament. It was an amendment to ban everything. The four of us were in the Assembly, we submitted that amendment, the formal promoter was Nenad Canak. We asked that everything be banned, not to be banned so gradually, but suddenly, so that only allowing what the ruling majority considers sufficient. So I think that it might be enough for the ruling coalition to do what it would actually want, which is to ban a search in the Serbian Parliament, so that committees can discuss it up to five minutes under the law. In which case, I will remind you of another scandalous decision here, which is that MPs who are independent of each other agree, and if they can't agree on who's going to talk about the amendment, then the first three who arrive at the President of the Assembly, breaking there from the last benches, have the right to speak, and the fourth one has no right to speak, because he's slow and doesn't deserve to get time to say something about the amendment. It's transferred from this Rules of Procedure, that provision has been passed on, it's not new. How did the Working Group not notice in two years that they could not take away any MP's right to talk about the amendment, how is that possible? It's a direct violation. I ask you who will decide what law is European, and your haughtiness and the force you apply in the New Market, the King, wherever you want, will not help us say that this is the European Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure is actually anti-European. He does not address what is the essence of our problem, and the essence of our problem today is the establishment of clear rules by which the congregation could function in the future. The intensity of the ruling majority is not that, the intensity of the ruling majority is that if an MP who leaves one parliamentary group on my left supports power, then his mandate is not taken away. If an MP leaves the ruling majority, his term of office is taken away. If Mr. Shormaz is, since we don't know whether he supports or doesn't support the government, he's still walking around MP groups, then we don't even know what the procedure is, so we're waiting for him to postpone. There's a way, Mr. Ristic, to fix it. You can tell in the Rules of Procedure that the MP who leaves the opposition party is holding his term, and the MP who leaves the ruling majority party is being taken away from him. Then we just know what we're on, and that's a clear rule. So there's no arbitration. We say – we are against it, you say – we are for it, it is a European standard, your Minister for Human Rights comes, for example, an interesting component. The committee may be established if only a simple majority of the parliamentary groups are sufficient to propose one by one to the committee, or how much it belongs to them, and thus the committee can be established. His number of MPs when it was established is also a quorum for decision-making. What's the difference with the Bosniak National Minority Council, why does it take 2/3 there? They're not high enough or there's no obstruction of your two ministers. Your intention here was to prevent the obstruction of the opposition from forming committees. And there he can, and there he's welcome, and there he needs 2/3, so since nobody has 2/3, there's no advice. Reminds me of a bizarre joke. That's what I'm talking about. There are no rules in this country. For something to be a rule it takes a certain time to apply it several times, and then we all know what the rules are, and we follow those rules. We cannot change them as circumstances dictate or how they go to the ruling majority. The second, or perhaps the key biggest problem besides this instability, is the lack of public debate. In all, or almost all parliaments in the world, there is something called first reading, second reading, third reading. That's what the ruling majority MPs know better than I do. Why is this change in the Rules of Procedure not used to introduce such practice into the Serbian Assembly? In order to explain what this is about, there is a bill or draft law sent to the committee responsible, a committee that makes up representatives of all parties giving its opinion, the key opinion of the legislator is to consider and return the second draft law to the Assembly, which then enters the ordinary procedure. Why don't we have that? Because our ministers don't know what laws they're going to propose and when the laws that were made in Kostunica's time are exhausted, then there's no law, then we replace the governors, the crimes against one people, the other people, and we just make it harder and wait for it to pass. In order for the media in this country to report only on our restaurant, not on what Ciplic is doing, what Oliver Dulic is doing, what these ministers whose names we don't even know are doing. We're surprised to see them on TV after two years. What's Dragin doing, where he was carrying the sacks today, who he promised what he promised today? It is the minister who carried the most kilograms in the history of Serbian politics. The other day, he also moved on to a combination, which would probably mean the government's modernisation. He's not wearing a bag anymore. Now he's driving a van. In the coming period, we can also expect agriculture to go that way. It's not politics, politics is in a clear vision. If you wanted the Assembly to be more European and the European laws to go according to a special procedure, then you had to use that basic postulate of democracy, which is to allow us MPs to control in a certain way whether some law is European or not. This should have been the responsibility of the Committee on European Integration or the Committee on the Monitoring of the Stabilisation and Association Process. It was supposed to be the board's jurisdiction and when Oliver Dulic said "the tendering is a European standard. "then that committee says "I'm sorry, it's not, it's not a European standard, it's something else. When you learn, go back to the congregation. This can't go through with an emergency procedure. "Then it is the control role of parliament, not our ability to ask ministers who then send us the answers after three months to questions we have not asked. I'm sorry I don't have one here. I got the funniest answer. That's Minister Vuk Jeremic's answer. I'll use my right to read the answer on Thursday and hopefully entertain you nicely. There's a nice question and an answer, so let's just see if anyone's smart enough in this congregation to connect those two. I'm not. A clear procedure on who determines whether a law is European or not, we have proposed amendments, it is a set of amendments, a set of new members that would in reality strengthen Parliament's control role and respect the opposition's opinion. These are the key things that you started defending this Rules of Procedure. You'll refuse, you won't accept. You'll say I don't know what, but then you lose the right to say that this Rules of Procedure has respected the opposition's opinion. On the other hand, we have often witnessed the choice of completely anonymous people for whom no one knows about some functions that are often very important. Sometimes the opposition doesn't agree with thinking that being a lawyer in a private firm, and just because he's a Bosniak, he should be in the Constitutional Court. The ruling majority thinks it's okay, since one Bosniak minister has its own Constitutional Court judge, so there must be others, so now that he can't find a quality one, it's less important. We think the system or way, or the public hearing mechanism had to become a commitment in such situations. That's what we suggested. What is the problem for the committee to listen publicly to all candidates that the Serbian Parliament should propose for a function? So we wouldn't be forced to do the same thing, I don't know if it's a legal stunt, but from a logical point of view, it's amazing that we're going to replace and choose the governor at the same point. Perhaps the ruling majority will vote not to accept the governor's resignation. So what's the score? As always, when it comes to arguments, there is this illusion that this boast can be answered, so I will no longer address the motionary. At the end of the line, it doesn't matter. If there was the ability to do something better, it would have probably been done. What we think is necessary, in order to avoid the next report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress being positive in the assembly's work, it is not possible to further shorten the public debate on the laws, that the government should not be allowed to decide what law is European and which is not, since, among other things, not capable of such a thing. That the control role of parliament must be strengthened, that Parliament's responsibility must be strengthened by the fact that everyone elected by parliament will have to go through public listening in the Serbian Parliament, that they will have to expose their programme, wishes, that they intend why they are running for something, that their biographies give us insight, that it is no longer possible for the governor to choose on the basis of one sentence – me, Boris Tadic or us, Boris Tadic, we propose Dejan Soskiæ as governor, but simply think that the board must maintain pre-discussion in order to know that he advises the MPs what to do. That's right in the case of the Radio Diffusion Council, in the case of the Constitutional Court Judge, the Supreme Cassation Court. It is in the case of all independent regulatory bodies that we have – the Council for the fight against corruption. We have questions for members of this board of directors who have more functions than all MPs combined, some of them. Why didn't they come to answer that? Why are they better than any of us? It's simple, the deterioration of transparency and the expansion of democracy would in itself... (President: Time. Bring the end. ) Subtract from the parliamentary group. If I'm not mistaken, that's possible. (President: Time. It's not possible. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42778	The word has an MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42779	The debate on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly raises at least two groups of questions - how much this Rules of Procedure has arranged our work and the conditions for making views that we are here and, on the other hand, how much this Rules of Procedure on our work is or will meet the expectations of the citizens of us to contribute to the public's work, to informing about the legal proposals that are being discussed here. Will we allow this Rules of Procedure and its provisions to regulate what is our obligation, to control the Government because we are a legislative body, to control the other bodies, to bring objections and recommendations, and to be able to meet these two groups of jobs? First of all, I will say that what the person representing this proposal has made, that he intended to strengthen responsibility, may have succeeded, but did he strengthen Parliament's role? I'll tell you the truth. No, it's not. The importance of the Assembly itself has been brought to the lowest possible branches by this Rules of Procedure by the time given to MPs for the debate on proposals where the Government appears to be the sole promoter, that the Assembly is offended by the procedures in which these laws are passed, especially where the proposal is shortened, that the Assembly is humiliated by the place from which only the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, representatives of the Constitutional Court, and by someone whose President of the Assembly is to go to the right, and MPs go to the corner, or speak from the place. Even that line of physical demarcation was made in a home that is home to citizens representing MPs. This Parliament has also been defused by a work plan, where you have put the government's work plan as a priority, not by the Assembly's work plan in line with its legal obligations. Mr Ristic, you represent this legislative proposal, how can it be said that we are strengthening the role of parliament if you openly grant to me, the SNS MP, who has been saying that this assembly is one of the executive authorities called the Government? You are proving this by putting in the Parliament's work plan that the Government's priority is to us by allowing a united debate, for example with more than three points, often very incompatible, you are devoting parliament and parliamentaryism at all. The minister's presence is, in the experience of both citizens and us, the physical presence of someone sitting on a bench, nice for the government's representative position, and that the point being discussed has nothing to do with the minister's affairs, nor does it have to do with the job description he has under the Law on Ministry and Government, is also the decoupling of parliament. The experience has shown that the rules of fine conduct and order in this room apply not only to MPs, but to all other persons who are here and participants in the debate, which has been advertised countless times, and that you did not put it in this Rules of Procedure, says that you do not care about the opposition, as an associate in a job called decent speech and an orderly state, which this Parliament must make a significant contribution to. Often, journalists, perhaps justifiably, ask us, why do you even initiate a procedure of not trusting the government or suggest some of the legal projects if you don't have 126 hands? All that is not directly placed through the government's decision through an emergency procedure, through a shortened procedure, through limited time to meet citizens with the rules of work here and the laws that will concern them daily, is arranged in a way that is decided by the Assembly. It was translated by that 126 vote. Is the creation of a coalition with 126 hands a temporary monarchy? No, it's not formally, but in fact we have a lot of evidence that it's actually a four-year-old, you like to say and expect it to be, we hope it'll be shorter, and it's a monarchy where there's no logic, no human freedom, no right to say, not even the right to respect and obligation to respect the Constitution. Let's explain this that sometimes we don't even have basic human freedom. The way in which the President of the Assembly at the beginning of the working day, and even in the new draft of the Rules of Procedure, informs of issues concerning work, does not mean that we know how long we will be working during the day, when we will have a break, whether the public will be provided by direct or delayed transmission. Do we, I repeat, travel hundreds of miles a day, need to find out, for example at 12.00 hours, so that we know that we are organizing whether we are tired of being able to drive to our seats and get to our seats again in the morning, because we are regular and we do not advocate deputies and deputy board members, or do you think that enough is at 1600 hours to say – we are extending the work. You think it's enough that there's an hour's break, which, at least on two occasions, you gave at 17.20 p.m., so that an hour's break could be used from 18.20 p.m., when the Assembly regularly completes its work. Is there a worker in this Serbia who can believe that one MP from this hall will fight for his warm meal, for his breakfast, for his right to go to the bathroom during work, if in this assembly the MP knows neither the day's work plan nor the monthly work plan, but that one will be appointed by the government on a daily basis, and we will be informed by those few equal, those who are from professional services or those who are closer to the government. It's not hard for me to say - thank you, but I feel uncomfortable that, as an MP, I don't know how long and when the Assembly will work today or tomorrow, as if I don't have any other obligations in life, family, personal, professional, etc. I have the right to say this, because I am one of the MPs who is most often in his place, not in his place of work, but in his place and who is seriously preparing, as most of the people who are seriously taking this job. Is the story of predictability and entry into Europe, the predictability of the law, the predictability of an orderly state is compatible and goes into step with what is called unpredictability of a working day and behaviour in this building that should be an example of reputation and respect for all. How do we set an example of reputation and respect for everyone? We use terms that we will language-correct with amendments, but in order to inform the public we say that we will organise public hearings. Do my fellow MPs agree to this passive term, where the debate on the laws they are going to make should be called - public listening? They listen silently because they can't speak. Unfortunately, of the god of such fate, and they listen to those who are not given the right to say and to contribute to the debate. When you take and read that member of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates public hearings, you actually see that it is a beautiful achievement called – a public debate, where suggestions are made, exchange ideas, but someone will not, because of the new speech and modernity, call it a public debate rather than calling it - public hearings. What do we want to say "apply" for a loan, not "apply" for a loan? How we want to stay on our own, and in some things we completely needlessly want to change the essence of some procedures, as we are changing the essence of something called debate in parliament. Unsettled working day, a procedure in which it is possible, where you suggest that, according to the reduced procedure, which should mean halfing the time for discussion, means, from 20 of these minutes that I am speaking today to 10 minutes, that the parliamentary group to which I belong with 25 has 12 minutes, and that this could lead to the approval of an international contract, a minor amendment or addition of existing laws that do not significantly change the material solutions, the termination of the law, the harmonisation of the law with EU rules, the amendment of the law relating to the Constitutional Court's decision, the authentic interpretation of the law, the election and the resolution of persons elected by the National Assembly, etc. Absolutely anything can be swept under a brief procedure. We are witnessing that what is written by the rule, but sometimes the exceptions in this House are actually the rule of conduct, and the exceptions are that we behave normally, that we have a debate on the agenda as planned, that we do not combine incompatibly or that we know when we will have a break in the course of work, when we will be able to go and do an elementary need that is called, eat something at the time of the day because you are early at six and you will at best arrive at your home and your children somewhere around 2:00 p.m. Do you really count that you deserve the respect of one of these Rules of Procedures, which, by the way, doesn't arrange anything and leaves the width for everyone, is sufficiently stretching for those four years of some temporary monarchy, where 126 hands can make this kind of lawlessness possible. No, I'm saying this Rules of Procedure doesn't deserve to be voted on. There's only one good side to the new side, and it's a debate and procedure to supervise the work of state authorities and organizations, as well as bodies where I mean regulatory bodies. I'll commend that. It is almost detailed how parliament should consider the work of the working bodies of that kind, except that one detail has been forgotten, although it is a small matter, but democracy is a procedure and formality, where the rules of the debate have not been established, so we have responded with one amendment, that even for the debate on the report, for example, the regulatory body is subject to the rule of law debate, who has the right to 20 minutes, to an unlimited debate, how many parliamentary groups, etc. You simply failed to define it, although you wrote how MPs plead on it. So that's the good side of this Rules of Procedure, one of the few. What I must not fail to warn my colleagues in time is a member of 127, which states in Section 1 that MPs use their own cards exclusively and that they should be identified when entering the O.R. by inserting a card into the MP's unit, or by checking out when they leave the O.R. Then in paragraph 3, the MP who has not been identified in the manner set out in Article 1 does not have the right to receive a word. The way you're prone, I speak from experience, not by suspicion, that means you can interpret this article 127. If you didn't identify yourself when you entered the O.R., you don't have the right to receive a word, even though you inserted the card when you asked for the word. Because in Section 1, it says in Serbian that MPs are obliged to identify themselves when entering the hall, when entering the hall, and not when asking for words, and it says that a MP who has not been identified in the manner set out in Article 1, I literally read your position 127, that may mean that at the moment when the seconds become so important to you and when you do not formally terminate the debate, use the interpretation, and you were inclined to deny us the right to speak because we did not put the card in order to help you have a quorum for work. These are not assumptions, this is reading the rules of procedure given and on the agenda. The fact that you have reduced the number of committees and established them to 19, but that it will only be valid since the next conference is an interesting newspaper. It is also interesting that each committee now has 17 members, each of which 17 can have a deputy. Why are MPs elected if they need deputies to be unable to attend board meetings because of the absence of someone else and more important work, so in that case, if each of these 17 members of the Committee had a deputy, we would need 323 MPs? We have 250 of them, and you've overcome it with a solution that any MP can be a member of several committees. Will you one day introduce an institution of a member of the reserve parliament? What's the story of saving, too many MPs, if the MP is prevented from knowing what he's going to do, what's the point on the agenda, if we don't have in this era an electronic government and an electronic assembly, one of these screens that's going to say how much more time there is? Is it hard to get into those computer systems of yours? Maybe the others don't know, Mrs. Comic is doing great with it, bringing in the used time, and every moment we know how much time we have left. Why should we ask? Why isn't he standing on the agenda floor, what are the next points, which the debate is united? It's the experience of those parliaments where sometimes as members of the delegation we had the opportunity to go and see. Go, see, you didn't put it in this Rules of Procedure. We also have one newspaper that the three committees are more equal than the others and that these three committees, more equal than the others, in one indirect way, are jeopardizing the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group and the MP himself. When Mrs. President says she will consult with the president of the parliamentary group to appoint members of the delegation, she takes the right to be more equal than others because she must have an agreement with the president of the parliamentary group, whom he will propose, not a non-binding consultation. The president of the parliamentary group proposes his members as a delegation and cannot take his right to judge, for example, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which people in which the delegation will go somewhere. I have not intervened in this amendment because these three committees, more equal than others, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has one resource called - travel, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, have a little more equal, to interpret what are unclear provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so that it will judge what is most important, and the Committee on Administrative Budget and Budgetary Immunity Issues is more equal than any other committees, because it will determine what the budget for the work of a particular committee is and whether the penalty for those who oppose the president, or the chairman, can be charged from the salary, if it is received, or will be deducted from the fee, or from the parliamentary allowance. One newspaper that's interesting, it's simple for Ripley, I often have a habit of saying, but what I'm going to do when you give me a cause, is that when someone abuses the Rules of Procedure to re-explain the same provision, steals some minute or 13 seconds, which mean a terrible thing to us as a state, you're going to say no to it from time, if the MP group has time at their disposal. If it doesn't, it'll go down to minus maybe at the next point. How are we going to apply that if the parliamentary group has taken advantage of the time? Please use all mental and other forces on this because it will bring Serbia out of the crisis we are in. The fact that it is prescribed for 15 seconds to vote, and you haven't said since the moment the president announces the vote, says that it really isn't pointless what my colleague said recently, that it is possible to go through an end to the debate. The Rules of Procedure can't get a transitional grade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42780	Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I was appointed to be a member of the Working Party for the draft Rules of Procedure and before that of the Law on the Assembly. Already at the first meeting, we realized that the ruling majority did not intend to accept the opinions, suggestions and views of opposition parties, and we did not want any of us to be icaban to the ruling majority, as Mr Bosko Ristic today could boast that this Rules of Procedure was the work of the Working Group made by representatives of all political parties. So we didn't want any part of it. I wish the citizens of Serbia knew, which is why I say, among other things, that the Working Group that was working on the draft Law on the Assembly did not have the conditions to prepare the law here in the parliament building, so they had to go to Divcibara for a few days to prepare the law in peace there. When it comes to the Rules of Procedure, then the Working Group had to go to one weekend or I don't know how many days in Vršac. That's where they found some convenient conditions to work on this proposal. Otherwise, the draft rules of procedure we are discussing today are extremely bad, extremely restrictive and this Rules of Procedure will actually end a parliamentary democracy that has been destroyed in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia for ten years, slowly but surely. It would be normal to change an act or to supplement an act to do so in order to do something better than what is eternal to power. Unfortunately, when it comes to this Rules of Procedure, we have even more restrictions and much more impediments of the MPs to do their work that the Constitution should do, than was now current in this Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, we should remind ourselves that actually the collapse of democracy began ten years ago when, as you like to say, it was a formal act of democratic change. It is the work of Parliament and our Rules of Procedure that shows that what is now at work is neither "d" from democracy, but rather that it is, I repeat, a complete collapse of the democratic principles of parliamentary democracy and the rights and opportunities of the MPs to do the work that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted them with in the elections. A colleague of Bosko Ristic, as an authorised representative, said at the beginning of his presentation so nicely that this Rules of Procedure would now very much respect the opposition, and here I will, on several examples, show you fellow MPs, and above all to the public of Serbia, that in fact this Rules of Procedure would further limit the rights of the opposition, which have been indeed maximum so far. I will remind you of that in the previous Rules of Procedure, not the one that is now in force, but the one before it, there were those two very famous members of 225 and 226, who allowed the MPs, from time to time, or whenever they had the need for it, to get to know the public of some important current event, to transfer to the public and to the National Assembly a position from some part of Serbia where citizens appear when something alarming happens, and when it is actually the only possibility that they will respond quickly and that the quick public meets this Parliament. You then abolished the possibility of these two members reacting in this way by adopting this Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, SRS MPs have made the most of the opportunity to exempt from the ruling majority's decision at board sessions, in order to express our political position and we have had the opportunity to explain within five minutes why we have singled out our opinion. You are again, to silence the MPs of the SRS, in this Rules of Procedure and to abolish that possibility. I will also remind you of the Security Committee, whose president was Dragan Todorovic recently, the president of the SRS parliamentary group, that you have removed Mr. Todorovic from the seat of the chairman of the board, because he insisted that the Committee receive serious information from the competent services, first of all, you remember the "Aerodrome" and Bojan Krišta affair, then the "Shumadi", "Caktus" and "Macva", which we claim even today when we would really get to the final lighting of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, this latest affair "News" and "Luka". You could no longer bear to have Mr Dragan Todorovic convened the committee sessions and, among other things, to be a subject on every committee and you found the simplest way to get rid of it, to replace Dragan Todorovic from the post of chairman of the committee. Prior to that, the most harsh violation of the long-established relationship in parliament, which committees as most important should belong to the strongest opposition party, above all to the Administrative Committee, and this Security Committee, and you have taken over one of those committees and thus violated these fine agreements and manners that we once set up in this House long ago. How will the committees function now? You in public when you speak, you from the congregation majority, then you like to boast that we are now going to transfer the maximum work to the assembly committees, that there will be the most important things about parliamentary life in Serbia and then introduce a deputy board member, which is truly amazing and we know that it has passed as a solution also in the Law on the Assembly. But, of course, the Law on the Assembly is not the Constitution, and we have the right to continue to say that this is a very bad solution and that it should not have been transposed into the Rules of Procedure, and here we are now telling you that this possibility will be very misused, because, first of all, you did not exactly write that every member of the board will have its own deputy, but there will be members of the board and deputies, so whenever you lack a quorum, you will give one of your deputies and so you will lose the balance of power in parliament when it comes to board members, who are guaranteed by this Rules of Procedure. Also, working on committees is limited by participation in the debate to 10 minutes of board members, which is also unacceptable, and MPs who are not members of the board will be able to speak on boards, but provided that colleagues who are board members give them their time. Then will it be possible to buy that time, sell it and trade it for a reason? It's something amazing. The real collapse of Serbia's parliament began in that Rules of Procedure when you abolished the quorum, when you limited the time that the MP can use when he talks about a subject and when you allowed yourself to have the president or the chairman channel how some MP can talk about the subject. Since that place, Madam President of Parliament, it has been said -- time, topic, since then, you have abolished parliamentary life in Serbia. And you remember well that Rules of Procedure, which was valid until 2000, when MPs were able to speak as much as they wanted and whatever they wanted, and that is the real parliamentary life, because MPs only correspond to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, answer to their parties, and parties respond to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You, unfortunately, have completely abolished it. What happens, you predicted in this Rules of Procedure, say, when two MPs submit an amendment with the same text, that only one MP would be able to explain that amendment for two minutes? In which way these two MPs will agree on who will be the one who will speak those two minutes. Are we going to fight to get a chance who's going to check in first so he can talk? You haven't thought at all, I have to admit, about what you've offered us here in this Rules of Procedure. As far as the quorum is concerned, I've already said that what you've allowed to do without the quorum, which sometimes sits in the hall of 10, 15 or 20 MPs, is also destroying democracy. I believe you know that, but you don't want to hear the negative impression of Serbian citizens towards the National Assembly is primarily because they see an empty room. I don't know how much you communicate with the people, but people in every place ask – aman, how is it possible for a congregation hall to have 10, 20 or 30 MPs, and there are 250 of you? That's what the media is about, and then it's the media's fault, and it's the people's fault that it's such a national rating. Unfortunately, you gentlemen from the ruling majority, who are gone today in parliament more than 15, are responsible for that, and every time we say, say, let's call in this way, we call in those who are recording the hall, we say -- take pictures now, look, let's say from the DS today there are only 10 MPs in parliament, then Mrs. Comic says -- please, you've broken the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to express the facts of the MP's personal life. That's absolutely not true. Mrs. Comic, please don't throw it away. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, remind her. If the MP told his colleague that he was a kleptomaniac, that he had a girlfriend, that he was beating a woman, then it would be bringing out the facts of his personal life. If the other MP resents that he does not sit when an important topic is on the agenda, that is, because everything that happens here is important, then it cannot possibly be interpreted as bringing out the facts of personal life. In the proposal for this Rules of Procedure, Article 102(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is hereby broken. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when you wrote that the MP must personally resign before the term of office, and in Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly and loudly writes that it can also be done by an authorised representative of the political party to which the MP belongs. We're also interested in this shortened time for so-called. European laws. I'd like you gentlemen from the ruling coalition to tell us first who rushes you into the EU? Do you hear Angela Merkel, do you hear those who say no more enlargement of the EU? Do you see this chaos in Greece as an EU member? Do you want to bring citizens of Serbia into such chaos, even if someone wants to join the EU or you want to join the EU, whose parliamentarians made a decision a few days ago to force those five EU countries, which did not recognise the fake state of Kosovo, to recognise it? You want to pass laws, in short time, so that we can draw as little attention to Serbia's citizens as possible about the EU's execution? How will we, gentlemen, represent the citizens of Serbia, according to your restrictive rules of procedure, when we do not have the opportunity, and we have the obligation to bring out from this place the political views of our parties and we have the obligation to express the views of the citizens with whom we contact? We, unfortunately, can't do that in this Rules of Procedure. How can we inform the citizens of Serbia that a haika is being led against our president, that Zagorka Dolovac does not want to answer questions, that is to say who Vojislav Seselj is threatening, that it was Vojislav Seselj could have sent a message from The Hague tribunal, when and if he intends to force Alexander Vukic to say in criminal proceedings when he brought in a note that Vojislav Seselj ordered someone's murder and whose murder? We need to state our political party's position, let's say, that we strongly condemn Boris Tadic for being in Srebrenica on 11th, why he didn't show up yesterday in Kravica and Bratunac. How can we say that now based on this Rules of Procedure? How can we say that yesterday, a colleague named Nemanja Sarovic at the border was stopped by our Serbian police, that he had barely crossed the border, that he had to answer the question whether the people sitting with him in the car were also radicals, that they insisted on showing them a diplomatic passport if he wanted to move to Republika Srpska? How can we say that yesterday we had big problems and that we were bullied in Bratunc for not letting sympathisers and members of the SRS show up there with shirts on which the character of Vojislav Seselj is? How can we say that we, the MPs with diplomatic passports, have barely managed to break past a bunch of police officers to pass the wreath, which is why we went to Bratunac, unlike Boris Tadic, who was in Srebrenica to boast that he would arrest Ratko Mladic, so when Ratko Mladic can't write today's newspaper, to threaten the prison of Bosi Mladic, because God has found some weapons, although they've been looking for him in her house for eight years, so they just found him before Tadic's departure to Srebrenica, that he can boast that at least he did something on the Mladic case. Yesterday, in Bratunac, we managed to spread a 20-foot [30 m]-long banner. One said "Serbia is not genocide", on the other, "Tadic is not Serbia". We have had great problems to do and we want to share it with the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Republika Srpska, who are monitoring the work of this parliament, and we want to warn ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when they talk about it, when they negotiate some bilateral relations, to remember that too. I make this all an example of how we will no longer be able to do this sort of thing, which is necessary for the work of Parliament, to stand by this kind of rules of procedure. How can we say that Sasa Jankovic does not have the right, as a protector of citizens, to change spelling and introduce Ustasha, a Croatian novelty in Serbian and to force me to tell you, Madam President of Parliament, that you are president? No, you're the president. So the rights of the MPs and the rights that we, as Parliament, must have here, have been completely destroyed. The point is that the peoples are MPs, that the media, that the judiciary, the MPs of the assembly majority, I think you are the most literal of Tadic's subjects. If that weren't the case, let's say, yesterday the media would have published something about what happened from Bratuntz, which I was just talking about. (President: Time. Please, just one more sentence. (President: You've spoken beyond the agenda for a long time. I'm sorry, I'm not. I'm just an example of what a restrictive Rules of Procedure will mean. So, one more sentence. The parliament has been irregular for a year and a half thanks to its rules of procedure and the parliamentary majority that allowed the SRS to steal its mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42782	Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a single search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the MP groups of New Serbia, LDP, SPS-JS, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, SNS, ZES and SRS. I also inform you that the session of the Traffic and Connection Committee will be held at 1400 hours, in Hall I, at the House of the National Assembly. I'm setting a 60-minute break. We'll continue at 1450 hours. The first speaker is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon, according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in a single search on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first to be declared is MP Djordje Milicevic, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42784	I would like to say at the very beginning that the SPS-JS parliamentary group in principle supports the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe that it is responding to the basic requirements to be met by parliament as the highest body of the legislative authority. First of all, we think about efficiency, democracy and the public in the work. We believe that the proposed Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will make it possible for parliament to work even more efficiently, that it will actually enable a qualitative shift in Parliament's work, but we want to believe that it will provide both the control and control role of the highest legislative body. Otherwise, when it comes to the work of the Republic Parliament, given that this is a very common topic in the public, I would like to say that – unlike the time when we were objectively in the distance between what Parliament must and should do and do, I am referring to the adoption of laws that are the condition of the continuation of reforms and when it comes to economic and social issues, and when it comes to European integration and what was happening at that time, and it was a broad interpretation of the current Rules of Procedure on Labour – we today, after the adoption of the names and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Parliament, have an effective Republic Parliament. I don't want to talk about the number of laws adopted, sublegal acts, regulations, girls, but it is clear that parliament has imposed a certain pace on the executive authority, which is extremely important. So, our assessment is that the Republic Parliament is working today in the interests of Serbian citizens, leaving of course room for the opposition to look back at all socio-political and economic problems with a strong margin of criticism. Having in mind first of all the findings made, we really want to believe that the proposal for a Rules of Procedure will be another step further, a step forward in terms of more effective work, and in the context of the realisation of those basic and essential tasks and the objectives of the highest legislative body, and when it comes to harmonisation of legislation with the EU, and when it comes to the adoption of legislation which will be the support of the economic and social policy at this point by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What I also want to say is that the proposed Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament certainly does not harm, does not disrupt, does not deny the democratic confrontation of parliament's opinion. Of course they are not in any way, our opinion, the rights of the opposition, as well as the even participation of all relevant political actors in the work of the Republic of Parliament. On the other hand, of course there's no public disfellowshipping in the work. I think the proposed Rules of Procedure, as Mr Petronijevic, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group said - has no ideal Rules of Procedure. But it is our opinion that the proposed Rules of Procedure represent one measure between the more efficient work of parliament, on the one hand, and respect for the rights of each MP and the position and the opposition, on the other hand. We believe that both the parliamentary majority and the opposition will be able to play their part, with the fact that, of course, we should always bear in mind that our responsibility to the citizens is common and enormous. The responsibility for the functioning of parliament is both on the MPs of the position and on the MPs of the opposition. That is why I want first to express my regret that no representatives of all relevant political actors participated in the political scene of Serbia, but I am convinced that through the debate we will have the opportunity to look together and respect all the arguments and legitimate suggestions and proposals, and I want to believe that after the debate is over, we will reach a broader consensus on this extremely important act for the functioning of the Republic of Parliament. It should also be pointed out that the text of the proposed Rules of Procedure is, among other things, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly. In fact, the proposal for a Rules of Procedure, as it is said among other things, offers a number of newspapers, but retains everything that has been shown to be positive and effective in the practice of Parliament through amendments and additions to the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. I must say once again that we support the intensities when it comes to the functioning of parliament to put the accent into work on committees, and we made that very clear during the debate on the legislation of the National Assembly. We want to believe that, starting from this goal, by uniting the current committees dealing with the same subject instead of the existing thirty, we have in this proposal 20 Assembly committees. I agree with the finding that there are currently committees that work a lot, but also those that rarely or simply don't meet. Of course, we believe that, despite the reduction of the working bodies, the new rules of procedure on work will be implemented by law and by the Constitution of the intended functions, both legislative and control and electoral. We believe that we may once again need to consider the proposal, in particular due to the importance and importance of the committee, that, instead of the proposed Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we have two committees, i.e. so far, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legislatives. It is very important that Parliament's president propose an annual work plan of the Assembly, starting with the annual programme of the Government and the obligations of the National Assembly, of course in accordance with the law, and this is foreseen by this draft of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal for a technical amendment of the law will be made by a reduced procedure, i.e. Article 95, clearly specify which proposals, which may be subject to a shortened procedure. Of course, what should also be pointed out, which is very important, is that the draft Rules of Procedure provides for thematic sessions on the topic of the current issue through parliamentary issues, and of course remains the current possibilities of direct communication with government representatives in the context of asking parliamentary questions to government representatives every last Thursday of the month. We believe that the draft rules of procedure will strengthen Parliament's control role and ensure better supervision by the RS government and ministries. What has not been defined by the Rules of Procedure and which is, in some sense, characterized today as a political stance are the duties of Members of the Parliament in permanent work. We believe that perhaps during the debate in principle, the debate in particular should be reconsidered once more, because sanctions for not attending the session do not exist, except for the citizens' court in the elections. Speaking of sanctions, we believe that Article 114 should also be reconsidered. So, it's about fines, because it really raises the question of how, according to Article 114, punish someone who has no monetary income in the Republic Parliament. Finally, once again, I would like to reiterate, in principle, the SPS parliamentary group – the JS supports the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that the proposed Rules of Procedure will improve the form of dialogue in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42785	Eight minutes and 15 seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. Before I give my word to MP Srdjan Spasojevic, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working today after 1800 hours and until the completion of a single search of the agenda that is currently subject to our work. The People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, is before us a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure that we practically edit this courtyard in which we work and represent the citizens of Serbia. It must also be said that in Rule 1 of the previous Rules of Procedure there are certain rights and duties of Members of Parliament, I have the impression that these Rules of Procedure too speak much more about the duties of Members of Parliament than about their rights. When we start talking about the new Rules of Procedure, I will just briefly remind myself of a small history, the last two years that have led to the development of the proposal of the previous Rules of Procedure, the Law on the National Assembly, and this Rules of Procedure. In September 2008, the president of the National Assembly formed the Working Group for the Making of Rules of Procedure and I was a participant of the working group, as well as the Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the National Assembly. We must now say to the citizens of Serbia that both the opposition and the position took a very correct part in the work by 2009 and three or four months are working intensively in a good and constructive atmosphere. Then there was one pause that many called out, why it wasn't the Law on the Assembly, why there was no Rules of Procedure, and it lasted a month or two and then on the general surprise of all the MPs of the opposition, in February 2009, lex specialis, the Rules of Procedure, which was drawn up I don't know where, we don't know who made it, but not this Working Group. Since this was done in such a way, we have practically been involved in further work and in the Law on the National Assembly and in the new Rules of Procedure only partly in some ways in order to see practically what the ruling majority is preparing and doing. I will remind you that a reverse order has been made – the Constitution and the law say that the Law on the National Assembly is first passed, and then the Rules of Procedure on Work. We practically have a situation that one Rules of Procedure has been brought in, so the Law on the National Assembly is passed, and now we are going to respect a situation to satisfy all these legal forms. The rights of MPs, particularly the opposition, in this House with these Rules of Procedure, lex specialis, 2009 were denied. The time of address is according to amendments from 15 minutes down to two minutes. There are indications that these rules of procedure wanted to reduce us further. But that's where representatives of international organisations came in who said it would be below all levels, so they moved on to this sort of thing. Now let me say a few words about this Rules of Procedure. First of all, whether there will be 30 or 19 committees, this is also a matter for some future assembly of the National Assembly, which is clearly spoken here in these transitional and final provisions, but when I was on one of these groups, however, in a short period of time, I insisted that when I made the Rules of Procedure not only limit the time for the MPs but also for the ministers who came to this assembly to limit the time. It is unacceptable, apart from the introductory word that the minister may have, and should be limited, there are countries in the EU that have such something, ministers may have an opening and closing word, let it be 20 minutes, but it is unacceptable that in a direct debate, when the heads of parliament or MPs enter the dialogue with the minister, the MP can address something for three minutes, and that the minister has unlimited right of time, which is usually for some personal promotion, party promotion, etc. We must clearly tell the citizens of Serbia that the ministers here have come to a home that has been elected and cannot be a minister that has more rights than the MPs have. If we want to go by people -- the minister is a minister, it's okay to be a double time, three times two, it's six minutes, but it's not going to come down to a discussion of 14, 17, 20, 25 minutes. This is also about sanctions from MPs. Nothing's changed here, except it's about percentages, not the fixed part. It was also necessary to consider whether ministers should be punished for their actions. We've been here for two or three years, and we can say that there are often mutually offensive words. Therefore, I don't think such a protective relationship with the government should be. I'm not saying MPs should insult ministers, but I think there must be a mutually correct relationship. We had a situation when one of the ministers ran out of his post and brutally insulted one of our MPs. There was no sanctions. That would be what I wanted to say when it comes to this Rules of Procedure. No criticism has been established that the opposition has not participated in the work. Yeah, but the moment the 2009 lex specialis fouled up, it lost all meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42787	Seven minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42788	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, on the day of the vote when we declare on the proposal of this Rules of Procedure, the MPs of the LSV hope that we will round up primarily normatively, and then create preconditions for the next assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia so that they can work in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly. However, with some MPs, it remains regrettable for the missed opportunity for the National Assembly to be better positioned, especially in relation to the executive power, but there will be opportunities, this process has just begun. The author of this Rules of Procedure did not want to extend, and therefore did not mention the work of previous working groups that also worked on the proposals of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We see that some of the work of this last working group has been made easier because it has rightly taken place since some earlier versions of the proposal for this Rules of Procedure. This assembly of the National Assembly will also be remembered by the fact that it has been able to accept the amendments of its Rules of Procedure to many of them. It was not long ago that the work of the National Assembly was blocked by the famous members of 225 and 226 or by submitting thousands of amendments to one law by only one parliamentary group. Today, some in this home regretfully mention these times, and many of us were ashamed of the work of the National Assembly. The atmosphere in today's debate isn't tight and it's going right. Because it has become a practice in our work, and also because the new Rules of Procedure, when adopted, will only be applied from the next term of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As long as there is a parliament, there will be a struggle between the government and the opposition. The first would be to work in congregations with as little damage as possible to the governing structure, while others would say whatever they wanted. Perhaps the fact that when we begin to apply this Rules of Procedure, if we adopt it, today we do not know who will be the government, and who the opposition is, gives us the right to claim that this proposal is the measure found if it exists in which and in which way it should speak in this House. Never, and perhaps nowhere is it ideal, but it is always necessary to improve its work and by formulating the necessary discussion in the National Assembly. The number of hands in the National Assembly does not give anyone the right, nor the ruling majority, to challenge the right and deny the opposition the ability to express himself and maintain the necessary balance of power in order for the laws and all that the National Assembly is doing to be at a level not only expected of us, but also needs our society. All who have so far talked about the work of the Committee’s draft Rules of Procedure, if they have not praised it, did not have any serious objections. I believe that a good solution with the number of committees proposed is that some have been well connected so far. Here I want to stress my satisfaction that we have overcome the belief that we need the Diaspora Committee and relations with Serbs outside Serbia, because this was a dilemma. The idea that one MP can only be a member of one committee has no basis for me. The question is whether she could live, because the president of the National Assembly and according to this new proposal has more duties on committees. So it wouldn't be possible to realize that one MP is only a member of one committee. Among other things, it does not bother the possibility that MPs may be members of several committees. This proposal of the Rules of Procedure normally has weaker solutions. It's mostly when it talks about what we didn't have regulated now, such as using the times of the MPs in the work of the board. That's what I mean by that part about time transfer. What happens when one parliamentary group has more board members, how much time can it be passed on to someone who will speak, etc? The important thing is to see, we're going to be able to regulate the gap. We have a future opportunity to say to the two deputy secretary general that their mandate ends when a new one is elected. What if we had two and we picked one: who's going to stop the mandate? The budget of the Assembly is still taboo topic. We're missing an opportunity to bring him closer to what he's insisted on, it's work in the National Assembly. It has its function primarily or exclusively the Members of the People. That's what employees do. It turns out that's not the case with the budget. He is still far from the MPs of the people and far from the possibility that everyone for his work will have certain means with which to dispose and to be responsible for the spending of them. Such solutions are present in most parliaments, whose work we judge far better than ours. I don't want to stay if no one has said it, but the grammatical and literal mistakes will be corrected after the proposed Rules of Procedure has been made, but we need to know that all these mistakes that come before us and in front of the public talk a lot about our work and that we are missing something before we come out with proposals both in front of the National Assembly and in front of all our citizens. It is evident that the chairman will best assess that mostly men participated in the working group to draft this proposal for the Rules of Procedure. We didn't find it appropriate at least in an explanation to say that everything written in malehood can also be applied in female. It may be a chance to fix it and not to owe it, according to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, this proposed Rules of Procedure is more than good and in the day of voting we will be for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42789	Seven minutes and 25 seconds used by the MPs' group. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42790	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me first to express my dissatisfaction that none of the people who have proposed this Rules of Procedure attends this debate. No counterpart Ristic, no co-worker of Konstantinovic, no head of Parliament, Mrs Nada Kolundzija. I ask the question, who are we leading the controversy with and who should respect it or not respect our arguments for and against this Rules of Procedure? Let me now, as someone who deals with history and law theory, say something more about something called excellent business solutions. I'll quote some members. "The decision on committee issues is being taken at a session where more than half of the members must be present. Otherwise, unless a sufficient number of members are provided, the decision is postponed for the next session." That's a great solution. "When the committee finishes searching at the session, it elects a rapporteur who will submit a report to the Assembly on the work. The Budget Committee may choose more than one reporter. If the working committee is divided into a majority and a minority, both parties shall choose their rapporteur, who shall report to the Assembly. "A great solution. "Every MP has the right to ask questions to ministers at the beginning of each assembly session. After the answer of the minister in charge, the one who asked the question has the right to speak, and every MP has the right to interpretation. "Also, an excellent solution. "The government is obliged to answer questions and interpretations. If the minister cannot immediately mark the day when he can respond, he is obliged to do so no later than five days, with the restriction that the minister must respond to each interpretation and the Assembly to make a decision during the same call. "A great solution. "The parliament has the right to investigate in electoral and administrative matters. The parliamentary committee that conducts the investigation is even with the authorities, because it has all the rights as well as the investigative judges: the right to examine persons against whom an investigation is conducted, the right to call and hear witnesses of an expert, the right to study documents." What did the experts on constitutional law and state and law theory say. The conclusion can be summed up that in the context of the spirit of the Constitution and the intensity of the Constitution, it went to limit the power of the greatest parties and to prevent its long-standing stay in power. So the protection of the minority that needs to prevent the haughtiness of the majority. So what's the issue? Dispute is that these are the provisions of the Law on Business Order in the 1889 National Assembly. Of course, the comments were made by Slobodan Jovanovic and the great minds of our legal and political thoughts. That's the comment I just quoted. Now let's see what's short of what we knew in 1889, and what the promoters don't know now. For example, we have seen the powers and opportunities of committees under this Business Order Act, and now we have that it is contrary to the fundamental rules of the legal system of the provision of Article 23(2). The proposal, under which the Committee may be established in incomplete composition, and then considered to be a full composition in terms of determining the quorum for decision-making. What was normal 130 years ago, it doesn't seem right now. I'd need a lot of time, and our MP group doesn't have too much of it, so that all of their impressions, as someone who claims to know the theory and the history of law, are brought here. So I'm just going to go over my concept. For example, what should be said about too restrictive provisions on limiting the duration of the discussion at meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly, and particularly the restriction of participation in the discussion of other MPs who are not members of the specific committee? We have seen the rights and obligations of committees in the 1889 Rules of Procedure. It is also meaningless and non-binding formulation referred to in Article 151(3), where, in the light of the bill, it is said – it can also contain an analysis of the effects of the regulations. What does that mean? What is such a pointless provision in this member of the proposed Rules of Procedure? Something that belongs to the category of questions, interpretations and investigations, which I was just talking about. Asking parliamentary questions to the government every last Thursday of the month has unfortunately turned into a farce in just over a year. On several occasions, the government completely ignored its obligation to attend the session, and the answers to the questions were usually pale, superficial and most often did not refer to the specific question the MP asked. Finally, to ask the question why is the reasoned LDP proposal not accepted on the Stabilisation and Association Process Monitoring Committee? A colleague, Ivan Andric, spoke of it in detail with both legal and logical arguments. We didn't get any arguments for not accepting the LDP proposal. In doing so, I mean not just legal arguments, but arguments of logic and common sense. The logical conclusion is that it's either a daunting ignorance or an evil intention. Both are scandalous. Finally, I would add that this approach is just another step towards favouring the executive authority and an ambience called the inferior parliament as a singing society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42791	It's been used eight minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger, Zoran Shami, has the word, and then the Messenger of Constantine Samopalov. It's a much more efficient parliamentary unit when a parliamentary card is put on, it works much better. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42792	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have before us the draft Rules of Procedure, unfortunately again proposed in one wrong way. It is necessary to remind me that the Working Group worked on making rules sometime until February, I suppose, last year, when its work was interrupted without justification and when the ruling majority then adopted certain amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. When the Working Group gathered again to work on this Rules of Procedure, the DSS also requested a meeting of the Working Group and written by the President of the Assembly to explain to us what the intentions were. Is it my intention to bring one good rules of procedure through the general consensus of all political parties in parliament, which is justified by my deep conviction? I do not see any reason that any political party could have anything against the effective work of the Assembly or against the eradication of various indiscretions, insults and anything that should not be in parliament, which is regulated by the rules of procedure. So there are all the conditions that all reasonable proposals coming from parliamentary groups can be adopted. Or is it intentional, and so it turns out, to bring the Rules of Procedure back here by reputing ourselves, what is the rules of procedure going to be adopted by 127 votes, and then it will be the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, but the Rules of Procedure of the ruling majority? Since, thank God, most of our parliament is changing, it in itself means that the next majority, respecting such bad practice, is likely to be re-voted by the Rules of Procedure again. For those who are skeptical of the possibility of bringing the Rules of Procedure with a general consensus, I will remind you, in the federal parliament, I have appointed the President of Parliament in good time, we have adopted the Rules of Procedure unanimously. The Montenegrin authorities and the opposition also voted in common, and of course the government and opposition that came from Serbia. There's a witness here. The rules of procedure were adopted unanimously. The debate lasted ten minutes in total. So you can do it, but unfortunately you didn't want to. We didn't write the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. That's completely pointless. Let me tell you right now, the most well-intentioned to process this Rules of Procedure should have been written about 120 amendments, and of which about 30 essential amendments. I don't have time to talk about everything, but I'll just mention a few things. First, it is necessary, and it is not done, to impose in the Rules of Procedure any law proposed by authorised proposings, which is defined by the Constitution, must come to the Assembly's agenda in some reasonable time. Of course, it also entails the obligation to limit the legislator in time for discussion, because otherwise someone could explain the law for three months. This would, of course, apply to MPs, and in cases where the government is a proposing. It's not done. Furthermore, an opportunity has been missed to, personally, better arrange the work on the agenda points. For me, it's totally bad what we have now and what's being held in the Rules of Procedure, which is that we first discuss 30 points in principle, and then we start to discuss all these 30 points in particular. It would be much more logical and reasonable to discuss some law in principle and to discuss it immediately afterwards, while there is still a team of promoters, in particular. Not to say that it would then be instructed to introduce instead of one day to vote several days for the vote, with the right of the chairman that if he wants to, after each point, he could hold a vote or after five done points to hold the vote, and then move on. That would be, for example, reasonable. There are many provisions that don't mean anything because it's stated – as a rule it is, and then it's still a possibility that you don't have to use it in practice. For example, the working hours of the congregation. Says – The Assembly works on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, but can work practically, according to what it says, every day from 6 a.m. to 6 a.m. the next day. Practically without any restrictions, without any conditions when he can, when he can't, etc., which I don't think is good. Finally, I must say, unfortunately, I did not believe that ten years after 2000 we would have to fight again for the democratic rules of the game. What you're proposing here is not democratic game rules. I'm terribly sorry about that. You can only deny me by withdrawing this proposal, which you will make a commission of one representative of all parliamentary groups. Here, I am publicly applying to lead this committee and to come up with a proposal for a Rules of Procedure that will be adopted here by consensus. I know it doesn't fit the mentality of some of the rules of procedure, but I'm afraid that's the only way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42793	Six minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been given by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, in my presentation, I will limit myself solely to the proposal for a provision of a new Rules of Procedure relating to the Defence and Security Committee. In fact, most of our board members have spent a lot of time over the last two years analyzing possible solutions to the best way of functioning of this very important committee. To this end, through co-operation and with the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, the Geneva Centre for Democratic and Civil Control of Armed Forces has been organised by a series of consultations and seminars. And some of the opposition colleagues, specifically Jadranko Vukovic, were part of these delegations, say, in Berlin, where we had the opportunity to get acquainted with exactly the way the German parliament controls the security sector. And here we have considered all possible solutions, because I think that the other colleagues from this committee, who are now in the O.R., will agree on this, there are also Mr. Markicevic and Mr. Delic, it is very difficult for the board of 17 members to cover the entire security sector – both the military and the police and all security services. In some countries, there is such a practice. However, we felt that this was not the best solution for Serbia, and that is why we came to the proposal that the Defence and Security Committee be divided into two parts and that change should take effect after the next elections. These two years we're going to use it to prepare ourselves best for this very significant change. The first committee to be shared by the existing body is the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. We will have 17 members who will be focused on one of the most important issues for each country, which is the defence of the country, of course, and on issues related to both the military and the police. That's where we predicted a few newspapers. I'll only name two. The first concerns a very precise definition of the committee's role in considering a proposal to refer members of Serbia's military and other defence forces to multinational operations outside Serbia's borders. There's been a lot of talk about this in the last few weeks. We had about a month ago on the agenda and an annual plan to use the Serbian Army in multinational operations. We saw the other day that Minister Dacic received people who were going on a humanitarian mission in Haiti. This is a very important question and it is important to regulate it in the new rules of procedure. With my colleague, Sheriff, I have submitted one amendment to further detail this issue. You will see the text of this amendment and thus we fully comply with the existing legislation. Also, an important change from the previous Rules of Procedure is that this committee, in addition to considering the defence strategy, will also consider a national security strategy. It is important to state this in this Rules of Procedure, as the national security strategy is a roof strategic document from which everyone else comes – and a defence strategy and a strategic defence review, adopted by the Serbian government. The National Security Strategy will be discussed from now on according to the amendment we have submitted. I hope he gets adopted. In that case, she will also be discussed on the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. And the other committee that is forming the new rules of procedure is the Security Control Committee. It will be the smallest committee in the National Assembly. He'll have nine members, unlike everyone else who's 17. In this way we form a specialised body that will deal exclusively with this very important topic, civilian control and BIA, and VoA and VBA. Instead of solutions from the old Rules of Procedure, where it is said very briefly that the Committee only controls the work of the Security Service, we have very precisely defined in this Rules of Procedure of the New Committee's jurisdiction, and in accordance with the existing laws that regulate this area. This is just one step in achieving full democratic control over the work of security services. Of course, our parliament as an institution is still being built, but this step is very important. We have witnessed in the past few months intensive co-operation, very successful co-operation, in my opinion, between the Defence and Security Committee and all security services. In particular, the representatives of the BIA, both the VBA and the VOA, came on several occasions and provided us with reports of work. Here we have considered various issues, from fighting organised crime, through potential threats from terrorism, to a network of Serbia's military delegations abroad and just the formation of this new committee will further help to strengthen this co-operation and trust between the Assembly on the one hand and the security service on the other. In the end, I would have to refer to the comment of the distinguished colleague Radeta of the SRS, whom I deeply respect, because that is what education tells me – respect the older than yourself, but also because of its long internship in the National Assembly. She spoke of the reasons why Mr. Todorovic was relieved of the post of chairman of the board. I really can't agree with you there. The reason Dragan Todorovic was relieved of this post is because of the inadequate performance of the board president, the full abuse of this very important body for the party and for the personal promotion. None of what our constitutional obligation is, as far as civilian and democratic control of the entire security sector is concerned, we have not done, and that is why MPs of the ruling coalition have been forced to make such a move. On the other hand, I think that the current practice, which is not exactly a practice of a few decades, but only for a few years, that the opposition has a position as board president, has proved to be very bad. The committee has not functioned, and today we are witnessing that just when Mr. Bajatovic, as vice president, took over as acting officers of the Defence and Security Committee, we have far more effective work. We adopted all those reports that stood by us for a year because Mr. Todorovic didn't want to put them on the agenda. We finally adopted them and established adequate co-operation with all the elements in our security community. It's another thing that we're going to have to think about in the future, how we establish practice, who runs such an important committee as the Defence and Security Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42795	Seven minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta has been reported. You have no right to a replica. National MP Konstantin Samofalov expressed his position, as you have expressed your position, in respect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which prescribe the way they treat each other. National MP Veroljub Arsic has the word... (Verica Radeta, from Place: Injury of Rules of Procedure) Do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42796	Mrs Komic, I am speaking to you, or I am speaking to the MPs on the basis of Article 27, paragraph 3 which, as the current chairman, obliges you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A colleague of Samophalov had just literally spoken to me, by name and last name, and tried to explain, or said that I had not presented some true information. I did present the truth about Mr Dragan Todorovic's shift from the post of chairman of this committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42797	National MPs, the argument does not stand in accordance with Article 27, paragraph 3. Please don't abuse article 100. If you're going to explain Article 27's injury, explain Article 27's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42798	It is my concern that you do not take proper care of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just asking you to let me explain why I'm saying this, so you can tell later whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. I think it's absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure, what I just said. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42799	No, I don't agree, you don't explain the violation of Article 27(3), and that's why I interrupted you and asked you to use your right to speak of the breach of Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100, which is to say what the infringement of Article 27(3) consists of.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42800	In that you did not allow me, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, to replicate a colleague who spoke before me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42801	National MPs, the right to replica does not constitute a violation of the Rules of Procedure and what you have now done is a serious abuse of the rights of Article 100. Please don't do this. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word after him, MP Natasa Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under some pretext that the Law on the National Assembly was passed, that the Constitution was changed, so we should also bring a new Rules of Procedure. I could accept that, that we will technically regulate our obligations and responsibilities, however, it seems that this is only one excuse to bring in another Rules of Procedure which will and how to prevent the opposition from working and limit the right of the opposition to discussion and public word. When the government is good, there's no need for the opposition to shut up. He can talk as much as he wants, he can shout at the Assembly as much as he wants, he can interfere with the Parliament's work as he wants, the government's results guarantee that the next election will win, no matter how many oppositions have gone to show that the government has failed. And here I see this reason for making one of these kind of rules. This is far from a successful government, and this is the result of the self-will of several DS people and the result of fear of the opposition. You can laugh as much as you want, but from the DS kitchen for the past ten years I've seen a lot of Rules of Procedures you've changed to prevent the opposition from doing its job. I remember more times when opposition MPs were standing outside the hall so that congregation services wouldn't force them to participate in the quorum. I remember a time when MPs had to sign twice to pay them travel expenses, in the morning and in the afternoon. I remember a time when the parliamentary group could only submit one amendment to one member of the bill and had the right to defend it for three minutes. What are you gentlemen talking about, DS? It was all from Bosko Ristic's kitchen, while he was chairman of the Administrative Committee. And now I'm going to tell you, I took part in the work of this task force. Many proposals were accepted by the working group by opposition lawmakers. There is no such proposal in this proposal for a decision on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Once again, Bosko Ristic made his own rules of procedure and you signed it again, as if you had written it. I understand Bosko Ristic and DS. You would like the laws in the Assembly to be passed as elections have been held for the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions – behind closed doors, so that no one can see or know. That's how you want to pass the laws. Let's think about it, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, what is this Parliament, what does that word mean? The speaker, the place where it is spoken and the only place that the Constitution and the law are designed to fight various political goals and represent whose goal is better. That's what you want to end in order to remain in power. I must remind you that you have repeatedly made laws and decisions in the hope that you will implement them, and then you have lost power, precisely because of your arrogance and you have had to suffer some other majority that has applied your act. The DS can never call itself that, at least until it comes out publicly and says, we were wrong to lift the transfers of the Serbian Parliament session during Sablje and after "Sablje". You're talking about the EU. Let's take a look at Rule 105 of the famous Rules of Procedure. In Article 105, paragraph 3, he says, "From a pay phone in the National Assembly Hall, the President of the Republic (he is a guest here), the Prime Minister (also a guest) and other persons approved by the President of the National Assembly." Is it necessary for the MP to beg the president of the National Assembly to address the MPs face-to-face from this pay phone? If you are so many Europeans, look at the European Parliament. Any member of parliament in the EU can speak from his post, but has the right to approach the speaker and speak from the pay phone. Here's the problem. You seem to be ashamed of our MPs. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the other persons approved by the President of the Assembly, and what are we MPs, are we other persons in this assembly? Article 95, the famous shortened procedure. The 2001 or 2002 Rules of Procedure provided that the MP could speak on average, according to the agenda, for 1.27 minutes. Now you're initiating some kind of a shortened procedure. How much can the MP now speak for one item of the agenda – 43 or 44 seconds? I'd like to see you, when you're an opposition, and surely after the first next election, how are you going to explain the law in 43 seconds or defend the amendment for two minutes, provided it's not 501? Or, which one of you who advocates European Serbia so much is allowed to say that the law is not adopted by a shortened procedure because it is not European, because it does not comply with our legislation with the European one? So any law will have to be governed by a shortened procedure or admit that your laws are not European. I'm still distracting you, with you have this majority, you'll bring this Rules of Procedure, just don't hope for too long that you will apply it and ask yourself a question – what will happen when the stakes are replaced? I'd be happy to watch you torture yourself and make sure you get a word in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42803	Seven minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The word has been given by MP Sreto Peric, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this can be called the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly until the moment of adoption. When you adopt this, when a minimum of 126 MPs are provided to vote for this, it is no longer that. I must remind you that when children play the marbles, they establish some rules that are incomparably more serious, more adequate and more responsible than you offer to the MPs to get rid of the way they behave. Maybe some of the laws we vote for here or don't vote for and don't directly refer to every MP, but we owe it, because of those on whose behalf and we sit here, that we have a serious relationship with them too. But this regulates exactly our behavior, the procedure we need to behave in this House. By reading in detail the proposal of this Rules of Procedure, I could only conclude that this is a large classroom of 250 students and one teacher or teacher who will establish all the rules and our conduct here, and not at all, as some MPs have said, that the institution of the opposition will develop. At the very first moment, reading this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, it seems that MPs are in a more favourable position. But it's one trick, and it's absolutely not true. We gave up all rights and obligations, i.e. you and the president of parliament yesterday, the day before and several previous days, and the opposition did not want to participate in the work, where luck if they had participated, this proposal might have been something more quality, but it will show in the debate whether there are good proposals for making a good Rules of Procedure. Based on the proposal offered, there is no theoretical chance that any amendments can be done and repaired here. You are proposing a reduction in the number of working bodies or committees from now on 30 to 18, and one special – 19. Are you perhaps painting the government's composition in such a relationship, that these ministries will exist analoguely to these committees? It's impossible to make such a composition of the government. This is one mix-up. They have committees that, although the draft Rules of Procedure state what their jurisdiction is, they will not be able to determine. You say he has the right to analyse and consider the committee. What it means to analyze and consider, if there's no way he can measure a decision, and you say you want to move your work into committees. None of what stands in this draft Rules of Procedure is correct and no new quality will be obtained. We will only have one rule that very badly and in an unquality way regulates the work of this Parliament. Maybe it'd be better done from case to case, maybe that would be a better variant than this situation. What, how and in what way? Of course, when I say this, I don't mean Mrs. Comic in any way. It is one of the best known parliamentary procedures in this House. How to protect MPs from those who are currently holding the presidency, he decides how long the discussion will take, and what will be spoken of, and when it is necessary to interrupt and whether anyone has the right to address it at all. When he said that the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee had been removed from the post for the purpose of abuse of that position, it was absolutely incorrect because it was well known why it was removed. Changed for telling the truth. He added, however, that bad practice is a very bad practice, if the opposition MP chaires the Defence and Security Committee. I remind you, in the previous session of this House, that committee was chaired by no one but today's interior minister and the first deputy prime minister. What kind of message are you sending to the Minister of Police and the Deputy Prime Minister, of course, how did he perform that function? It's absolutely incorrect. These rules have been established, they should have been respected, but your goal is not to give any right to the opposition and it is not at all a right, at least at any moment 124 MPs, because 126 need you to be able to cheer and dress, but rather the rights of Serbian citizens behind those 124 MPs. You deny their rights. How could Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic speak here today on behalf of the citizens of the Kings? I had the opportunity to go to that city in front of the SRS and make sure that the rights of citizens living there and their right to express their will in the elections were not reduced to a minimum, but absolutely abolished and that certain government conclusions or by the will of Minister Milan Markovic were abolished the rights of 18 SRS and others who had a total of 40. And you allow and you won't answer, and you won't apply the laws of this country to make people self-organize to go out into the streets. When I entered parliament, when I entered a building where the local self-government of the city of Kings was, I could see a lot of things, except for how it was regulated by the law of government in that city. Who's to blame? It is the DS, and among other things, by proposing such proposals for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. How and how would the MPs of the SRS this time, and tomorrow it might be another political party, ask the D.A. why it does not respond to numerous criminal charges related to the SRS president? When will this person come forward and what will our rights be to ask a question? Very often, I suppose this is not an accident, and among you there are MPs who have parliamentary experience, who are both good lawyers and skilled MPs, and certainly would have made a far better proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but rather this is a desire to turn the National Assembly into a law factory. The SRS disagrees because it is simply not possible. It is not only important for us to pass some laws, but also for what they mean for the citizens of Serbia. Article 95. The proposal, since I have to concentrate on one specific member who says - about the shortened procedure. And the MP can propose a shortened procedure in the following cases - a confirmation of an international contract. We can't make a classification like that. I can agree that there are international agreements that may not give too much attention, but that there are international agreements where we need to carefully analyse them and not perhaps conduct a discussion in a shortened process, but that they are discussed for a double duration than is usual. So when it comes to minor changes or additions to existing laws that do not significantly change material solutions. Did you think about the number of members or the number of provisions or in any other way about significantly minor changes? Sometimes a change in one regulation, or one member of a specific legislative proposal, can be so essential that in no case can we allow a shortened procedure to be conducted. The termination of the law or any other proposal that may be subject to a shortened procedure is inadmissible that it can be conducted in a double short time than usual, and it is restrictive anyway. Such a proposal by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly has never been in front of Serbian parliament lawmakers since Serbian citizens have the right to choose their representatives and make some decisions on their behalf. This parliament will no longer have full capacity, as you like to say, neither legislative nor control or any other function. Full control of this type of parliament, I am counting on the majority that supports the government, has the government, in no case does parliament have control over the government and therefore the SRS cannot seriously consider the proposal, let alone give support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42805	Nine minutes and 35 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word is made by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express my satisfaction that a quality act, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will exist very quickly in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Often by mistake and MPs, as well as by a section of the professional public, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly finds some kind of internal act. That's the kind of attitude I can't agree with. This is not an internal act of parliament, the Rules of Procedure is a source of constitutional law. It is a detailed and precise norm of the law-making procedure, therefore, the legislative function of parliament, the constitutional function of parliament and what is particularly important, and we have this in this text – the electoral and control function of the National Assembly. This Rules of Procedure has not been done, as we have heard in previous discussions, according to the individual parliamentary groups, it has not been done according to the size and taste of the ruling majority, it has been made and is based on the fact and on the constitutional norm that the National Assembly is the institution of constitutional and legislative authority and the highest representative body of citizens of Serbia. If we compare the text of the proposed Rules of Procedure with the solutions we have so far, we must conclude that we have an effective legal procedure, an effective procedure for government control, an effective procedure for the elections carried out by the National Assembly, and on the other hand, we have in one full sense the affirmation of the position of the MP through the legislative initiative, through the submission of amendments and especially through the work of the Committee. We have heard a lot of objections concerning the proposed provisions on procedures in the Committee's work. I express my satisfaction that the focus of work is largely transferred to parliamentary committees. It's a comparative practice. When we were doing the text of this proposal, we had comparative experiences of the parliaments of states that have a much longer and much more quality legal tradition and parliamentary tradition. The Rules of Procedure are semantically consistent. He's got good systems. We have in one place regulated in one chapter of procedures that we haven't had regularized before. I must say, by proposing this act, we have actually covered almost all the situations that have arisen or which may arise in fulfilling the functions of the National Assembly. So far, that wasn't the case. We had in some areas vacuum, inconsistencies, needs to interpret. I don't think there's any more of this, and we've covered these norms all the work, from the entry of the bill to its adoption, and we've elaborated in particular the work of the board. What's a special quality, in my opinion, is that I'm going to apostrophe, it's the Institute of Public Listening. It's, as we all know, something we've never had before. We may have, but we didn't have a norm in practice. I don't think there was one in this thing. The Institute of Public Listening is a democratic parliamentary institute that is very important when discussing what important phenomena and problems, therefore, not only something that needs to be regulated normably later, but also something that is very important in our society at some point. The Institute of Public Listening includes committees and MPs, but also includes the professional public, scientific and professional workers, the NGO sector and that is what we hope to celebrate very often in the coming period. The need to regulate certain situations is very important. So far, we haven't had regular situations when we gave prior consent to the AP Statute. The procedure for the adoption of the Assembly budget is implied by the Law on the National Assembly, that is, the fiscal independence of parliament. What is particularly important is the procedure for overseeing the work of state authorities, organisations and bodies. So we have a Rules of Procedure that will allow all MPs, and MPs sitting in the ranks of the position and sitting on the other side, to control the function, firstly towards the Government, implement and more effectively and consistently. There are no restrictions on any rights that so far existed in relation to the MPs. We have an excellent combination of efficiency and the rights of the MP. So, we have an act that in jurisprudence will exist, in the Serbian jurisprudence, and that will enable the National Assembly to effectively, not to be a law factory, as a colleague said, to pass in a quality way laws in a clearly standardised procedure of laws and other acts, but we will also have a parliament that has a prescribed procedure for controlling government's work, implementing regulations. What is particularly important, and what has not been regulated so far, is dealing with reports of independent regulatory bodies, bodies, organisations, etc. Finally, to say that democracy by its definition is not only the will of the people and the authority of the people, democracy is, among other things, procedure. Without procedure, there is no democracy. Without a clearly prescribed procedure, this was either a business or a constitutional institution, especially when it comes to a parliament which is the holder of a constitutional and legislative authority. We have carefully examined the amendments submitted to this act. In the day for the vote or before, we will have consultations, we will define which amendments we will accept, which we will vote for, and thus come to the best solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42807	Seven minutes of MP time was used. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42808	In psychotherapy, the process is often more important than the content of what is being said. In other words, what one says cannot be less important than how and under what circumstances something is spoken. Therefore, the way the work of the MPs is carried out is a kind of indicator of the general state of democracy in society and the state. If democracy is understood as a blatant dictatorship of a minority government personified in the image and part of a person in the role of the president of the state, then Winston Churchill is quite right about the finding "the most democratic is the worst form of the state, if we exclude everything else". Democracy should mean having a choice. The dictatorship means being put before a choice. The Serbian version at this point is to be put ahead of a false choice. Vladimir Goati, president of "Transparency of Serbia" says -- we currently have 250 MPs in parliament but a large majority of party delegates, who, as mailmen, share their party's opinion. If this is the case, the meetings of the Assembly are not necessary. Instead, the heads of the party could meet and as boards of directors, sort things out. It sounds too strict, but we've seen it several times, including today, that's true. Until the ruling majority, who this morning could not even secure a quorum for the start of a session on the points they themselves put on the agenda, until the majority of them decided closely and tensely on all issues necessary for the life of citizens cannot be talked about the developed or even the present parliamentary democracy. The Rules of Procedure can't be the instrument of an earlier ruling majority. In his morning presentation, Milos Aligrudic spoke about the famous newspaper of the National Assembly College, which was recently established by the Law on the National Assembly, and now introduced in a proposal for a new MP, stressing that it was still a courteous body. I'd add it's not exactly college music, but it can't be the Assembly in the Assembly, as much as you're trying to degrade parliament. The result of such a deniability is certainly a reduction of citizens' confidence in the very institution of parliament, which is seen very badly in the long term for any, not only of this one, but also for all the next set of authorities who want to have a sign of democracy. Parliaments in the new globalist constitution have a secondary position in many, especially in international affairs, and some compensations in terms of committees and groups arise instead. Parliament and parliamentaryism are today in some perilous state, according to one author, in the status of the world's best-paid male choir, explains Professor Vukin Vasovic of the Faculty of Political Sciences, adding that there are several reasons for deparating parliament as an organisation of government. The first of them is to strengthen the executive power of parliament. Parliament could, by definition, play a control and supervisory role when issues of MPs, a question of trust and interpretation would indeed have sufficient weight and then it would actually be a sign that people want a serious debate, not the atmosphere of a political fairground. What is also evident, colleagues said, that according to this Rules of Procedure, a number of proposals were made possible, all in the principle of nes-cafe - three in one. You don't need to talk about it further.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42809	People's MPs, the time available to your MPs' groups has been used. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, followed by MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42810	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, reading the reasons for the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, I would not say that there are some great ambitions. If it comes from Article 1, then from the opening provision, it is clear that this Rules of Procedure focused on the organisation of the work of the National Assembly, as well as on the exercise of the rights and duties of the People's Rules of Procedures. This is one of the angles of viewing the essence and significance of this Rules of Procedure for the National Assembly. However, if the importance of the National Assembly arises, in that case we could divide into three significant groups of issues related to this Rules of Procedure. The first group would include, in fact, procedural needs, so to arrange the way and organisation of the functioning of this National Assembly. The second group would include issues concerning relations with the government. Therefore, relations with the Government in this regard, whether one or more working assembly is wanted. For now, we have a debated assembly, and the Working Assembly is again linked to some of the objectives that have been expressed through individual solutions in this Rules of Procedure, which is among other things a reduction in the number of committees. The third group of issues concerns, in fact, the question of what this legislative body has to do with European integration, according to the so-called. European laws. So if we start with the first group of problems, in that case we could agree and actually find some consensus on these technical and procedural issues. There is no big difference compared to the current Rules of Procedure. Normally, the procedure has to be clear. Normally, it must be known how the National Assembly works. However, if it goes, in fact, from that fact whether this legislative body has the ambition to work, to work professionally, to pair with some professional work the dominant government, then there is a really big problem. Why? Because from these solutions offered in the Rules of Procedure, we don't really see that this topic has developed, that there really has been a way to solve the problem of position, of positioning parliament towards government. Why? Well, let's say in the Rules of Procedure, we were actually guided by the idea of reducing the number of committees and there's no problem. However, the reduction of the committee does not follow, in fact, some capacity in terms of gaining on expertise, on efficiency and, in fact, on the importance of Parliament's work through these committees. Why? Well, first of all, for the fact that, with a reduction in the number of committees, by putting a certain formal weight on the work of these committees, the practice of working on the tide hasn't changed, so we actually have a parallel of two ways of functioning this National Assembly, through the board and over the tide. As a matter of fact, neither one or the other gives the efficiency that should exist if we really think that Parliament has an overwhelming role to play in passing laws and monitoring how these laws are implemented and implemented. Therefore, it is obvious that we will not achieve at least the hint shown in the Rules of Procedure that the Working Assembly is reorientating itself to the debated assembly. The next group of questions are, in fact, how does the Assembly think it controls the government's work. This control function, which has existed in some way in the current Rules of Procedure, has not been changed in a more serious way. The parliamentary issues remained, there remained an interpretation, there remained a motion to vote on the government's mistrust. However, if we look at the interpretation, it is 45 days from the date of submission of the proposal for interpretation, up to the assembly debate, if we look at parliamentary issues, which come down to one month, if we look at current topics which are also one of the government's ways of controlling the work, and this topic can be discussed once in the month, the question is how will it all be current and how can the government really be controlled with these solutions of the Rules of Procedure. So, all in all, this Rules of Procedure really won't show any good solutions, it won't give good solutions either for making and controlling so-called. European laws, which are and how important for European integration. In the end, I could only conjecture and conclude that the Rules of Procedure, as proposed, did not have to be proposed, and in particular taking into account this special provision, which is, in fact, the biggest amendments that have been proposed, which are the number of committees scheduled for members from 46 to 67, their application is delayed to some new assembly meeting. Therefore, it was really unnecessary in this draft Rules of Procedure to look for such significant changes that would actually give an alibi for the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42811	The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42812	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the sake of the public, we are discussing today the draft Rules of Procedure. It is an act that has the power of the law and is as important as all the legal regulations adopted in this House, and for us, MPs, for our work, rights and duties is a small constitution that we must adhere to and respect. There is an impression in this debate that this Rules of Procedure applies exclusively to the work of MPs, but unless the MP defines a clear procedure and rules of conduct, it does not give enough freedom to Members to carry out their duties, it is the first step towards introducing chaos into the country and how it can affect the everyday life of Serbian citizens. In this House you have passed countless laws that are not applicable, some laws that only take effect in two or three years, and in certain situations and in this Rules of Procedure, and the work of the National Assembly is a real example of how democracy is stifled both in parliament and in Serbia. I really wonder what the purpose of this work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, because we have come into a situation that the government cannot house as many laws as some of your officials have said, a black hole can swallow here. You are again in a well-known manner, such a arrogant, forceless and unnecessarily consensual manner, which must exist when the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly is adopted, you have proposed these provisions, regardless of the consultations and proposals that came from opposition parties, and that is the first one to be a crucial mistake at the very beginning. The rules of procedure cannot be adopted without broad consensus and without participation and ruling parties and parties in the opposition. In this Rules of Procedure, there are indeed a bunch of pointless provisions that are difficult to count, and unfortunately there are provisions left behind without which no normal work and functioning of this Parliament can be imagined. So it is possible that the candidate for the National Assembly is not obliged to deliver written consent to accept the candidacy, so it is possible that in Article 27, which practically defines the position of president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 104 is prescribed. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, except that the Constitution has been abandoned in this Rule of Procedure and it is not the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to respect the provisions of the Constitution, but only the law and this Rules of Procedure. You've provided in article 86 for an extension of the debate after 1800 hours, as we're going to do today, but you've wiped out that provision, that the debate ends when this agenda ends, we'll already have those night vampire sessions that can last indefinitely until the early morning hours. You wrote in one provision at the beginning of the working day 84 MPs are required to attend. So far, it has been defined - a third of the MPs, but I find it interesting why you have not stated anywhere in the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure that 126 votes are needed to make a decision, but a majority of the total number of MPs. Or why you didn't predict that a mandatory quorum for the work of the Assembly would be those 84 MPs, not that in this shameful atmosphere, without a proposing representative, we were discussing the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one gave an answer as to why the MP was denied the right to single out the opinion board and explain it in parliament in those five minutes, as it has been practice so far. I think it's necessary that those people who disagree with the bill or have a different view of some amendments single out their opinion on the board and explain it clearly and clearly here. Why didn't you predict that voting day is an integral part of the session? I will remind you that on one occasion when a regular session was concluded, the debate was concluded, but no vote was held, but after that we joined a vote with some argument that was not clear to anyone. I would like to repeat the question also raised by my colleague Shami – why is there no limited time in which the proposer can perform in parliament? We are being brought, on the other hand, into an unequal position, because we are limited to two minutes, three minutes, five minutes, twenty minutes, and the promoter has all the time in this world and can really after our exposure say what he wants and how much he wants. I would be happy if there was at least one sentence in this Rules of Procedure in which the chairman was obliged to announce how many MPs voted for, how much against, and how many abstentions, because the practice showed that in that law-making run-off, the chairman just said - the vote was so much and no one was against it. We, as the DSS parliamentary group, were on several occasions against pointless laws, and resolutions and some of the acts adopted here, but the public couldn't hear it, but only if they were looking at those squares, so someone saw someone push in this room and a red button and have a different opinion than the ruling coalition. Why did the provision not enter that the bill, if proposed, of course, in accordance with the procedure envisaged, must come to the agenda at some point to discuss in this assembly? We have also submitted a series of legislative proposals as a parliamentary group of DSS that have always been removed from the agenda and will never come to the agenda. It is absolutely discrimination against the MPs, who have constitutional right, and Serbian citizens if they collect a number of signatures have the right to propose a certain legal solution, and I guess it is normal for this to be discussed in parliament, not in the media or with some arguments that absolutely no one can defend. The legislator and the committee are scheduled to consider amendments and propose amendments to the National Assembly which amends him to accept, which he refuses, but is not said when. We are now in a position to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Committee and to consider amendments. So we can get in a position to end the debate and then get a report from the government that accepts the amendments, which doesn't accept. It is even paradoxical in one member, which provides for a procedure for the government's election, not defined what happens if the government is not elected to parliament on that day. I think that's enough argument as to how unseriously this Rules of Procedure has been made. I've heard arguments from a representative of the ruling coalition, a bunch of empty words trying to justify such a procedure, and the word "excess" only means the lack of meaning that appeared today in this House. What's scariest, the ruling coalition acts as if this building, this hall, these people of your property, is that you have a deed to everything that's done in this House, but it's fortunate that the maximum limit, as long as it can last, is four years, if some geniuses who have done this Rules of Procedure, and who are called seriously policy in this country, do not think of ending one day's choice in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42813	Seven minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42814	I will continue with the remarks that I have on my rules of procedure, which was very well characterized by my colleague from DS Ratkovic, as an affirmation of MPs, through the submission of the bill, through the submission of amendments and through the work of the committee. That sounds very nice, but there's no concrete evidence for that. How is this an affirmation of MPs reached through this Rules of Procedure, if we do not have two years of work to consider a single proposal for MPs, and there were still others on the site in the part where they are called acts in the procedure? How can you say that we have the affirmation of MPs through the submission of the proposal, if only the government's proposals or the ruling majority have been considered so far? Can MPs only be called the ruling majority MPs or that attribute that stands in the belief that you are elected MPs only apply to that paper, and is not valid at the time when you are required to propose a law? You're saying we have an affirmation through the submission of the amendment. Does that mean we still don't have a ban on the amendments being filed, so we have to see it as an affirmation? You know how that sounds through the Rules of Procedure we're discussing? Where an MP is to submit an amendment, that shall be treated. 162,163, 164. etc., but it is very interesting this Article 162 where it is said - the amendment submitted by the MP should contain an appropriate member as a legal basis, that it contains the name and proposal of the law, which is the undeniable, solution proposed, an explanation which contains an explanation of the proposed solution and, if necessary, between two commas, listen now to this, an assessment of the impact of the proposed solution on the budget. Now tell me what data is available to citizens, especially MPs, through reliable and technical means in this House or in this country, so that they can give a reliable assessment of the impact of the proposed solution on budgets? So, from the MPs who hear on Friday night on television that the new rules of procedure are in motion and that Tuesday's session is scheduled, so if they're lucky to have a home printer who works solidly, they could buy a Kertridge for him, so that they can print out this proposal or they should come to Belgrade, if they don't live in it, and raise that bill, and then within that short time period of time called - Saturday and Sunday, provided they don't have any other obligations, make a bill, because it's the usual practice to have the most 148 hours and to make this impact assessment of the proposed solution to the budget. This applies to MPs when they submit an amendment. So much for that appointment of MPs. When the government submits a bill, it is treated as Article 151 because it is not the most common, but is almost exclusively the subject of the bill being discussed and adopted here, it is obliged to state in the explanation the constitutional basis, the reasons for the adoption of the rules, the explanation of basic legal institutes, the assessment of financial resources, which usually comes down to one single sentence – should or should never be, ever – not really some limit of the funds to be provided. And then it says in point 2. indent 3) the argument may, therefore, for the Government the argument may also contain an analysis of the effects of the regulations, what costs the application of these regulations will have on citizens and other interested persons. I ask you as a proposer and ask the citizens of Serbia what is this measure of reciprocity of the Government, which has its own technique, equipment, data, the Statistical Office, which sends its employees to training, seminars, travels, various supplementary seminars for education and obtaining diplomas, has chambers, associations, various advices, paid commissions that need to make an assessment of the effects of the situation, even though, for example, when adopting the Law on the Budget System, we asked that the Government be obliged to provide us with what it means for citizens when a law is adopted, you write in this latest Rules of Procedure that the Government can explain these effects of the regulations? Do you really need to shorten the time for the debate, which you have provided for in a brief procedure, under which everything can be led, precisely so that citizens do not hear the effects of the regulations, laws and other acts that we bring here? Yes, it's the only way I can understand the restrictions, which is not the affirmation of MPs and parliamentarianism, but rather, when you have less time in which you can explain how the laws will work on the citizens of Serbia and this is how it works. In the amendment, you're asking us to tell you what the effects of the regulations are, so, for example, When we're discussing the budget, we can't even bring up an amendment where we don't exactly work out a whole budget account in which someone is taken to give someone, and you can't even handle these many regulations, which you put together 13-14 points together, and you want the debate to be cut to half, you say the government isn't obliged, but it can do that analysis. As far as the rules of procedure are concerned, how many affirmations of MPs and parliamentarianism are being spoken in general and Article 207 which treats government control, then Article 209, where we have parliamentary issues concerning the topic of the current one. To remind the citizens what it looked like in practice. Article 207 speaks of the government's relationship with the minister who provides answers to the questions raised before, and also to this Rules of Procedure, left behind as an opportunity to exercise control over the government. The MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum of three minutes on the answer, and when he receives an additional answer, for example, he has the right to make a two-minute statement of his answer. As it happened at one point, to one of these questions, which was supposed to mean the implementation of the government's control and control institute, to my question as Serbian Progressive Party MPs, Mr Djelic was silent, had no answer. The present Mrs Comic, who currently holds the presidency, was interpreted by a member of the Rules of Procedure, so I have no right to explain the importance of the questions I am asking, which is the direct devising of the MPs' institute. So, out of three, plus three, plus two minutes, which is your time as a stopwatch, where you're asking a question that's vital to someone's life, and then it was about the rights of the "Cola Coke" employees who were left in court without the means to live, the workers who lived in Kosovo, and came here to Belgrade, bought in the meantime from Zemun, where in the court proceedings they were damaged, I say, to me or any MP, no, says Article 207 is clear. Not only was the Rules of Procedure restrictive, but he was in use disenfranchised in the basic institutes and affairs this parliament has. This time I managed to add attitude 2, so to see if you would be able to refuse it, where I asked that if the Government, or the Minister, does not use the right to answer the question, then the MP has the right to point out the importance of a matter of no more than five minutes. So, by not increasing the right of the MPs to comment or ask an additional question, I will see whether you are to affirm the MPs through the control role of the government's work, or whether by refusing such an amendment and through the silence of the minister, i.e. the government as its representative, you are in fact devising what you have given here as a promised right to control the government. As far as this imagination of devising the control function of this Parliament is going, it can be seen in Article 213, which discusses parliamentary issues concerning the current topic. For example, the parliamentary group had the right to run for a particular topic in that last Thursday, when questions are asked and a session with such a topic is scheduled, but Article 213 of this proposal gave the right to ask questions to the competent minister, as we all have the right as MPs, according to the application order. What's this about? What one of his colleagues commented that those three independent MPs should run to a pay phone, to the chairman and to apply, to vote for the right to speak one of the three, this way of applying is also controversial and unthinking the applicant of the proposal that would have had to have the advantage of asking the first question, and then the usual rules and the following application procedures should be applied, where they always go from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group, which has the right to ask questions alternately, as we have used so far. Furthermore, this affirmation of the Rules of Procedure and MPs through the Rules of Procedure goes to the point that it is now foreseen, by this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, if the parliamentary group in its order not to be declared for or against the discussion, its registered MPs will speak eventually. Imagine the details of this process called democracy, meaning whether someone circled for or against, that it becomes so important, that someone would talk in the end. The apostle has no right to address from a pay phone in the house which is his and the house of the people, how nice Mrs. Komic is to tell the guests – this is your house, when guests come to us, but it is not the house of us sitting here and we are chosen to sit here. We are some other persons and the right to turn from that pay phone to have presidents and prime ministers, where you are trying to establish a line of separation between authorities and parliament, trenches that are insurmountable. Is it the spirit of tolerance, is it the spirit of all of us who are representatives of the citizens of this Serbia, regardless of who is what political commitment and who is at this time the power or opposition? No, it's just saying that in this country, the rights to something must be seen, not as real rights, but if it declares that someone has a right to something, the right of citizens to take it as real. It's the right to return property, the right to free action, the right of MPs to speak, the right to propose, but whether his law will be able to enter the procedure, that's what we had a chance to see. How much time there is to speak and explain its proposals, we see in the proposal to introduce a shortened procedure, where it is most important to measure time and to have such precision that it does not accidentally express any word of criticism at the expense of the Government, which so successfully rules, but through its ruling majority, it looks to make all these praises impossible on its account. The extent to which this discrimination is going is also a list of permanent delegations, which I have made a comment on, is being decided by the president of the Assembly, and on the basis of consultations with the presidents of the parliamentary groups. The president of the assembly, as the first among the equal, cannot decide instead of the president of the parliamentary group on the composition of permanent delegations and only three are listed, while the other permanent delegations are not listed, but are said to be -- and other delegations formed. You just said the importance of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, it is, it's not just an act of our inner order and behavior. Can we allow ourselves to have all those international delegations where we are permanent members become more important and some less significant, which can open up space and open space for a different approach in terms of the presence and participation of people in the work of these delegations, and where we advocate representative democracy, because not only do we have an obligation to make laws, to exercise control over the work of the Government and of all other bodies, but also to deal with this representative democracy, working together in these international bodies, equally important to everyone. Not to be critical, it is really worth the praise in this Rules of Procedure of how the Institute of Control of the Regulatory Bodies of Other State Authorities has been resolved. Let me remind you, when we passed a law on the body that deals with the protection of competition, you failed to adopt the amendment when and within what deadlines those authorities, or those bodies, are obliged to inform us that someone's mandate has expired and what it is now worth to choose, appoint and control, and we don't have that previous step through the law that is bad, and we let bad go. So, one good part of the Rules of Procedure that now allows us to consider reports of the regulatory bodies in the tide, to praise someone who works well, that someone who works badly, based on these reports, change and propose punishment, which is the only way to make bills for citizens, has one bad step in some of the laws that we've adopted because of short deadlines and this kind of bad procedure as bad. I'd like you to see that when we talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42815	17 minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The People's MP Ljubisa Petkovic has the word, and after that, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, the SRS had major and serious objections to the current Rules of Procedure and was confident that the new Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly would be in the role of Members of Parliament and the exercise of the right of MP to represent the interests of citizens. Unfortunately, any new Rules of Procedure that adopts the parliamentary majority are increasingly restrictive than the previous one, so that it can soon be expected for MPs to be removed from the right to give their opinion, i.e. the position of the parliamentary group and bring down to a living robot whose only function will be to vote for or against. Very often you said that Milosevic's regime was non-democratic, and I would remind you that in this non-democracy regime, there was no limited time for MPs to turn to the citizens and represent their interests. I would remind you that in this non-democracy regime, MP Milan Paroški spoke without interruption for more than two hours at a time, and today, in an allegedly democratic society, you are limiting the presentations to the MPs for just two minutes. The SRS parliamentary group expected the new rules of procedure to correct at least some of the bad solutions that you had just passed on in the next period. There's a lot of bad solutions. I would only stick to Article 28(2), which reads: "The President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, that is to say, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 1800 hours, if there are legitimate reasons why the President of the National Assembly declares to the MPs." Only in the second Article 87, there are at least three serious objections. First, the president of the National Assembly has been given too much authority to hold a session of the National Assembly, where sessions are said to be held for other days, not to specify whether this applies to working days and national holidays. Another serious remark is that the President of the National Assembly can extend the work even after 6:00 p.m., not knowing how many hours or when work will take place during that day, so we ask ourselves whether this means that we will have night marathon sessions in peacetime conditions and that there is no serious reason to do so? I will also state the third example in which it is said that the president of the National Assembly on the extension of work after 1800 hours tells the MPs instead of standing – explains the justification for the extension of the work of the National Assembly. The most serious remarks of the new Rules of Procedure are that you have kept the old rule that for the session to begin, it is enough that 84 MPs are present in the hall, instead of 126, which makes up most of the total number of MPs. The next serious remark is that the new rules of procedure have not been repealed to set a voting day for the adoption of the proposed laws and other acts. In line with this, I would like to say that the most normal thing to do is to approach the vote immediately after the debate in principle and in particular. Both in the past and in future practice, the MPs on the proposed amendments and the laws will vote after a month, that is, when everything is out of their minds. If at least this provision had been changed in the rules of procedure, there would always be at least 150 MPs in the hall, which would have partly restored citizens' trust. The SRS MP group expected that the creator of the new Rules of Procedure would at least extend the time to explain the amendments to five minutes, as well as allow the new rules of procedure to allow, apart from the heads of parliament, to ask parliamentary questions at each session of the National Assembly, not as before, only on Tuesdays and Thursdays. My colleagues will make other remarks, but I would like to refer again to Article 99, which says, "In the brief procedure, the total time of the debate in the general search is 50% of the time set for speakers in Articles 96 and 97 of this Rules of Procedure". In accordance with this Article, opposition parties are further deprived of the right to debate. Unlike MPs, this rule does not apply to both the president and the members of the government. I'm taking the opportunity to ask a question about article 99. I am interested in how he will be applicable to the Prime Minister and to the members of the Government if Article 96(6) states that the Prime Minister and the members of the Government get a word when they are asked for and do not refer to a restriction on the duration of the exposure? Please give me an answer. What's 50% of the time limitless?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42817	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, followed by the MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42818	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have heard several very interesting exhibitions here when it comes to the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We also had certain historical reminders, but also certain discussions, the entire political essays of what the National Assembly is today and what the National Assembly represented throughout Serbia's history. If we look at the National Assembly as an altar of democracy, and we here as a mirror of the electoral will of the citizens of this country and as a result of this expressed free will in free and democratic elections, and if we remember that the first Law on the National Assembly of the then Principality was brought to us on 28 October 1958, we will see what went through history. One of my colleagues quoted Slobodan Jovanovic and his thoughts and his thoughts on the position of parliament, as saying of this law, as saying of the ruling majority, about the position of the opposition in parliament. I'll point to the next thing. We have well studied the works of Slobodan Jovanovic and other famous people in this country, but when we quote such a distant historical past, let's quote what was three years ago. The second time I'm an MP in the RS Assembly, and here I am for the third year here. I remember those previous MPs and I remember the first debate in the National Assembly when I entered the Assembly. In order to refresh some of my colleagues' memory, especially those who claim to restrict the right to discussion, the right to say, to restrict the right to criticism, I will read only a few statements that we had the opportunity to hear in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia just three years ago and just two years ago, when the second Rules of Procedure was on the agenda. One of my colleagues, I won't quote his name and name, reporting the consequences of the weather in his neighborhood, on the day we discussed a set of economic laws, claimed that the storm had taken his roof, that the rain had damaged his crops, that his gutters wouldn't miss enough water, that his car wasn't working well that winter. Another MP told us about how people should dress when they walk on ice and how they should walk on ice, and we listened to it for 17 minutes, at a time when the discussion was unlimited and everyone could talk about the topic on the agenda the way he wanted to. I don't think there's any need to quote that there's no need, Mr. Markovic, that's what the citizens of Serbia remember very well, and they've valued very well in these elections, as they will value us in the next elections. What's important to mention? Here we had the opportunity to hear criticism about the work of the President of the Assembly and of the people who chair the congregation or lead the meetings of the congregation. It is interesting for people to think about the mandates of MPs, how they think when they sit in the republican parliament, and how they think differently when they sit in local congregations. Here they defend the right of MPs to have their mandate, and when they are in the local congregation and when their interest is at stake, the right is disputed. Here they attack when the assembly is chaired very well by anyone from power and criticise the party whose president or chairman is at the head of that day in the Serbian Parliament, but they don't mind forming local authority with these same ideas in other cities, not to quote Cačak or Kraljevo, who has been quoted so much today. We have a situation here today to respect that this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly is a state-of-the-art, unprofessionally done, hasty, with a desire to limit someone. When DS participates in some programming documents, acts, when people who are with us in the coalition do so, we bring these laws and acts so deeply to the fact that they will apply to us both when we are in power and when we are in opposition. And we start from the situation that in 2000 we have fought that the government is a variable category and that this variable category called the government will change in the free democratic elections and that, without fear, we may sometimes be in opposition, so when we are in opposition, we have no problem having the provisions of this Rules of Procedure refer to us as an opposition political party, we want to build from this institution called Parliament and the National Assembly of RS that enjoys the confidence of citizens. True, the fact is that Parliament enjoys the least support, the least trust when it comes to public opinion and public opinion measurement and when it comes to support that citizens express to institutions, but it is up to us to strengthen this institution, to restore citizens' trust in an institution called the National Assembly. What's sitting here, my colleagues, you, we're the mirror... (Milica Vojić Markovic, from the place: Who? I don't see anyone.) You may not see well, ma'am. These people sitting here, they mirror the electoral will of Serbian citizens. Every time someone calls for a word, whether it's the government, whether it's the opposition, they need to know that he not only won his constituents and determined his electoral body, but represented an institution that we all work together and called the National Assembly. And that this institution represents not only the local public, voters and citizens, but also some people here who are diplomatic representatives of the National Assembly's session and bring their own judgment on Serbia based on our behaviour here. I ask you to bear in mind every time you address your colleagues, when you throw or not, that you have in mind the fact that you do not only win your voters, your sympathisers, your members, that you do not only determine your electoral body, that you also speak to those citizens who did not vote for you, but that you also address those who see the circumstances of the National Assembly sessions and do not participate at all in the elections in this country, but also how, on the basis of the work of Parliament, they judge this country. Also, I would like to point out that when you are calling for historical facts that you represent these historical facts precisely and explicitly to the citizens of Serbia, because calling for historical facts, so arbitraryly, as someone responds first and foremost creates an ugly picture of Serbia's parliamentary past. On the other hand, future generations are raised on the wrong facts. What's most important, the twisting of historical facts is one dangerous precedent, because what's left behind needs to be interpreted in the way that it really happened. Finally, I would like to point out maybe in 50 years someone will also take the stenograms from this session of the Assembly and from some previous sessions of the assembly and therefore analyse a certain historical period in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42819	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda is an extremely important act, a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and one of the regulations that we need to round up the rules regarding the work of the National Assembly. One of the predecessors said democracy implies procedure. The Rules of Procedure are obligations under the Law on the National Assembly, and the Constitution adopted in 2006 stipulates that the Assembly has a law that regulates its work. The ruling majority and most who pass any regulation, including this one, express their relationship with the questions that these regulations define. When you pass the Law on the National Assembly you say how you see that the Assembly should look. When you bring the Rules of Procedure, you tell those members how you see that the Assembly should look, how the Assembly should develop. It's a well-known thing that every society has written and unwritten norms. Unwritten norms are common and moral, norms written are laws. Until normal norms have, as a rule, a sanction for its non-execution, if you don't tell the man you know on the street good day, only the one you met will have a bad opinion of you, but you don't suffer any sanctions. The laws should be clear. The laws must define what happens if some regulation is not respected and what happens if some norm is not respected. This is the essence of democratic societies, that norms must be clear, that there is minimal or no room for their ambiguous interpretation and that there must be clear sanctions and there must be clear respect for deadlines. In organised democratic systems, it cannot be irrelevant whether a norm is respected or not. My colleagues may have missed it, but today we prove that we are breaking the Law on the National Assembly. Article 73. The Law on the National Assembly prescribes a 120 - day period for the Rules of Procedure to be adopted. That deadline expired at the end of last month. The development of democracy implies respect for any norm, and it can't be irrelevant why this regulation wasn't passed a month ago, and that's democracy. On the other hand, what was the key drawback of our Rules of Procedure is that many norms were ambiguous and could be interpreted in different ways. The main controversy here was whether the opposition or the position of one norm read in one way or another. Now the main question is whether or not we have removed this inadequacy from our rules of procedure, and another thing in which we experience democracy. That's exactly the difference between individual parties. Does democracy mean only possibility or democracy implies a guaranteed right, in this case, minorities? If every decision in the National Assembly is taken exclusively by voting and by majority vote, then any potential possibility is, in fact, the goodwill of the ruling majority. These are the fundamental differences in the understanding of democracy between the party I represent, the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the parties behind such an MP. There are many opportunities here for all MPs and, of course, the Rules of Procedure cannot distinguish the opposition from the position, but there is hardly any norm guaranteed to be respected. Each norm is voted upon and that will then be the will of the ruling majority in any particular case. The MP has the right to pass the law, the law never has to come to the agenda. We have the opportunity to ask parliamentary questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays. I asked the President of Parliament a few months ago - how many questions did we get answers to? You answered me - about 50%. So let's make it 50 and something. But every other question is answered only by MPs. There's no sanction for the government why it doesn't answer those questions. Are we in these rules of procedure, and does the motion for such an MP remove doubt and help the congregation to work? Here are a few specific examples. Article 23. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the quorum is practically reduced. We have a number of members of that committee, but if they don't choose, the quorum that that committee has will be reduced. Article 24 provides for the way in which the committee presidents are elected. There is no proportionate division and there is no guarantee that the opposition can, or that minority, get any place at the head of any committee, unless it's the ruling majority's wish. Article 28 provides for an annual programme of Parliament's work. That program is closely linked to the government's program. I think the Assembly should control the government, not vice versa. Of course, the dynamics of passing laws or proposing laws must be taken into account by the government, but the Assembly is autonomous and should not be completely dependent on the government. Article 34 defines the college. But the college is defined by only one member and has no binding decision-making form. Article 86 provides for the possibility of holding sessions. He says the session is scheduled within seven days, but if there are necessary conditions, it can be scheduled within a short period of time. In doing so, no minimum shorter deadline has been defined anywhere. It could be an hour before the session is scheduled, because nowhere has it been defined to be one day or two days. Article 95 opens up an opportunity to shorten the time of the debate. Any MP can predict a shortened time of debate. We've already cut that time, because our record is 45 laws that we discussed at one time. Article 96 absolutely excludes the possibility of anyone other than the Government to be a legislator. I'm sorry, but in this assembly the laws can be proposed by the National Bank, as well as by the Trustee, or the Citizens' Protector. And they're authorized promoters under the Constitution. They're not mentioned anywhere in this law. The assembly budget, the secretary-general, and now the Assembly will have its budget on a proposal from the secretary-general. The law on the budgetary system has for several years provided for the obligation that the Assembly has internal budget control. We still don't have it and there's no sanction for it. Now the big shift will be that we have a congregation budget, and we don't have someone to control it. And there's as many norms as you want. Therefore, this law certainly does not take a step forward. This law leaves the possibility of arbitrarily interpreting every norm, opening up the possibility that conflicts on the most banal things remain and certainly does not help either the development of democracy or the development of co-operation in this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42821	Mrs. Gordana Comic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42822	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens who may be monitoring the transmission of this session may be made to think that the debate on the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure is something that is our internal matter, something that we ourselves need to have fun with in order to regulate our mutual relations. Fortunately, this is not my contribution to the debate in principle, except for my proposal to support the amendments I have submitted, it is precisely in comparison to what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly means for our society and for other parts of the country, regardless of whether it is executive power, judicial authority or independent bodies. I might make it too rough, but in order to be picturesque, one comparison. The constitution of one state is something we all need to understand and is best when it is a full expression of social will. I am very opposed to all those who say that the Constitution should only be understood by lawyers, that it is an act that experts understand. If the Constitution doesn't understand all members of society, then our rights in that Constitution are written down, then it's not good. Another act that also implies the engagement of the largest number of members of society is Family Law. It's the only law that applies to all the members of society and the values that we write down in Family Law is something that we all need to understand. What's the Rules of Procedure? The Rules of Procedure regulates procedures in which all three branches of government will exist and that is why it is important, and therefore it is not only about our relations within the National Assembly, the relationship between the opposition and the ruling majority or relations between political parties. Every society that changes, every society that, like Serbia, participates in European integration processes, has the greatest shortage in its lack of procedures. The Rules of Procedure that we are to bring together, regardless of which one of us will vote in favour, and who is against the Rules of Procedure, can achieve his best role if we understand how important the procedures are. To set an example. You want to take out a travel document in one of the towns and municipalities in Serbia and somewhere you have difficulty, such as feeling that you are not treated as an equal citizen from another city, but you do not know the procedure to exercise your right. You're a family who enters a home of health to give birth, they don't treat you right. You don't know how to exercise your right because there are no procedures. You're either employed or employed somewhere where you're obviously being violated by your employment rights or as an employee. You don't know how to exercise your right because there are no procedures. The weakness in achieving our rights is that we still have weak institutions, including the one we build together, and the opposition and the ruling majority, but the beginning of this weakness is that the laws we make are not applied well enough or applied selectively is that we do not know the procedures that we exercise our rights. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should define exactly that. Several of the main parts of the Rules of Procedure which are before us implies what I consider to be positive in the Rules of Procedure's proposal, which are different types of procedures and detailed procedures concerning how the law is passed, both the relations within the working bodies of the Assembly and the most important part of the work of the National Assembly, which is the control of the executive bodies of the authorities. I would tell anyone who is currently an opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia -- if I were you, I would watch how much effort, honest, is being invested by the ruling majority, deeply believing that we share together the need of the Assembly, in controlling the executive power. And I would understand, if I were you, that every sentence in which the ruling majority is equated and the executive power goes to total damage. I do not have much hope that my sentence will be understood – that I am in your place, but I have an obligation to share it with you. For the end, the amendment I submitted was of course technical. The idea I had didn't get most of what the ruling majority was. My idea of work, of the procedures of this Rules of Procedure, was that the debate in particular, that amendments had nothing to do with the tide, that it was supposed to be the work of the assembly committees, and I stayed in the minority. It's not the first time I've ever been in a minority with one idea, and it's not the first time I've given up on an idea that I'm currently in the minority, because I don't think anything can stop the idea of what time it is, the time will come for us to do the amendments together with the debates in detail on committees. So my amendment is of a technical nature. In Article 216, I am absolutely sure of an accidental technical error, the number of previous members relating to the text of the proposal to Articles 101 and 102 should be incorrectly mentioned. My proposal is for opposition representatives to vote in favour of the amendment, and that is some beginning, I hope for a future better work and for the construction of this institution, whoever is the opposition and whoever is in the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42823	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42824	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am speaking to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, also as president of the Assembly and as a member of the SPS, and I will tell you why. Because the renewal of multi-party in Serbia in 1990, after 50 years of one-party rule, has brought some changes in our society and Slobodan Unkovic, who was then elected the first president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, later Aleksandar Bakocevic, later also your colleagues from the SPS, Mr. Lilic, Mr. Tomic and so on, when we look from this time distance, are the real representatives of democracy in one society. If you see what the rules of the Rules of Procedure were then and what you suggest to us today, on July 13, 2010, then not that we went one step backwards but we went back to who knows which positions, but not the parliamentary democracy in Serbia, because it, it will, it will agree with me here, and between the two world wars it was a real example and a mirror how one representative body should function. Democracy in one society can exist and only exists when it authentically expresses the people's will, the will of the citizens. The people have passed part of sovereignty on to us people's representatives, and we have to act accordingly. When does she choke and stop? Well, here it is today, July 13th. Because when we political opponents, the Brussels administration, the EU, when we are here representatives of a policy that is extremely anti-globalistic, and today is one of the largest anti-globalists in the world, the ideologist of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, has shown that this is indeed the only path that is right, and not only he, but many other countries are coming to our positions. See how the Greek MPs perform in the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. Political lenders and those associated with various lobbies, which, by mass, destroy countries that are preceding democracy and civilizations, such as Greece. We are coming into a situation that, following the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, we are improving the democratic process in Serbia. When did the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia become interested in the citizens of Serbia? Well, you will only agree with me, and not to be pretentious, but indeed, that is now history, when it came to its bench as the only elected MP, Professor Vojislav Seselj, president of our party. So he introduced the spirit of democracy into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We can't go out for a pay phone anymore. We can no longer talk about those topics that are happening today. We play democratic processes in the highest legislative body, and we are now not only someone who is the mere perpetrator of what is before us and puts the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but through these proposals and the names of the committee and the session by a shortened procedure. You can feel free, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to think that Stefan or Stefan, as they already call him, Phila, where this traitor, Šojić, will, for the other day, be on the couches in Brussels, that he is your supervisor and our supervisor, because we are passing laws according to emergency procedures and procedures, if translated, so that they comply with EU laws. What the EU is doing to Serbia, while you are introducing a committee that monitors these integrations and while you are pushing for faster adoption of such laws. Those who showed the European Parliament's resolution a few days ago, a resolution by the Council of Europe a month ago, are in a hurry to force the other five EU members to recognise the Shiptar formation in the territory of Serbia's sovereign country. Now these pressures are going on in a similar model as they were 20 years ago, which we warned, primarily our president, but now in a more insidious way. They say, you treat this as an area of the Western Balkans, and we need to remind the citizens of Serbia that here, in the National Assembly a month ago, a law that treats Serbia as the Western Balkans, and then try, will be further conditions for Serbia, that we are not going to recognise these Cypriot terrorist formations they call the state, but rather allow for their regional participation, etc., renewal, talks and dialogue, but without the status established by the Constitution of our country. I must remind Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic that in 2004, because the then Rules of Procedure made it possible, which was also more restrictive than that of Slobodan Milosevic, after the Serbian people, the National Assembly found out, and thus the entire public, when Ljubomir Kragovic came out for the assembly speaker. What did Predrag Markovic say to him then? Don't disturb, Mr. Kragovic, the public. It was March 17th, 2004. Of course, the session was immediately interrupted after that and we found out that it was preparing a new pogrom over our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and unfortunately it happened, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, too, was the place when it came out for the pay phone, while the services were engaged in the hijacking of the SRS jeep, or theft, which was not returned to us until today, at the presidency building, when the president of our party came out and said that police and gendarme troops were around the villa on the Dedinj, where you were inside, to arrest and kidnap Slobodan Milosevic, to take him to The Hague, and later to kill him. Where are we going to alarm the public now? Where, at a time when such a devastating thing is happening for Serbia, we will say this, how can we, as elected national representatives, participate equally in the work. How can we accept and nominate, to which Mrs. Komic and your other colleagues invite us, such a Rulesman who introduces something that the Constitution does not know. Where you saw in the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen MPs, that there was a deputy MP. There isn't even a member's deputy. You wanted a bill on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you cared about our colleagues or other situations, to introduce a deputy MP. What did you do to this stimulant? When we do a full analysis of these 20 years, there's been everything, and some people in shoes and shirts are going in like 1995 into the Assembly to beat up the MPs, and to throw us out after the DOS comes to power, that one who's now pretending to be something very smart and very nice, and in fact is a man with no morals, the one who invents, who slanders and most demonstrative lies against our president, is the only MP who ripped up the assembly bench, the witnesses are colleagues here. Not only did he break the inventory, he hit the man, he cursed you in the microphone and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, etc. Now it's all to be forgotten and to say, uh, those new ones who steal the mandates of the SRS are an alternative. We're going to bring a Rules of Procedure that will legalize everything we nominate, which comes to us from the government and from the Brussels administration. Then I ask the question, how did you not allow us as the largest parliamentary group to suggest to you what some committee would look like? Why didn't the Committee on European Integrations, when they work for the Cypriot separatists and destroy our country, why didn't you start it, you didn't think about it, the Committee on Combating Globalism, the Anti-Globalist Committee? Are you asking which MPs would like to participate? Here, they don't want any colleagues from the DS. We Serbian radicals will. Remember, in the Serbian electoral body, you have at least 40% of those who are unspecified, 20% of those who make a clear and loud statement that they are against all that is being done today to Serbia. What is the biggest failure, among other things, is an absolute violation of the Constitution in Article 198. We have discussed this with Mr. Konstantinovic, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, yes, with many others, and have come to the fact that the constitution is suspended when you say that an authorised party representative, on whose list is elected, cannot resign when this party is entrusted with the mandate. One more thing, your obligation, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, was to warn you that Radeta's colleague, to enable us, as well as this new Rules of Procedure, which deprives us of this, to urgently invite Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac to come to the meeting of the board of directors and to respond to our questions and criminal statements which we have filed against these traitors, who, by such a media heifer and a haranga against our president, are trying to score points, the citizens have seen them through, and that will prove them in the elections, even though you gave them the mandates you stole from us by Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42825	National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42826	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency of the Assembly, this Rules of Procedure, which is the subject of our today's discussion and debate, has 297 members. Serbia's constitution has 202 members, and this rules of procedure have close to a thousand views. Serbia's constitution has almost twice as much. So two documents that don't have to have direct connections, although they have indirect ones anyway, where one is extensive, full of some standardization of detail, and one is legal rational. This is due to a situation that the Serbian Constitution has been adopted on the basis of a national consensus, and that the rules of procedure have been tabled on the basis of violence by the assembly majority over the minority. In fact, if a method of consensus had been followed and a working group had been created which would have reached the Rules of Procedure unanimously, since it was the rules of procedure of the Assembly that apply to all of us, this Rules of Procedure could have been two-thirds shorter. He would not have to go into such meaningless details and norms, which is, in fact, due to the lack of legitimacy, the real democratic legitimacy of a joint work at the beginning of a process, after which the majority and minorities are extremely legitimate. I'm afraid that's not the case here. We have a very extensive Rules of Procedure that is hard to read, with many excess provisions. Just look at three members, nine or ten views dedicated to how the MP operates with identification cards. It's like it's about younger minors, not MPs. I'm asking you to read those provisions again, those superfluous things. These excess provisions are very much because there is no basis consensus in this assembly around this Rules of Procedure. As a result, the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand, intends to define in detail every element of this assembly’s life, and on the other hand, has secured control mechanisms for decision-making in the permanent advantages of the congregation’s majority, which can always make a decision and revote the minority. On the other hand, in the control function of the Chairman, i.e. The president and vice-president of the Assembly, who can always take away the word, even give, to decide on the right to the replica, as said by the relevant member who guarantees the replica in two positions, and in the third, subtracts that right, where he says these things are explicitly determined by the President of the Assembly. Such provisions where rights are given and taken are plenty. I've only set one example. Since time is running, I will only list one more thing that is important to this Rules of Procedure, if I am allowed another 25 seconds. So it's about Article 59, the provisions on the KIM Committee. These are the poorest provisions when asked what committees should do. He has only two members, and these two members concern matters that this congregation has not done during these two years. Therefore, the proposed legislative acts, laws and other general acts around KIM and the proposed resolutions. The Assembly has never done this before, and KIM is a topic where there can be day-to-day action or at least on the weekly level of the Assembly. It's one of the members of the board that's totally squirming, and it's best if he's been abandoned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42827	MP Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I will point to a few of the remarks the SRS has on the proposal of this Rules of Procedure, we believe that all are essential. I'll start with the first remark concerning the establishment of a committee of the National Assembly, where you predicted that we also have deputies in addition to members. At first glance nothing significant, nothing spectacular. But is that all? The SRS is in principle against the introduction of deputy members in the Assembly committees. Why? By introducing the deputy members, it seems that you actually want to do something at all costs, not caring about the political will or the political attitude of your political indifferences. You target the number of laws passed. Your goal is statistics, not the essence of what the Assembly Committee should do within its jurisdiction. In fact, you want to achieve something that has been a common phenomenon in Serbia's congregation life. You want it to be almost impossible to get into a situation where there is no quorum on the assembly board. So far, the lack of quorum or failure of quorum, as one of the legitimate means known by political practice, has been one of a kind of pressure on the ruling majority. Pressure to provide the quorum and show its political responsibility and political maturity in resolving issues that are within the authority of the committee. Second, to fulfil this fundamental reason for its existence and to resolve the issue of competence professionally and responsibly. Will the deputy members meet your expectations? What if the deputy members in certain situations are as irresponsible as that happened to individual members, and there are no quorums again? Will someone remember to invent an institution and a deputy deputy member? Then perhaps it would only then be a solution to the problem. Now I'd like to look back on my work without a quorum. That's also one question that needs to be said about. I think that's one of the essential issues in this proposal from your Rules of Procedure. You have predicted for some situations that the Assembly Committee can work without even having a quorum. This is a clear farce and a pure disenfranchisement of the institution of the Assembly Committee. Then why the quorum? Why are you coming to the meetings of the Assembly Committee? Just get the board president to finish the job, get him to find one, sit up with him and have him chat with the coffee shop, make a record and finish the job. Is that the essence of the board's existence? Is that the essence of the committee's work? The answer is clear, he's spoken at the beginning. So it's about one pure classic machiavelist approach to this problem, that the target set justifies every means. It's simply quite clear in this problem. I'd like to refer to one question that concerns public listening. Provisions of Art. The 83rd and 84th that regulate this issue are prescribed. Here continues what is often a practice with you and what is present in the proposals of certain legal proposals that come into this assembly, which is the principle of Resava School, in translation – copy, so it does not matter whether it is adequate and appropriate for our political everyday life, our political events, our lives, because it is not all better. You know, if someone thinks that when they saddled a pig that he got a good horse, he's wrong. It's not like that. It's actually one farce and one distraction, copying something that's never been good for anyone else. Whoever does this and thinks he's done something good either out of error or out of intent, doesn't really need to spend a lot of words about it. I'm going to say something about shortening the procedure. Article 95 regulates in which cases the MP may suggest that the procedure be shortened. In principle, these should be some of the less important regulations or because of the need, as you say, European integration. Is that so? Here are some examples. You are predicting a reduction in the procedure for, for example, the confirmation of international contracts. It's true that this should be shortened, but by your view, and you know when? When something needs to be brought in quickly, something needs to be brought in under someone's pressure and something should possibly be clouded or hidden from the citizens of Serbia. You know, if it weren't for that, it wouldn't have happened to us, and I guess by applying this regulation, it's gonna be even more so that no one lives knowing what rights other people have going through our territory. In normal states, ladies and gentlemen, such an international agreement is subject to a referendum, not an object to be done over the knee. Well, the Slovenians, ladies and gentlemen, have held a referendum on the issue of the demarcation of the state border with Croatia, whether international institutions will be involved in this or not, and you are giving part of sovereignty in favour of the foreign army without anyone knowing what's going on behind the hill here. That sort of thing you're going to suggest tomorrow to be resolved by a brief procedure. Or, under two, authentic interpretation of the law. When the need arises that the body that passed some law, so here the National Assembly, should bring its authentic interpretation, means that there is either something unclear or that there is some dispute that needs to be resolved here, therefore, by that authority that has passed that law. And for that, you've anticipated a reduced procedure. At best, here should be an extension of the procedure, or at least keep it as it was, and not in any way shorten it. Let me just look at one more question, and that's choice and resolution. Here you also predicted a brief procedure and for some clear reasons. It is important to you here that someone, without some long discussion and a predetermined scenario, choose a function, usually like a party chamber. The obvious example of this is the choice of judges and prosecutors, and that choice, we have seen, many who do not meet the professional criteria and who simply pass, so many of them, I say, as people of questionable moral traits. So then it may be, as was already in this assembly, I will remind you, that the primary prosecutor is elected by the judge of the municipal court, who, as president of the Electoral Commission, made eight decisions, eight decisions on the election of eight council members, at eight different sessions, without having held one session. They brought her these solutions done, done, signed, and the committees were elected. That's what can happen when a choice is done as you predict in your proposal for a Rules of Procedure. You really should listen sometimes to the opposition, sometimes to the minority, because you know, as one mindhead said – the minority is sometimes right, and most are always wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42829	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42830	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I have objections to the proposed Rules of Procedure, so if the history of the Serbian parliament, such a Rules of Procedure and such a dictatorship, which is faster than artillery, is not recorded. As my first remark, I would have had to do with the president of the National Assembly as defined. In Article 27, the president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly. No, the president of the National Assembly should represent the National Assembly. Further, she convenes her sessions, presides over them and does other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. By studying the parallel law, among other things, I have analyzed the rules of procedure of the German Bundestag, which I own since 1982. In Article 7 of this Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestag, the tasks of the President have been formulated – the President is representing the Bundestag and is leading his affairs, he is safeguarding the dignity and rights of the Bundestag, improving his work, conducting discussions, fair and impartial and taking care of order. I think this formulation was where and where more regular, because the president of the National Assembly is not going to the Olympic Games to represent the country, he represents parliament. That's one remark. Furthermore, when it comes to parliamentary democracy and this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, which I assess from my point of view, for 20-30 years, becomes one big paradox. The beginning of the 21st century marked a highly distinguished paradox – democracy reportedly triumphed in most countries of the world and as an ideal, and as a set of political institutions and practices. As great Democrats, however, many in many countries have caused great disappointment over the results it has achieved in practice, as is the case in our country. Parliaments today play a key role in resolving this paradox. They are the central institution of democracy, because they express the will of the people, convey people's expectations and seek answers for their needs. In my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, it is parliament that should help solve the most pressing problems citizens face in everyday life. As the elected body representing all the structures of society, our Parliament has a unique responsibility to bring all interests and expectations of our citizens into line through democratic dialogue. Unfortunately, there is no democratic dialogue in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia between the ruling coalition and the opposition, as the ruling coalition humiliates, demeans, and does not respect the opposition, which the citizens have also elected in the elections. The contribution of parliament to democracy, what is it like in Serbia? As the ideal of democracy, we should have it as a basic principle, a guaranteed framework for civil rights. When it comes to civil rights, I have to point out, in order for people to be able to influence the laws and policies that apply to them, they need to be guaranteed the basic rights to express themselves freely, to freely team up with others, to choose their representatives in free and fair elections. While respect for the right is the responsibility of all citizens, parliament as a legislative authority has a special responsibility to ensure the formulation of how these rights are protected in practice, in accordance with international standards and human rights. What should be the framework for the democratic parliament? Parliament should ensure adequate representation of its voters and their elected representatives - MPs, to be transparent, to be available, to have parliament's accounts, that means that MPs account for their voters and to be effective. - Protection of MPs' rights in the exercise of their mandates, especially when it comes to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. One of the basic conditions that there is adequate representation in parliament is that MPs successfully represent their voters. This Rules of Procedure has made it impossible for MPs to freely deliver their opinions without fear or fear. Historically, MPs have often been exposed to various forms of pressure and intimidation by governments, and in particular that they have come public against government abuse, MPs have often been in a position to suffer unfair pressures from other circles of power. The protection of the rights of MPs is a prerequisite that allows MPs to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of our citizens. The opposition in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia has made it impossible. - Control through parliamentary matters and interpretations. The purpose of asking parliamentary questions in the National Assembly is, above all, to give MPs the opportunity to seek information on issues of public importance. Secondly, the issue of public importance puts pressure on the government to act in the interests of the people and the state. Other important characteristics of parliamentary issues concern giving MPs the opportunity to convey to the Government the opinion and mood of the public on the current and important issues of citizens. Madam President, I do not know whether the motionor had the opportunity and if you know – in the event of violations of parliamentary rights not resolved at the state level, MPs can appeal to the Committee for Human Rights of MPs, which was founded under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union in 1977. This committee, made up of senior parliament officials from around the world, is working on a procedure similar to the court procedure aimed at reaching a mutually acceptable agreement with the government, or parliament on the issue. The Interparliamentary Union Council is now accepted as the main international body for the protection of MPs' rights. I am informing all MPs whose rights are violated in this House that they have the right to address this institution for the protection of their rights. As far as parliamentary matters are concerned, the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestage have been regulated where and where, more specifically, more extensively. Members are allowed to ask questions when the violation of the Rules of Procedure is for five minutes, in this Rules of Procedure you shall provide for two minutes. Is that democracy, are we going to the EU? We were in the EU 20 years ago, if we compare, and now we're going backwards. As far as parliamentary issues are concerned, a certain order has indeed been introduced in the Bundestaga, which the proposer could use. But it wasn't used. As regards the measures imposed by the President, the Head of Parliament, followed by the Administrative Board, there is in the German Rules of Procedure that the MP has the right to appeal, i.e. an objection to the agenda of the Bundestag Assembly, and that the Assembly makes a decision on it, but does not affect the postponement of the execution. Therefore, any MP to whom the measure is given has the right, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 36, which norms: "The equal protection of rights against courts and other state bodies by public authorities and by the authorities of the Autonomous Province and local self-government units is guaranteed. Everyone has the right to appeal or another right to a remedy against a decision that decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest." In view of these penalties being imposed on MPs, I don't think it has any basis, nor is it a constitutional category, and it's not legal, because there's no law on that. I must remind you that for the first time, the Administrative Board has made one decision in my complaint, which was positive and which, in any case, the Administrative Board has acted correctly, because I have made an objection and the Administrative Board has adopted this objection and amended the decision on a certain sanction. As far as the other issues are concerned, I would refer to asking parliamentary questions. I was able to ask a parliamentary question on the basis of whom I had not received an answer to this day on 29 October 2009. The following companies were privatised in Pančevo: "Veterinary station" Pančevo, JNP "Pančevac" Pančevo, DP "Pan raw materials" Pančevo, "Utva" Pančevo, NIP, Cybernetic Centre Pančevo, "Pubuka" industry scrutinsko Pančevo, "Utva service" Pančevo, "Tamiš informika", Pančevo, "Utva projekt" Pančevo, "Silomont" Pančevo, "Molmont" Pančevo, "Molprom" a.d. Pančevo, "Gaj" Pančevo, "Same Tamiš, Pančevo, "Tamish Shop" "Pančevo", "Pančevo" "Pančevrica" "Pančevrica" I asked for an answer – since Panchevo was sold? Mrs. Comic, I didn't get an answer today. You don't have to warn me with your hand. First of all, this is the question I asked, but to this day I didn't get an answer. After Pancheva was sold? These are issues of importance to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42831	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Your task force has 18 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42832	Usually when someone who plays the majority in the National Assembly, which is played by one who has 125 MPs and somehow gets to 127 - 128, and if he provides by buying another 130, as this example said, then there is no problem, then it's all clear. Just to remind you, this is not the first time in history that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is brought. I remember, Mrs. Kolundjia and 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42833	Mr. Krasic, don't speak to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, but to me and to Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42834	You want me to talk to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42835	To me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42836	You were persecuted in 2001 by Mrs. Hope Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42837	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42838	But I'm talking to you right now to protect you, Mrs. Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42839	Do not protect me but take part in the debate as business plans are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42840	So in 2001, the Rules of Procedure was brought in, also through "parliamentary violence". Secured by some majority, infused provisions. There was also punishment, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then look at a stenogram where Gordana Pop Lazic says, "Thank you for giving me your word, good day, gentlemen of the Parliament", president of the Assembly, "I give you my first warning". This is how democracy in the Republic of Serbia prevailed after the great arson, and the 1991 Rules of Procedure was overrun, you remember then talking to Balkan butcher Slobodan Milosevic. You see, he had the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, brought in in his time, which had no limitations whatsoever. There were later restrictions on the erosion of power and erosion of government. When you start by replacing certain provisions or by adopting a new Rules of Procedure, you unmistakably send a message that you are preparing for illegality. Anyone who changed the Rules of Procedure in the way you did, he sent a clear message, a clear message. Of course, since you don't have any system for this Rules of Procedure, because you don't actually know what you want systemically, you know instinctively what you need. Instinctively you need to pretend to be the government at all levels and show the successful work of this building, but not the MPs, but the building. You see, in 2001 126 MPs were quorum for work. So in 2000 and some years you cut to 83, 84 because you couldn't catch them being there. Why? Because they're systemic in conflict of interest. They have a million functions each. They have these functions to keep quiet here. When the time comes to open the session, it is a stampede in the National Assembly – it is running, breaking in from all sides to push the card, to remove and bye-bye students, we go to another function. We don't care about this here. Why? Because if a government official shows up, then he's gonna mumble something. If there's no argument he'll tell us about any stupidity that pro-European fluid and pro-European value. We change pro-European values six times a year. We've been spinning 50 laws for 10 years. All that was European in 2003, best of all, here's an example – the forester's law on construction. The best law, it can't be better. Everyone gets a construction permit in 45 days. Last year Dulic came and said – nothing wrong with the law, we have to pass a new law. We've passed a new law and yet another permit has not been granted under that law. It won't even be delivered until Miskovic sells his property. You're not the government. The DS government is not in the DS, it is in tycoons, in foreign intelligence services, in media houses, it is at university, in NGOs. You are the common actors here, who need to raise your hands, to show something – from tomorrow to tomorrow, it is booming in Serbia, and Serbia is falling ever more and more every day. We'll get to the 12th and 13th points, so you'll hear the defeating results of your ten-year reign. We just heard someone talking about human rights, so this Rules of Procedure doesn't touch human rights. It is evident that Bosa Nenadic has influenced the thinking of some MPs. You know, election law is a human right, it can be active and passive. Active voting law is regulated by the Law on Elections, and passive voting law is not regulated by law. The only document that has some points of contact with passive voting law within the meaning of the rules is the Rules of Procedure. But what's worth it is that you have passive voting rights not the right to be chosen but the right to be elected. You mutilated the National Assembly. You don't allow any Rules of Procedures to live here in the Assembly. With this Rules of Procedure, you've shown top-notch mastery in finding formulas that can be of high significance. Any member can be interpreted in 15 ways. Of course, this Rules of Procedure can't be fixed, it can simply be withdrawn, thrown out of use. I don't argue that when you bring it in that you're going to apply it, but no problem you're supposed to be bringing in a new Rules of Procedure, you can't handle it with this Rules of Procedure, that's the problem. You can't bid 200 laws. Why? Because the government can't write more than 20 over the year, and it can change the ones it brought back 20 more times. You can't give consent every year to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, so he says – an epochal thing, we have two members who regulate how consent is given. You can't choose a governor every 15 days. This will be your "last" for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. These are no threats, these are warnings. Is this congregation able to control the government? It's not. Maybe one of you is intimate and wants out of power, because of your neighbors, friends, relatives, because you can't take that criticism in four eyes anymore, but you can't systematically control it. Why? Because whoever rules in this country said nothing should be touched. Such a feudal distribution of government in the Republic of Serbia. It's cemented, it's signed, and you have to stick to it. In many places, there is an invitation to the virtual European Union. You know, there's only one thing you've done wrong - Eurofanatics and Eurosceptics are fully working in the EU, because both people are choosing. They're facing their opinions. You don't, you have that mentality before the eighth session, there's no room for alternatives, there's no room for a different way of thinking. A different way of thinking, different suggestions, it has to be condemned at all costs, and it doesn't matter what you accept in three months. You changed Todorovic because he asked the board to settle some issues. You replaced a man, and then you asked for those questions to be solved both "Luke" and foreign spies, etc. There was no blockade, and then it's said, you know, we made a mistake here, we need to correct it, the government's MP should be the chairman of the Security Committee. It's not good when it comes from the opposition, but there was no interference while you were in the opposition, to insist that the opposition belong to that place. So, according to your archeologist - democracy is what you say, the law is what you say, the Constitution is what you say, the law is just what suits you, what represents your interest. It'll be through the media, through NGOs, through various sponsors to represent it as something that's absolutely true, it doesn't matter. After three months, you'll have all that licking, but it doesn't matter, then the new campaign will go, and that's how it goes in circles. Now I have to disappoint you a little bit, I guess you've been visiting, since you're Eurofanatics, and the parliaments of the European states. You could not find such solutions for the Rules of Procedure as you are now offering. You could also be present at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you just have to understand that there are laws not passed there but resolutions, declarations, and, according to a special procedure, it initiates and the procedure for the conclusion of international conventions. That procedure over there can't be repainted here, but you're also below the criteria that exist there. There is no such thing in the two - housed parliaments, such as France, the Senate, or the National Assembly. Now I have to disappoint you, in this building in 1994 were the first attempts to pass laws according to a different procedure – to be the first and second reading and to go to the tide. That gave good results. But there has been no discussion of amendments to the tide, as the amendments are not avoided in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe either. You need the opposition to give you a quorum, and when you were in the opposition, you didn't want to enter. You are bothered by the amendments and you have submitted 4,000 amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, in 1994 or 1995. That was a good thing back then. Then it was normal obstruction, normal political action. And when an amendment is written here, it's like a snake burned you. That's the criterion. You're just not alike for a multiparty system. The mental set of your ideology is close to Stalin. You play democracy here, through the media, in another way, you smile, etc. I used a paradigm on purpose earlier – you called a man a Balkan butcher. In his day, he was the best, most liberal Rules of Procedure on Labour. A man who introduced a multiparty system in Serbia. Since you've been here, for the last 10 years, you've been destroying everything that's the fluid of democracy. I know infallibly, when Bosko appears, Nenad Konstantinović and Vlatkovic, as authors or signatories of something – there is nothing. That won't bring any results. There may be a little more punishment, perhaps, and then Konstantinovic will, through his board, play the humanity of the Democratic Party and the National Assembly, with other people's money, there is a master, etc. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the scene: Good thing I didn't write. () Lucky for you, in 2000, Vlajko Stojljkovic was Minister of the Interior, so he arrested you 40 times. I'd only arrest you once, and that would be enough, and you'd be a specimen for everyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42841	Mr. Krasic, don't speak to the MPs. I ask the MPs not to disturb Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42842	Protect me from this man, is that he's a little short, but you see how cute he is, poisoned like a snake. So, dear citizens of Serbia, you see for yourself how it goes. Kosovo is uncertainly, the EU is kidnapping, and the EU is pressuring these five to recognise an independent Kosovo, and it is likely that the 18th someone will say – well, I will recognise an independent Kosovo, just to get the authority. Anything is possible, but the National Assembly should be a stage. The National Assembly can attack anyone, the National Assembly can be disrespected, we can't hear each other here. You say - public listening. It's for nothing that you listen to when you don't hear anything. You won't hear. It's just, the tape's put on, it's twisted. The task must be fulfilled and no funds shall be selected to complete the task. Of course, we're going to criticise you. We will do all of this properly – books, newspapers, stands and other places. I just remind you -- when you hit parliamentary rights, the rights to represent citizens, something very bad is happening in the state -- we usually lose some territory, you know. You remember in '95 someone was held in Gjilan at the time of Krajina's fall. Think back a little bit. You've taken the wrong topic. You are not satisfied with the work of the National Assembly, but the problem is in you, not in the Rules of Procedure. The problem with you is that you have no idea why you can't stand up to what you're getting here on the plate. You might want to talk as individuals and as people, but that's your problem. I appreciate that kind of loyalty to your political party and that you're in a coalition, but don't deny the rights of the MPs. Remember how you were in 2004 – smaller than the macaw grain. Remember the Justice Committee. Then you challenged Vidi Petrovic Škero that she also graduated from Law School. You've challenged everything. The wheel of happiness turns; the hour is down, the hour is up. People change. Rarely anyone who can believe more in this illusion and his pocket empty, his soul empty, his heart empty. The territory, the territory, your president hugs all those who have recognised an independent Kosovo. Don't think that leaves no mark on the citizens. He's leaving. Pull this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are made by sitting down and making arrangements. But not the way you deal. Just a few times I've been to meetings of representatives of MPs' groups for meetings of the National Assembly, and for a living, I don't think I'm going to those meetings anymore. As Nada Kolundžija, Gordana Komic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic behave, please excuse me, it is beneath me, so there is no conversation. They say, "We have decided and done so." Then why did you call us? What do we talk about? To tell us what you can on paper, at the invitation to give? And you cultivate the spirit of parliamentaryism. What kind of spirit is parliamentaryism?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42843	Time. You're not telling the truth, and the time is up. Since the lists are no longer signed up for a word, I ask whether the president or representative of the parliamentary group or someone who has not exercised the right to Article 93 wants to speak. Rules of Procedure? I'll give you my word. Replica, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42844	Mrs. Djukic, you said I wasn't telling the truth. Don't you regret saying that? Wasn't that the kind of meeting you had? Didn't the Prophet and I leave the meeting when we heard what you wanted from us? We have to finish it - goodbye. Was that so? Be careful when you come into the controversy with me. Only a few people here publicly said I was lying. They don't do politics anymore. Look at the stenograms.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42845	Mr. Krasic, you haven't told the truth. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42846	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that this debate today has turned into a criticism of the opposition, and a great praise for the position that so greats these changes in the rules of procedure that simply makes a man sick. I hadn't thought of answering my word, but it was so annoying when I listened to the discussion of the ruling coalition, which has brought so much praise to the Rules of Procedure, that this is all leading to democracy, that this leads Serbia into a better life, that this will restore Parliament's dignity, that this will perform a miracle in Serbia, that 400 laws last year have been passed in parliament. It has been said that this and that figures are expected this year, etc. 'I wanted to draw attention to the fact that this Rules of Procedure was voted so violently. The rules of procedure have been voted by the ruling majority who has neither called nor courted the opposition to attend the draft rules of procedure, as the rules of procedure must be common to the position and opposition. The rules of procedure must contribute to Serbia's democratisation, to make Serbia feel much better after its adoption both more respected and position and opposition. This Rules of Procedure should do a lot of things in Serbia to make one move, to restore dignity to this parliament, which is ugly to the end, and you have brought it down from the ruling coalition, which only serves this parliament to enter as today to make a quorum for the session to begin, to come and vote when it is due to vote. You're no longer interested. Of course, you call in a little praise, etc., but everyone sees that it's pointless. We're away from democracy every day. We destroy our institutions more and more every day. The institution we most destroy is parliament. You gentlemen of the ruling coalition are making an extraordinary effort to do this. Is it possible in some normal state, and get me one country in the world that there are 34 ministries, and you want to reduce the number of working bodies of the parliament, or the committee in half. What does that mean? That half the ministries would be out of control. And now no one's controlling them. And now the boards look ridiculous. You make a majority, you get rid of it in five minutes, the boards usually sit in a break or run out in a hurry, let's vote, raise a hand, get out and the story ends. You're turning hundreds of laws from day to day, year to year. Now I ask you a very serious question, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, who will invest in a country that changes 400 laws annually. Which investment group will come into Serbia and invest its resources, when we ourselves do not know how long the law will last. Here, the other day we passed the Traffic Safety Act. Today we have a new law, and today we are told by the ruling coalition that in a few months there will be another new law, that another new law is being prepared. Is that anywhere? Is there a country in which someone will come and invest their capital? Is there a state that anyone will feel safe in it if, for the morning, gentlemen, 15 laws are passed in principle from agriculture? If you adopt 45 laws in one day, if you don't have a normal debate on the duties of this country, which is in charge, where the funds are spent, and in what way. Do you have any idea how much democracy you've broken in recent years? I am very sorry that I have spent my whole life fighting for democracy and democratic change in Serbia. Where you're going now and someone's giving you instructions, I was 17, 18, 20 years ago when you talked about what you wanted in Serbia. Where did you bring us today? You have brought us, gentlemen, from the Public Procurement Act, which you have said in your time that it is the most modern in Europe and that it is in line with the principles of the EU, you have brought us to a free contract today. You know when it was? In the Middle Ages. Now we have a free contract. You signed the agreements with a free contract yesterday, whether or not you're returning some of the laws from the Ottoman Empire, I don't know. Where you go back and what you do. You sign the laws for something you say you don't have projects yet. You sign the agreements by means of a free contract, as someone will order you, and as long as he commands you, and what he tells you. You here in this House have now brought these Rules of Procedures, counting on these two, to answer no one. I'm an MP who asked the government perhaps the most questions, at least that's how I read in the media recently. I haven't received an answer from a single minister yet. He says, "Squeaky questions." Ministers don't respond. They don't care if they answer what an MP asks in parliament. For them, parliament is something where sometimes it will come here and scold the MPs, and you, devalue the MPs and our reputation, will let them speak for hours. We talk for two minutes, they talk for two hours. Of course, it doesn't look like anything. I remember the Minister of Sutanovec, who spoke here for hours, spoke more than all the MPs combined. The man spoke, spoke, eventually we all went out and went home too happy to rest from the minister who was inspired to explain everything to us. Now you have a chairman who says the same thing more than MPs. You don't have a Rules of Procedure to protect the MPs, to protect the opposition. This Rules of Procedure has completely destroyed the Serbian opposition. You think the opposition does not exist because through the Rules of Procedure it cannot be proved and proved, and shown, and cannot say what is important to Serbia. So I was in the government, then it was the power of another party that was in opposition in Belgrade, Vojvodina. We respected them, respected them, protected them, defended them with our rules of procedure here in Parliament, and let them do theirs, and you want everything. You want the city, and the province, and the Republic and the cities. This now that you've taken to the King, this is embarrassing. The minister says who the mayor is, and the people said who the mayor was, so you killed him and the man died when he went home from a meeting in the municipality because he couldn't stand the torture he had. And now you're breaking and chasing these. Your court of the administrative Republic of Serbia ruled, they lost the dispute and resolved the question, your court, if you respect it, if it means anything to you. The government has reached a conclusion as to who the MP is. That's where you work at the bar, whatever you want. If we worked here the tenth part, it'd be a miracle. It's where you go out for a pay phone, it's singing. You won't let us approach the pay phone. Have you seen footage of what your colleagues from the ruling coalition are doing in many cities where the opposition are? They go out, they sing, they play, they don't let sessions be held, they don't give anybody a word, they rip off microphones, they shoot at colleagues who are chosen by legitimate will by citizens, they do whatever they want. You're defending it all. You protect everything and you can do anything. That's why Serbia is failing. We are away from the EU every day. We're getting closer to the laws of the Ottoman Empire, which has now turned out in the New Market. Couldn't the president have been in Bratuntz that day? Why did he humiliate Serbia and Serbian victims? How could he be in Srebrenica without being in Bratunca? It is a disgrace for both parliament and for all of us and for Serbia. It's a mess. So much spit in Srebrenica at the expense of the Serb people and at the expense of Serbia. He kept everything quiet, smiled and just made out with them. Of course, he wasn't allowed to go to Bratunac, but he went to the New Market to talk about some roads, some free contracts, some work, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42847	Mr. Ilic, I really ask you to speak of the state activities of the President of the Republic with sufficient dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42848	I'm offended as a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42849	You must bear in mind that this is about the president who was elected by the citizens and I really ask you that when you talk about his activities, you speak the chosen words and the words that correspond to the truth. It wasn't about squawking, you know, this is really about telling a measure, please don't put me in a position to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42850	And we were elected by the citizens. And we're some kind of government controller. Now you're not going to tell one real truth. What's this little cosmetic in the Rules of Procedure? You want to create conditions to change the Constitution by two-thirds of the majority, to get the deals to change the Constitution, which makes you sick. You want to bring the MPs down to one corner here, be for the seed. There, we have MPs too. It's a little bit of a joke, you know. That's what you need. You have more ministers, a little more secretary of state and assistants twice as many as MPs, and advisors. There's no country in the world, only you. You have so much to worry about, the other day I was in a small place called Koserić by accident and there was a general alert. Dinkic is coming to open a liquor factory and bring in chefs, bring in a full bus, bring in waiters, bring in some... What are the names of those who taste food, what Tito had - tasters, that's right. (President: Mr. Ilic, you have already talked about this event in the Assembly. It is, but I have to do it again, because it happens every day. (President: The Rules of Procedure are on the agenda. We're talking about the Rules of Procedure, the debate in principle. Where does it say you can have tasters? Who gave you permission? Which parliament voted to pay for those tasters? What are you paying them for? Do you all have your waiters? Do you all have your chefs? Do you all have your tasters? From what, gentlemen? There's no such thing as budget law. Exorcised everyone out and brought some audience there, etc. I remind you that what you are doing is wrong, because you are further away from the EU. Look at the EU what you're doing. We're moving on. It is now mentioned in 2018. I remember when I was in Washington, with the late Djindjic, and in Brussels, it was said – in 2004 you are members of the EU. There, all those affairs, what it's done, all your appetites, the changes in the law have completely alienated us. There's nothing left. You don't even talk about the EU anymore. Now you're going to question something. Now you will set up some new EU rules for sure, etc., to pass some new laws, perhaps for them. So nothing's good about this. This isn't good for Serbia. You must plead because you have raised your hands from the EU. We're not opposition, but we're looking for clear rules of play. We want to talk to them. We want cooperation. If the Chinese wave a little bit of money to you, you all go to Beijing, you kill the pole and you talk – a billion will come. Then they waved at you from Moscow one billion, and said, "Now there is none of it." Now the Turks wave to you, you break around the Turks. They waved a little from Brussels... (President: I will still ask you to compare expression. I want this parliament to protect the state, to protect the constitutional order of this country. (President: Please protect Parliament's reputation by the way you speak. I'm fighting to protect the institutions and don't be angry, Madam President. I want to protect you, too, because tomorrow someone will ask you about all this. What do you think, Dulica? Last time I wanted to protect him from making any more nonsense, because tomorrow someone's gonna turn him around, so he's gonna answer fat. You see, I want those satellites to respond there. Take care of yourself. Let's get some procedure going. You can't hide it all and shove it under the carpet. It's grown a lot, and it can't survive anymore. Our genius prime minister says yesterday that the crisis has passed and in the second half of the year it will be much better, and the second half of the year has already begun. We're already in the other half, if he can count. Maybe the man has mixed up some concepts. We're already in the other half. When they passed, we left the other half, we came in winter, in the fall. When's that gonna get better? When he collects the power, the gas, when another 100,000 people are out of a job. So I don't understand anything. Come to your senses, people, come to your senses. Get up one morning, wash yourself with cold water, take cold water and a sugar cube and sit all together and make a deal, and see what you do with this country. You've ruined this whole thing and ruined it. This doesn't look like the state anymore. You're coming now, offering us a free contract, building highways. When I did the concession, you asked every word on the Internet to be explained to you, every little thing. I've tried, six months I've explained 23,000 pages to you, every position you've ever thought of, and now you're one tender of 23,000 pages with a free contract to solve. But you're brilliant, I couldn't figure it out. Whose head can take so much information and data and make a deal? Who is this genius in the government who keeps it all in his head? What's that genius gonna do tomorrow if someone pulls him in? You will eventually boast here that everything works great, that everything is great and that this is all in the interests of the people, the citizens, etc., and the poor citizens are falling into thin air. Now the harvest begins. How's the farmer going after the harvest? Did this parliament protect the peasant? Did he protect the Serb village? No, ma'am. The other day I listen to your party friend Pajtic, who says he managed to buy property and entire households in Vojvodina for 3,000 euros and give refugees. He completely brought down the Serbian village. Imagine five generations worked. So my grandfather's worth 500 euros his whole life, and my great-grandfather may be 200-300 euros and everything when we add them up in the chain, they're worth 3,000 euros. It's a disgrace to Serbia. It's a disgrace to all of us. Instead of asking him what his intentions are...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42851	Time, and otherwise you don't talk about the subject. Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42852	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the debate today and because of the possibility that citizens have forgotten what we are discussing today, because from many discussions they have not been able to conclude, we are today discussing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This Rules of Procedure is not an expression of any boss or will of the ruling majority to change something, but of the constitutional obligation and obligation created by the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly. We are doing this in the best way to respect the Constitution, on the one hand, to respect the law and, on the other hand, to arrange procedures that are an integral part of every democracy. I can't talk about what didn't concern this subject at all. I can't talk about what's most common lies, because lying to a liar shows that you're even willing to accept a lie as any argument, and that's why I absolutely won't talk about the large amount of untruths that have been told here about the Rules of Procedure, and most often not about this subject. What could be concluded from these discussions, which leaves me convinced that we actually made a great Rules of Procedure, is the fact that if what is really said in the Rules of Procedure, then the objections are not significant, or hardly there are. If we are talking about what the remarks are, and the rules of procedure don't say at all, so it refers to something that doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure, then I simply feel that it is necessary to comment very briefly, just because citizens don't get the impression that there's something in this Rules of Procedure that doesn't actually write, or that something that's written has been left out, and here it's talked about as if it's not defined in this Rules of Procedure. So, from most of these discussions, we can only conclude that many have not really read this text, that some who have read it have not understood it, that those who have commented from the point of view of comparison with the Constitution do not know the Constitution, that those who have commented on it from the point of view of some legal solutions do not know the Law on the National Assembly and that they do not know that the Law on the National Assembly has defined some questions. And so I'm going to take just one example as an illustration to show that I'm not really speaking in my mind, but very specific about the objections that prove that this is actually the result of the ignorance of constitutional matter. So here it is objected why the President of the Assembly does not represent the National Assembly but represents the National Assembly, so the Constitution, Article 104, says the president of the Assembly represents the National Assembly. So that's one example. There's been a lot of examples here. We are in the debate that preceded and lasted more than a year, participating in this debate, actually working on a job that had several elements. One was the alignment with the Constitution, the other was the alignment with the Law on the National Assembly, and the third was how to remove what we recorded as possible shortcomings in the work and organisation of the National Assembly through the establishment of some new institutes, which would enable, on the one hand, parliament to be effective, and on the other hand, that it really does not restrict the right of MPs. Here it is said that this Rules of Procedure is being made a torture of the majority, and I think anyone who knows anything about the political system and parliamentary democracy knows that the torture of the majority does not exist. There is no parliament, although there were advocates here who felt that everything in this House, and in particular the Rules of Procedure, should be passed by consensus. There is no parliament that and one single act in parliament brings consensus. That's why the qualified majority is determined. It differs from the importance of the individual documents being brought in, and thus there is a half majority of the total number, so the two-thirds majority, etc. or a simple majority. Those who speak of a consensus here do not really understand what a democratic political system is, which implies that parliament is the body in which representatives of citizens come, which makes up the parliamentary majority that elects the government, and then votes to a certain majority of different acts. It's about the fundamental ignorance of the system, which they claim we should build. I believe that many countries that have 300 years of tradition in building democracy would already classify it, if it really meant some kind of democracy or if it were at all a possible system, but since no one did it on the planet, who has a parliament, then I guess their experiences say it's either not possible or not essential democracy. What has been cited here as some basic flaw is the intention of the parliamentary majority to prevent the opposition from expressing its opinion, to express its views, etc. No single member of this Rules of Procedure can conclude that there is any desire or intention to make it impossible for anyone in this Parliament to give their opinion. If someone thinks that showing an opinion is an endless statement of everything and everything, without any order, regardless of the subject, regardless of the rights of other MPs in this House, then he also does not understand the way parliaments are organised in developed democratic systems. The rules of procedure mean that all MPs are equal, that they have equal rights and equal opportunities, but that doesn't mean that someone can abuse that right. Someone here has said that the number of members of this Rules of Procedure shows that he is too freaked out and that there are more members than the Constitution. I don't want to comment on it, because that would mean that there are certain elements of understanding that need to be polluted. If you have the highest act to determine the principles, the basic principles, and on the other hand you have an act that determines the procedures, and procedures concerning many areas and many topics, then I think that this comparison is at least a lack of arguments that really criticises this text. How many criticisms are not seriously proving yet another example. The view here is that the KIM Committee contains only two positions and that if that is so little, then it would have been better if it hadn't been for those two attitudes and there wasn't a committee either. These are the same rules of procedure that are now in force. The KiM committee is defined by one position. It doesn't matter if it's one or two attitudes. In our deep confidence, we have given the KIM Committee the authority that what is very important, and which has not been defined so far, that it is bringing acts, to propose to the Assembly acts that are related to what are issues, problems and status regarding KIM. In that sense, I think we've improved the previous text of this Rules of Procedure. There have been stories here that by passing many laws, the Assembly has devalued its own role. It's also very difficult to comment on. We are a country in transition, a country that needs to change the whole system and has to bring it into line with that system of values and the system of political, legal, economic, etc., which we look forward to and which we want to bring into line with the EU, and this means that the legislative activity of this Parliament is enormously high compared to the countries that have already brought most of their laws in line with European legislation. The question has also been raised that we are moving away from the EU, i.e. it was some claim that we are moving away from the EU. This Rules of Procedure was made in co-operation with European institutions and representatives of European institutions. So, many of these suggestions that have been applied in other parliaments, the working group that has worked on this Rules of Procedure has also adopted, according to their assessment, this Parliament satisfies what the rules of procedure normally apply in other parliaments. So, each parliament regulates it in its own way, but what is important is that the principle of efficiency does not deny the possibility of serious debate in parliament. In that sense, we have shifted the focus of future discussions to committees. We believe that committees should gain special importance and that discussions on committees should be the focus of what is going on here, that the tide is just to face opinions and that, in that final debate on some act, we would see where anyone is in relation to this act. To comment that we are moving away from the EU and that we are destroying democracy, I just want to say that this parliamentary majority, this assembly, thanks to its work, has become, according to the European institutions, the most serious partner in Serbia's European integration process. She's got all the best grades. We, among other things, have led the work of this government and the work of this Parliament to visa-free citizens of Serbia, we have made it possible and led to the Transitional Agreement being ratified, we believe that we will lead to Serbia's candidacy and that we will lead Serbia to full membership in the EU. Anyone who is so worried about European integration, while doing everything to ensure that Serbia never becomes a member of the EU, I simply think that it is leading one hypocritical policy which, in the end, citizens seem to be very well-recognizable and those in every re-election simply do not get support from citizens. So, what I'm saying is that we've obviously made a good Rules of Procedure because there are no serious fundamental objections to what this Rules of Procedure defines. If anyone has objections to the harvest, etc., we can discuss it, but this is not the topic we should discuss now and which we should consider when adopting this act. Once again, I want to repeat, there is no parliament that does not make decisions mostly and tries to put in citizens this completely wrong thesis that there is some kind of violence when a qualified majority of decisions are, in fact, unable to criticise or at least more seriously engage in efforts to make this job better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-13-0.u42853	I'm concluding a unique search. I would like to inform you that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly will decide on amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and then on the draft rules of procedure in general. I thank you for your participation in this session. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
