ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49673	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, and there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its first position that the MP first has to ask for a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on the issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which is, on the basis of Article 2(2) of the same article, that an extremely elected representative of the parliamentary group of Members may be entitled to attend the session of the National Assembly or at a session held for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and the transition to a further discussion. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Masic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49674	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, over the past month and a half, the Western Serbian area has been affected by large floods and particularly the area of the Ljubljana, Loznica and Bogatic municipality, has suffered considerable flood damage. I sent a letter to the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture on 6 December before the Committee on Agriculture, as the chairman of the Committee, to the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out the Agriculture Committee, on the scale of the flooded area, especially agricultural land and agricultural land. To this day, however, no response has been received to the Committee, either from the Government or from agriculture. For these very reasons, I am using this opportunity and, once again, to ask certain questions to the Government and Ministry of Agriculture, related to the flooded areas and damages that occurred in this area, so that I ask the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to perform exactly what the number of settlements were, which are flooded in these municipalities, and certainly there should be taken into account the municipality of Prepolje, because there was also a flood from the spilling of Lima, but the greater extent of the flood was the spilling of Drina in Ljubovija, Loznica and the municipality of Bogatic. So to tell us how many settlements are flooded, how many households are flooded, and especially how many agricultural holdings. Then how many areas of agricultural land have been flooded, how many animals have died in the flooded area, and certainly, to report to us what measures have been taken in these flooded areas and which are still being taken. According to some information from information funds, a large number of citizens still have major problems in this area, have no basics, such as heating, to order their ovens and dry their flooded rooms, residential spaces. You should report to us what measures are still being taken and particularly whether and how much compensation has been paid to the flooded households in these areas, and also whether the Government and the Ministry are planning to release certain taxes in the coming period, tax to the State and to assist those households in setting up spring plantings, because in these areas, if wheat is sown, it is well done and destroyed or some other plantings, whether it is planned to provide the necessary inputs for the establishment of agricultural production. I hope we don't wait this long, since similar questions have already been addressed to the government and the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm undermining, to this day, the Committee on Agriculture has not arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49675	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask the question to the President of the Republic, since I have asked less questions to all state institutions and there is no answer to this day, and there is clearly no chance in this country of going into crime and corruption. What will the President of the Republic answer, I suppose, given that he is well aware of the whole situation that he will finally do something about it. Otherwise, just to inform you, CESID has conducted one interrogation, it's your organisation you can't say that from the SRS and according to these surveys, Serbian citizens say 23% -- criminals, 18% of the Prime Minister and 18% of the owners of large enterprises, and this group has robbed citizens of Serbia in these last ten years, but here from this group maybe you could single out the President of the Republic and finally get an answer to a very simple question. When "Mobtel" was taken from Karic, a new company "Mobi 63" was created by the Republic of Serbia and a company from Cyprus is called "Holden Krust Holding", they made a contract and, among other things, in contributions to the founding act listed no funds, the Republic of Serbia 92 million, the "Holding Krust" 39 million, which is a total of 132 million. When we applied for non-money contributions for 132 million in the Agency for Commercial Registers in court, there is not one single letter, for 132 million, and the established company Moby 63. Otherwise, to remind you of the papers, the face of Mladjan Dinkic was handed over. When this new company, Moby 63, was sold to Norwegians, the price of 370m euros for a license, a million and a hundred million for Mobi 63 total billion and a hundred thirteen million was sold to the Norwegians and it stands in the contract. On the other side of the contract says – the price for it is, a billion and a half hundred thirteen million. On the third side, they say, the buyer has a billion and three hundred and fifteen million. How did nearly 200 million get lost? Where are the $200 million? A special contract has been made with the National Bank, with the Republic of Serbia and the Norwegian operator, that money will be paid and how it will be paid, so-called. It's an escrow contract. We asked a simple question, to give us an answer, how much money was paid to that account. Is it really $1,513,000,000 or 1,315,000 that was paid out of that account? To this day, there is no answer. Also, we have asked another question about the complete, this one of the biggest crimes in Serbia over the past ten years. It was reportedly paid "Holding Krust" 96m euros, my people, on the bank account that he deposited when he founded Moby 63. We asked the Minister of Finance to answer, to which account was paid that money to get proof of whether this kind of money was actually paid. To this day there is no answer. That's a total of 400 million euros, my people, and there's no answer. I believe that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, after this, will finally take matters into his own hands and we will finally get answers. Otherwise, criminal charges are followed, as was the case with Luke Belgrade and the Novosti Company. Don't kid yourself, look what's going on in Montenegro, Europe doesn't want thieves... (President: five minutes. )... Criminal charges three years ago, but your turn will come, you must be responsible for the Serbian citizens' robbery. (President: You have used the time at your disposal. )... For the past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49677	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49678	Madam Chairman, I have been asked by President So Lapovo, Vice President So Lapovo and Councilman SO Lapovo, as an MP from the territory of the Shumada to ask the Agency for Spatial Planning the following question. Namely, the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a Regulation laying down a spatial plan for the infrastructure corridor of the highway E75 shares of Nis-Belgrade. This time obviously made one technical error and after the sighting of that technical error, the SO Lapovo boards made a decision suggesting that the existing road exits from corridor 10 were marked "Lapovo payment ramp", changed to the name "Lapovo center", and the existing payment ramp called "Batocina" in the projects "Kragujevac kosuta" was named "Lapovo south", because they are located in the territory of the populated town of Lapovo and in the Katastar municipality of Lapovo, and in order to avoid misunderstandings in defining these names and correct labelling of existing names. A letter to the address of the president of the municipality of Lapovo was received by the Republic's Space Planning Agency, which said that opinions and decisions were needed and that this request had entered the procedure. As a MP from the territory of the Woodland County, I would like to say that this is not a political issue at all. It is the intention of the SO Lapovo board to drop the legal procedure, to correct some kind of geographical error, because it should be taken into account that all facilities located on the exit of the car – road to Kragujevac from Kosut, Luke Oil pump, Guards, asphalt bases, etc., i.e. all legal entities bond SO Lapovo. That's why my question to the Spatial Planning Agency, as far as it came in this procedure and when the committees, or SO Lapovo, can expect to correct this kind of injustice. If this was not done, it could also cause possible refusal to give consent to the necessary permits and procedures by the catastra located in SO Lapovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49679	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49680	We have to ask the question for who knows which time, although we have never received an answer before, and the reason for today's question is again who knows which time, scandalous interview or statement by the Minister of Human and Minority Rights Mr. Chiplic. This interview appeared at the Public Service this morning and I don't know who the gentleman gave it to, at first to say that we were very surprised by the fact that the gentleman wasn't prevented from making statements, and he was prevented from reporting to the Serbian Assembly on the Committee on International Relations that was scheduled to be held yesterday, that he was due to report on his work, but he didn't come because he wasn't well, he went to bed. This did not prevent him from interviewing the Public Service and thus taking another step against human and minority rights that his ministry is responsible for. My particular question is, from that point forward, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, what exactly does Prime Minister Cvetkovic plan to do with his, hopefully, politically fugitive Minister Ciplic. What he's doing is really a prelude to new conflicts and we can freely say today that it's about the worst minister in this government and the man who is the generator of the conflict and all the problems in Sandzak. Let me prove it to you. It's very simple and easy. So, in that interview, the man brought out a bunch of lies and lies again. First, I need to remind you what the subject is. The theme is to form a Bosniak national council on which he won the so-called National Council. The dishonest Bosniak, therefore not allowed to establish that council. As we had in the '70s and 80s, honest and loyal Albanians and unfair and unfair, so now we have honest and loyal Bosniaks and unfair and unfair. And now, instead of Minister Ciplic doing his job by resolving the conflict and making sure that the Bosniaks in this country feel like they are in their home, which is the goal, I certainly know, of all MPs in parliament, the minister directs his every move in the opposite direction. So he wants to confront us, the majority people with the Bosniak people, and he never went to the scene of the problem. Minister Ciplic didn't even have the decency to go to Novi Pazar. So this isn't considered a threat, I don't advise him to go. What did Mr. Chiplic say today? He said he personally gave up sending a request to the Serbian Parliament's Legislative Committee to answer a number of questions. So he admitted it. I have no other question than the question – is this man normal? It is an agreement by three sides, representatives of the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, at a meeting held on 9 November 2010. They made all kinds of arrangements. Among other things, they agreed that in order to reach an agreement, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights would request the opinion of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly on the interpretation of Article 98, etc. The minister says today that he personally gave up on it, as he assured himself that one party had given up any negotiations. Of course he's convinced it's his side. He gave up the negotiations. His motive for dealing with it is to spread hate and conflict. Besides, there's another lie. It is said that on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations, Ciplic said it is important that Sasa Jankovic did not find that there was an illegal act in selecting the Bosniak national council. Listen, this is Sasa Jankovic's report on the control of the legality and regularity of the work of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights of the Republic of Serbia. So, Sasa Jankovic argues: Point 1. that "the work of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights has made errors that have favoured the violation of citizens' rights to data protection and personality related to enrollment in the voter's list". So isn't that illegal? Point 2: "They have violated the independence of national advisers as representative bodies of national minorities". Well, it's the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Further in the report, it is said: "the public defender believes that the Ministry was not authorised to norm this area without explicit authority in the law." So, third breach. And fourth infringement: "The Protector specifically points to the inadmissibility of the Ministry's position that the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Session of the National Council are a controversial provision on the two-thirds majority" etc. So it is determined that the reason why Chiplic does not allow that advice to be established is that he is against the law. I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic – if he wants to normalise relations in Sandzak, international relations, and if everyone, regardless of what religion and nations in this country feels like in his country, the first step must be the shift of Ciplic and the second step must be – no new elections, elections are held, but the establishment of a council of the Bosniak national community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49681	Five minutes. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49682	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the DSS, I am probably bored with both God and the people speaking in this assembly about the non-democracy processes in our society, which, most I have spoken of, are most viewed in the undemocratic work of this Parliament. By the way, the latest events just confirm that. The fact that in about ten hours of total debate we discussed Serbia's budget, five accompanying laws - property tax, excise tax, etc., and then on all this and this law on disability and pension insurance. Each of these laws is normally discussed in European parliaments for a month and more, which is on committees at plenary sessions. It's been a day with us. However, after a whole day we discussed some other issues, which I'm not saying shouldn't have been discussed, but when you compare it to these seven laws, it's just amazing. In doing so, I don't even see why it's done that way. Probably because no one would see the window broken. Unfortunately, practice in the work of this Parliament is not the only proof of the non-democratic processes in the country and the return to some times that are not very famous and that we cannot boast of anyone, nor of Europe, whose mouth is full of us. It's been happening lately, according to the DSS, certain phenomena in the work of the government. In fact, the government faced public criticism, even of itself favored media, to use a mild term, in fact controlled media, has stopped publishing its decisions. I remind you that we have introduced an entire system of institutions to build a democratic society. Among others, we have also introduced a public-important information trustee, who are now aiming to control the public's work by the state authorities. To be clear, I don't mean that 0.1% of the decisions the government makes and that can be declared a state secret. I am talking about 99.9% of government decisions concerning the daily life of Serbian citizens and which, of course, must be made available to the public. My question is very simple and is addressed to the public information commissioner, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic: is there any knowledge that the government is not announcing its decision? I beg of him a decident and clear answer. And I repeat: I don't mean that negligible number of information that can be declared a state secret. So, is there any information that this is happening? It's a very simple and short question. And when we get that answer, then this one, to tell a sad story about non-democratic Serbia today, we're going to have to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49683	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right under Article 286? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers: I inform you that he was prevented from attending the sittings of the People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic. Notice of invites to the session: I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, is on the basis of Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for a search into the details of the draft law. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13th agenda, apart from the proposing representatives, Diana Dragutinovic, finance ministers and Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, attends also Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Radina Todovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ružica Stojljković, Assistant Minister of Finance Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ljiljana Petrovic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance, Bogdan Popovic, Special Advisor of Finance and Nada Mirkovic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. We continue to work on the search in details of the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2011. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2011. A year. Before we move on to the amendment that in today's afternoon's part is to be the subject of our search, just to remind the MPs of the time available to us and of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The representatives of the parliamentary groups are: MP Djuro Peric, MP of the PUPS; MP Ivan Andric, MP of the LDP; MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS-JS group; MP Nenad Popovic, MP of DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Vlajko Senic, MP group G17 plus; MP Dragan Stevanovic, SRS and MP Zoran Masic, MP for Serbia. If the parliamentary groups wish to have other MPs for authorised representatives, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. As far as time is concerned, the PUPS has the time available for a total of time and the mandated president of the parliamentary group, as well as the parliamentary group Manjina; the New Serbia parliamentary group - the time of the parliamentary group has been used, and the time available is seven minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – the mandated representative of the parliamentary group has 10 minutes, and the parliamentary group has its total time of 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the SPS – the authorised representative has the total time available; the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica – the authorised representative has 11 minutes; and the parliamentary group 19 minutes and 30 seconds; the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia – the authorised representative has nine minutes; and the parliamentary group has 18 minutes; the parliamentary group G17 plus – the authorised representative has 11 minutes; and the parliamentary group has 24 minutes; the SRS - the delegation group has the mandated representative, the time group has the mandated time group and the time group is available. We move to the work of amendments that were submitted together by MPs Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic to Article 7 of Sections 1, 3, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 26 and 32. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49684	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is essentially intruding into a matter called the return of transfers to local self-government. Madam Minister, in adopting the budget rebalancing, respecting what the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities has asked of you and has been asking for two years, I also wrote the amendment in the 2011 Budget Proposal, because you did not do so at the request of 150 mayors and president of the municipalities. I would remind you that in early October of this year, a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, with the signing of 150 mayors and presidents of municipalities, submitted a request to you and the Prime Minister that transfers to local self-government be returned to the level since 2008. There were very correct ones, not even asking for an increase in the cost of living and inflation, but only those funds that were provided for two years ago in the budget, which were legally based on 1.7% of GDP. In the time of the crisis, in which we are still living, therefore, for the last two years, only local self-governments have been deprived of transfer funds and they are the only ones affected by reduced budget projections, unlike all other users or levels of government that have not suffered the damage. In 2008, local self-government had transfers of 40 billion dinars, to reduce these transfers by 40% in 2009 and 2010, to 25.7 billion dinars. In this way, all local self-government in Serbia has been denied more than 40 billion dinars, so for an entire one-year transfer, all local self-governments have been denied in two years. The letter sent to you by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities states that the municipalities in these two years suffered enormous damage, that the complete development and construction in these municipalities had died, that there had accumulated huge debts towards public enterprises and institutions at the level of the Republic, which at the time of writing the letter, so in October of the month, amounted to 17 billion dinars. These debts are probably much higher today. Basic functions of local self-government are at risk: heating, municipal services, kindergarten function, primary and secondary education. However, you did not provide for higher funds in the draft budget at a level that was two years ago. In fact, you predicted an increase of around 20% and in the draft budget that is 31.8 billion, which is far less than what the municipalities were supposed to get in 2011. According to the Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Serbia has been coming out of the crisis since the beginning of this year, it was already due to leave the crisis and to record the growth of gross social products, and therefore we are not clear on what the municipalities deserve to be punished for in 2011. In my amendment, I have reduced unnecessary costs on various appraisals, primarily in services, travel costs, purchases of unnecessary machinery that are not necessary at the moment and predicted that eight billion dinars return to local self-government, that two billion increase subsidies to agriculture, because it is a shame that the state of Serbia spends more milk than they produce in the 21st century. Supposed to increase transfers to underdeveloped areas for the whole billion, because it is a shame that only 150 million dinars are forecasted for transfers to the most underdeveloped municipalities and I have predicted 525 million dinars for paying back the backlogs of EI Nis, "Niteks" Nis, "Jasravac" Nis, "Gradjevinar" Nis and MIN Nis, because they have also been hit in the same way and left without work and without earnings, as well as workers from Kragujevac, who are on strike, and who are likely to help you leave in many ways as an incompetent government which has been cheating on the people for three years and have completely devastated both the economy and the economy of this country. The biggest pre-election fraud that came out the other day, acknowledging Minister Dinkic that he had to deceive Serbian citizens that he would receive 1,000 euros of free action to win the Serbian president. Of the 4,000 people that used to work at the flag, today it's 1,200, and those 1,500 who were supposed to be admitted, unfortunately, will not be admitted, so today they strike. So it's your devastating economy that completely destroys Serbia's economy. Therefore, I ask and invite all MPs from the congregation majority, who are 17 who come from the devastated municipalities, 47 MPs from most of them come from the district where the devastated municipalities are located, to vote for this amendment and return the transfer funds to their local self-governments, i.e. to return the information and money where it is most needed. Unless they do and raise their hands for such an amendment and transfer funds are returned, we will consider them fully responsible for further destroying local self-government and their normal functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49685	It was used four and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. On Article 7th, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Šormaz. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, you know that I have submitted a similar amendment to maltenes on every budget you have proposed. You've even said at one meeting that you'd be happy to accept it, but it can't be when I've defined the means to go for the Prime Minister, not the Vice President. Now I didn't bother to do it, but I simply submitted an amendment that I believe the three vice-presidents of the government, which we have, who are also ministers, have their cabinets as ministers, so it's about Mr Dacic, Djelic and Dinkic. At the same time, they are ministers, plus government vice-presidents and budgets, allocate funds for their cabinets, for a total of six cabinets, not for three cabinets. In a symbolic sense, when it comes to the government's reconstruction, when it comes to cost cuts, it's not clear to me what the two of them are going to need two paid cabinets for? That's what I was saying in 2008, I'm talking today, so there's no will to cut those three cabinets' costs, let alone the government's reconstruction, which is proof that one of the most ordinary empty stories we're hearing is. I didn't bother to say to transfer those funds somewhere else. It could've been reduced, you know, it could've been a smaller deposit, it could've been a smaller deficit, it could've been transferred. You see, every day there are some needs. "Freedom" from Cačka, last night was estimated to be 10m euros, such as the one that was so obvious last night while everything, while burning, was said to be a pity. Milk subsidies are needed. I don't see why this money would have been doubled Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, running around Serbia and making united regions based on these taxpayers, when we see that a man should not be trusted absolutely, here, he admitted it himself, repeatedly said here, first on RTS, that he knew when he said that citizens would get thousands of euros per share, that it would not happen. He went one step further yesterday in the daily newspaper "Today", not only did he say so, but he also said that Mr. Boris Tadic knew about it, but that he alone bears the consequences of that false promise and that he would now publicly say that it was actually a common promise, not just his, of course, unfulfilled, as well as all the other promises that were made. I think that, Mrs Dragutinovic, you should accept this amendment and that you should consult in your party, in the DS, because if you are really in favour of the government's reconstruction and cost reduction, let's start from this first step. Your only answer in your opinion was, which you gave to the amendment, to so provide for the Government Act and that the basis of that Government Act, you must define those resources. Identify three dinars, each of those cabinets one dinar at a time. Well, if you have to follow the law, and they can use those funds they have in the ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49687	One minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49688	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, almost all SNS amendments refer to the area of public spending. We think there's a lot of talk about reducing public spending, and the ruling set-up hasn't done anything despite the fact that there's been laws on reducing the number of employees here, and this time in the budget, we have an increase in salary expenditure. I think the index is 107, so it's 7%. How did you distribute that? Whether it means new employees or not, I don't know, but I'm quite sure that public spending in the state of Serbia is too great, that it can't stand the citizens of Serbia or the economy, that because of this and such public consumption and liquidity of the economy at the lowest branches, that today we have more than 60,000 companies in the blockade and may already be liquidated tomorrow, that thanks to such public spending and uncoordinated fiscal and monetary policy, you have a very constructive monetary policy with a large reference rate affecting the interest that the economy receives from banks. You have the waste of this government, thanks to the waste of this budget and a very low level of capital investment, and also to inflation of this kind of public spending and how it affects, because our inflations, above all, are cost inflation, that the expenditures of the state, the expenditures of the public administration, are too great for the economy to endure all this. As far as the amendment is concerned, it is some 93 million dinars. It's a staff management service, and it would be interesting for the citizens to know exactly what it's about. As I said, staff management, the National Council for decentralisation and the Office for Civil Society Cooperation. We believe that if we can save somewhere, no doubt in these divisions and how it can be saved. It may be our proposal to wipe out all these funds, quite restrictive and unacceptable to you, but it wasn't our goal to outsmart you, our goal was just to point out to the citizens of Serbia how irresponsible you are to the government, that at the moment when you raise pensioners by only 2%, when you have an average salary in the economy of 29 thousand, you have one government that throws itself in every possible place by means of which taxpayers and businesses are very hard to come by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49689	Thank you, too. A minute from the MP's time. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami submitted the amendments to Sections 3 and 20 together. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49690	Madam Minister, I don't see any reason and justification for the lower levels of government being allocated to higher funds for contract services than in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. By the way, this concept of cabinet organisation is inadequate to me. Too many vice presidents with all these advisers, let's just say, we had a recent example of the sale of Telecom and the strategy of technological development, the scientific development of the Republic of Serbia, where in total contradiction was what was written in that strategy and what was done. I don't think the Vice-Presidents of the Government can have bigger budgets, or higher amounts of services per contract, than the Prime Minister does. This raises the question – does the Prime Minister allow it? If someone else were Prime Minister, he certainly wouldn't have allowed someone else in the cabinet to use much more services under contract than he does himself. Now it's just a question – does someone want to use their function in full capacity or just partially? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49691	The amendments were submitted by MP Donka Banovic to section 7th and 20th of the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49692	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. In this sea of amendments that we are considering today and we are trying to convince the finance minister to accept some, I would ask him to pay attention to this amendment, because I think it's very good. In fact, I believe that the amount set out in the draft budget of 25 million is too large for the co-ordination centre for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and for grants to NGOs. You here predict 25 million and in your explanation you tell me why you do not accept and why you consider this sum important, which is that this sum is important for the activities of the service, and above all for the services of hiring external associates in the offices of the service. You will admit that this amount is too large and too large for these three cities to finance NGOs operating there, especially since projects submitted by NGOs are really funded from many other budgets, different ministries, so you have projects if implemented from the field of education, money from the Ministry of Education for certain projects is obtained. So these projects can really be covered by money and budgets from other ministries. I propose this amendment that you transfer 20 million dinars, 25th of what you have intended for this item, to the Development Fund. Why? Because we in the DSS, especially in times of crisis, really consider investment in domestic economy to be a priority for economic development. Support, which should go through the Development Fund, not through commercial banks, which have very unfavourable interest, are even the largest interest in the region, should go through the Development Fund. Since Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are in one district that belongs to one of the poorest districts in Serbia, don't you think that these citizens would benefit much more from opening new jobs, by helping those businesses still struggling to preserve jobs, so it would be much, much better to open at least some of those jobs promised in the election campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49693	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic to Article 7 of Sections 3 and 20 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MP Milica Vojić-Markovic to Sections 3 and 20. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 30 months of this government, this is the seventh budget that MPs are working on today and no one has been delivered in time. Why else is it the government's practice to deliver budgets at 5 to 12? Well, I guess because the 1400s and some pages we can't analyze properly, because if we got in time, we could see so much indifference, so much laziness in spending money where there shouldn't be any cuts on those who need to, like local self-governments, like undeveloped areas and things like that. Of course, we couldn't see anything in the budget or from that famous speech of the Prime Minister who came to us with four minutes here. The only thing we could conclude was that he mentioned the atrophied economy. The atrophed economy, however, always goes with the atrophed government. That didn't even mention it doesn't matter. We couldn't see anything about this budget from that letter to Santa Claus, which President Tadic sent under this plan of his 20-20, but we can see if we look at, say, as is quoted here by the office for sustainable development. I'll tell you what it looks like in the field. I'm from Valjev. It's the city that got hurt in that famous earthquake, which is still going on there, because nothing was compensated, and it was killed in the bombing. After 2000, Valjevo tried to recover by just entering into various agreements with factories that came from the side. That's how Valjev built a cooling plant called Burning. That's when it was agreed that Burning was going to build in Valjevo and a small home appliances factory, but what happened? A minister, whose name I don't have to mention, appeared, but I will mention some other things, so it will be clear which minister, who recommended "Gorenja" to transfer the factory to Zajecar, offering four thousand euros from each Serbian citizen to build a factory and hire workers there. Why Zajcar? Because there is a strong man there who will help him build some united regions. Otherwise, Valjevo does not have to mention the minister's name because the same minister also took the stocking factory, which was also to be built in Valjevo, Loznica. Why do you think Loznica? The same minister has a strong man there. As an MP from Valjev, I must greet Mr. Minister and tell him that Santa will not bring him Valjevo for next year, but will probably bring him about two percent in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49695	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Member of the 7th Sections 3 and 24th of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49696	Thank you. Madam Minister, who knows which time I submitted the amendment to this position of the coordination body? In principle, I've already said the basics. What's the point of the amendment? The point is to increase the position of the coordination body at the level of budget growth, while maintaining the level of social protection compensation we had in the 2010 budget. This draft budget has cut it dramatically from 80 million from 2010 to 26 million for next year. It's from an opportunity four times smaller. In general, not knowing the problems of these three municipalities we have seen in a moment and in one of the amendments of counterpart Donka Banovic, where these municipalities are said to use funds from other ministries. That's not true. I've been trying here for a few years so these municipalities don't use funds from other resistors. It was something from the NIP, but not significantly, but not from a position from the Ministry of Education. It's impossible for schools in the area to get funds from the Ministry of Education. Just look at the Department of Agriculture, see the data. There are no favourable loans or subsidies farmers have benefited from this area. In fact, the coordination body was founded in the sense that because of the lack of capacity of these municipalities to monitor the competition of other developed municipalities, the coordination body would in some way compensate for its inability to follow the trend of development and not lag behind, as it lags drastically behind a republican average. I often say here that the most underdeveloped municipality, the Presevo municipality, is somewhere with 14.8% of the Republic average, when it comes to corrected income per capita. So, about six times lower than the national average. In a situation like this, he's trying to coordinate with the body to fix the situation, which is going very hard. There's nothing going on in the business plan. No concrete results have been made. I'm surprised that the most sensitive position from social benefits has been reduced so drastically. There was no occasion, there was no previous analysis, there was no prior consultation with the presidency of the co-ordination body, nor with me, as the only MP in the area, and there was a moral obligation to consult with me after I voted in 2010 because the position of the co-ordination body was actually increased by 20% in order to create a political atmosphere for good co-operation. What happens now? It turns out that the increased budget has not been realised because the factal realisation through rebalancing, and in general, the situation is that we have remained at the level of 2009, that the growth that is scheduled is not realised. 7/1AH/VK11.05-11.15 We are now going to drastically reduce the most sensitive position for the municipalities. I repeat again, when a municipality and the most underdeveloped in the competition, at all state level, does not even have a folk kitchen, this is a dramaticly socially difficult situation, where the jury account of the Municipality's Red Cross has been blocked for years and that it cannot maltene any activity to perform for that most endangered population of that municipality. If we are now reducing that social benefits position so drastically, then what is the concept, what are we up to? If we move on, we'll see that there's again what I reacted very strongly last year, and then in writing I got the document that it'll change, and it'll change. Instead of what is in this year's budget in the explanation, it says that funding of projects in Serbian settlements in order to prevent the migration of the Serbian population, this formulation has been in the past, in the 2010 budget. I have been given a written view that this is transformed into a formulation that these funds are designed to prevent the eviction and migration of the population from this area. But again I see the formulation that the electoral one is preserved that machines and equipment construction facilities, the position somewhere now somewhere is believed to be 14 million, is left exclusively for Serbian settlements. Mrs Dragutinović, what do you think, at least the mixed one, at least to take care of them, but only the pure Serb settlements, and what do you care if there is a mixed one somewhere? What about those Albanian settlements? If it's about emigration and migration, I have data from the official census, and in that official 2002 census, if we compare it to 2001, you have this information that only these three municipalities, that the number of inhabitants in these three municipalities is smaller by 12,583 inhabitants. Of which is 10,887 Albanians, 1.131 Serbs and 575 Roma, and since when does it care only about one national group or community? I think this is a precedent, and this government proves that it hasn't transformed itself into anything compared to a series of previous ones, whose treatment and whose inadequate activity led to such a drastically undeveloped area. That they have long been neglected and that there is no way for Mrs. Banovic to open jobs when all those places of torment have been acquired, companies made during that earlier period failed and those privatised with hundreds of workers paused in a month by a mediator and a critic who, after privatisation, saved some 100 workers. Everyone else is on the street. I asked Mr Cvetkovic the last two times, and I asked Minister Dinkic – how could companies be sold for 2,500 euros and have 30 to 50 employees per company remain on the street at the time of privatisation, while the customers remain in a fantastic sum of 2,500? They can earn up to 500,000 euros from it, and workers can stay on the street and no one will take care of them. In my view, the main point is that if we have made the Coordination Body not to flaunt ourselves, not that we have more than other municipalities, but that we absolutely achieve some step with other also undeveloped municipalities through this Coordination Body, and if in more than 10 years we fail to do anything concrete in terms of the economic situation, the economic situation, if we fail to fix anything, the situation in schools in September has not been respected by the ministry's decision on free textbooks because they were not there. In all other municipalities, books for first and second classes are shared, and in these municipalities only school bags are shared, not textbooks. There's a lot to be done around the Coordination Body, but apparently it's going so slowly. Such difficulties and misunderstandings will continue to be a dramatic situation on the ground. Now the question arises – what is the government's concept of its own coordination body? If we've been through and before last year that an important position of social separation and social benefits if we've only managed to help through scholarships... (President: Finish, Mr. Halimi, you have fulfilled the time at your disposal. )......................................................................................................... The question is – what is the concept when social protection funds are cut drastically, and we have not done anything concrete in this plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49697	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49698	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Mr. Halimi, you've called me twice, so I think I should answer. I think the two of us talked about the same thing. You didn't seem to listen well to me when I explained the amendment. I was talking about those things you were talking about. If you have so much resources to work with, as it says in this explanation, external associates are quite large funds, and I suggest that most of these funds are directed towards the Development Fund to create new jobs, so that small and medium-sized enterprises in those three municipalities can get jobs in which they can work without distinction both Albanians and Serbs and Roma, then we are talking about the same things. You mention that these are the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. That's what I was talking about. You can't finance a project of NGOs, and you don't think of it as opening new jobs. That's what I was talking about. When I said that other ministries are funding, maybe it's not very much represented, I can't say how funded it is, but I do know, in particular, an organisation that is involved with foreign donors and that it has a successful project in the Bujanovac municipality when it comes to preschool. Even a new building was built with the help of the Ministry, but a large part and a foreign donor. That's what I was talking about and saying that these funds need to be rerouted to the economy so that all citizens of these three municipalities can get some new jobs. All the criticisms you made when you spoke to me, you didn't speak to me. You know I'm an opposition MP. I assume you've referred this to the finance minister who, part of this government that treats these three municipalities in such a way, treats this coordination center. So, Mr. Halimi, what you can do as an MP in that area and show your attitude and dissatisfaction is to say clearly and loudly that you will not support this budget. I'm not voting for this budget, and what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49699	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Please don't address each other directly because it's obvious that the thing is happening... Don't throw it away, Mr. Krassic. Please, from the first minute of this debate. You don't do anything else, you just throw it away. It's not right. Mr. Halimi has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49700	Mr. Chairman, I gave my opinion when Mrs. Banovic discussed it. In fact, I didn't just talk to her, but in general and in the entire congregation, because we've often had opportunities to hear honey and milk running there through the coordination body, as if these municipalities were the most privileged and, in that sense, in this sense, I tried to give it up. You mentioned, for example, that position for the NGO. If the content is well looked at, there are NGOs from this area, but there are many from other municipalities. So these funds are allocated by many NGOs from other municipalities, not just from these three. I agree that the overposition was for wages, either for those other literal positions, I don't know what it's called, when it comes to outside associates. Let it be under contract, that it is too much of a position and that it should be given far more importance to these positions where social issues and other important issues for the development of these municipalities and positions. But let me add, when you're talking about the Development Fund, that in the data for the previous year and back two, three years, there's a very rare number of companies that use credit. Subsidies and credits of this municipality are being used poorly. There's almost no level at all. Bujanovac's got something better, he's got some participation, but he's way below average, but he's on a level.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49701	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Sometimes pitching is useful, Mr. Krassic. Thank you. Mrs. Banovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49703	Thank you, I'll finish this cycle of replicas. Mr. Halimi and I are talking about the same thing again. I'm saying again that I, and he pointed out that, the Development Fund has practically lost its role. The Development Fund should help the fallen enterprises in Serbia, and 95% have liquidity problems, including enterprises from municipalities that we are talking about here today. We're talking about the same thing, that it needs more funding on the Development Fund and that this country needs to take care of its domestic economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49704	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Beard, do you want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49705	I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. We fully support what Mr. Halimi said, but in the sense that this budget and policy implemented by this government is causing chaos in all municipalities and in all areas of Serbia. It is not known how much will come into the three municipalities, nor how much will come in any municipality in Serbia. That depends on the current interest of the ruling coalition. That depends on the current campaign. When it's in the interest to raise pensions, then pensions are raised, and then after two months, pensions are reduced. When it is in the interest to finance Vojvodina, then it is said – we will adopt some laws, so when the time comes to adopt the budget, then none of it is in the budget. What's declared is not in the budget. There's not a single item in the budget that supports any of these things that are publicly presented as the government's success.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49706	It's been used for 50 seconds. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đeric and Aleksandra Ilic to Sections 3rd and 63rd. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on every draft budget so far, the budget law and any rebalancing, we have submitted, as a parliamentary group, among other amendments, an amendment concerning the Ministry of Education. Knowing the actual state of power relations in the government, I know you're not the portfolio we should be knocking on when it comes to amendments to the Budget Law. I know you're not in a position to accept them. But for the sake of Serbia's public, when this budget came before us, which found us ambushed, so now, whoever managed to cope, fought with it. I have a few things to say. First, the amendment we submitted, I publicly told you and Mr. Minister Obradovic, what I openly resented, had no right not to take more money for his ministry, especially those items concerning, directly, children and students. It had to, regardless of the power ratio in the government to vote. But the condition is what it is. A colleague here was talking about the vice presidents of the government. Looking at this budget and looking at everything that follows the promotion of budgets in public, we see these latest austerity measures that you promote with the global economic crisis, which promotes them, so it turns out that everyone here has to tighten the belt pretty much, except for the government. A colleague here said earlier about the vice presidents, specifically, of the three vice-presidents of the government who also have cabinets as vice-presidents and cabinets as ministers, which you say belongs to them under the law. The laws are written by people and let's change those laws under which they are entitled to such a waste of such a modest budget, when we have to pass the budget by law. We didn't go as far as this fellow who asked to be abolished, although we fully support it. We asked that the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the area of European integration, citizens of Serbia, please follow well. Only one of the items he spends, while at the same time spending another ministry, is an item concerning the funds of services under contract. No, employees, these are additional services under the contract of 13 million 440 thousand for this year. At the same time, in the Ministry of Education for the student competition, three million and 35,000 stand out, and that, for all students in Serbia. We know, especially educational workers what it means – travel, competitions, organizations, IDs of some children etc. Not to mention the extra black work that comes before and after. We asked only to take three million from this item. No, to eliminate him, but to take him three million and transfer to the Ministry of Education, at least for this student contest and make it at least six million, which is also insufficient. Let's just see that he has grains of goodwill. Of course he's not here. Listen to the reason for the refusal of this amendment – the amendment is not accepted, says the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European integration, services under contract, would compromise the smooth functioning of the cabinet, as the maximum amount of funds under this economic classification is defined for professional services. If he needs so many professional services, why doesn't he hire people? Or why are these not professional there, who receive salaries regularly? I've asked that once already as a parliamentary question and I'd like to get it and, understand this, Madam Minister, as a parliamentary question to which I want an answer and which we're going to publicly publish -- what are the services under the contract, specifically, in the vice-presidential cabinets of the government, by contract? Serbian citizens have the right to know what they pay for their funds. Furthermore, it is said, of course, to explain why it cannot go to the student competition – the students' competition is an economic classification of 424, specialized services, but the need to reduce overall public expenditures in line with the global policy, so we will reduce them, and here we cannot because, my God, we are going to make this strong important work that most citizens and do not know exists, in the narrowed balance sheet options of the 2011 budget, ensure the financing of competences in line with these possibilities. We will all act in harmony with the possibilities, and they will be in harmony with the needs. Their needs are great, and every day they get bigger. This demonstration of power that goes through this budget and through the violation of the laws that it has passed, the breakthrough of all possible terms, the adoption of a budget two days before the debate into parliament, is in fact an intolerable demonstration of power. It has always been seen throughout history as such demonstrations of power end. Serbia doesn't really need that. The government's going to fight for its positions and for its authority and for these winning chairs to the last citizen, doesn't have to worry so much about the citizens. This attitude towards citizens' resources is something that will not be able to endure much further. Compared to that, here you refused the amendment that you could and which, indeed, only to show that there are beams of light and tape of light somewhere in the government, compared to those we're going to swear on in some campaigns, which are our students. It's really the only bright spot we can count on right now. Believe me, the only investment in children is an investment that will come back. No, on these sides of the tycoon and other companies we declare and spread a lot of money with. 9/1MP/LjL11.25-11.35 We've seen how it ends. After all, out of these major economic recoverys, we have a lot of headaches. You now have 1,600 people who in Kragujevac, in this giant who needs to provide the whole world with vehicles, remain people without a job, and someone is paid to work these people. This country and these citizens paid for these people to work and they don't work. They're protesting. We've got some different arches. For example, it was officially said yesterday, I saw on TV, a minister and a state secretary come out and say -- that's because work has to be separated from work. All right. So, these guys were unemployed and they're gonna be out of a job. And I can accept that criterion if he's true of everything. And then the same minister in the government votes for judges who don't work but are unaligned, completely illegal, to receive a salary. Look, a judge of this same citizen costs about 160 grand and this worker costs about 35 to 45 grand and now it doesn't apply to these. The judges don't work and they get paid. Now I wonder, is this government, these citizens and these workers, are we all living in the same country, whose government this government is and who protects what interests? Or is it the easiest thing to demonstrate any moment of power on someone who has no power to resist it? That's what's the key question at this point. That's where the minister should give the answer. Do you speak in government at all, or just everyone comes with their own earthly need, and then it's built in as anyone can. We have listened to many amendments, some of which are truly rational and we have seen that this government will not accept anything, because what has been accepted is more than ridiculous. So the key and vital things in this budget are not protected. We can't keep saying it's a crisis. The global economic crisis cannot be an excuse for any incompetence and lack of goodwill, and I must say – and for dishonesty. After these events yesterday and after all that was heard in the public of Serbia in general about this speculative budget and this speculative economy, I'm just curious, that's what I asked Mrs. Minister last time and I don't expect an answer but that's the answer she needs to herself with, and that's the answer to the question of whether she would give one of these colleagues her own personal budget to deploy. Of course not. None of us would, believe me, when you look at all of them. They wouldn't give them anything. There's no daily need to get it for me. (President: Time's up. Please finish. ) I have just one more question for Madam Minister, other than the one you really need to take as a parliamentary question, to answer me about these services by contract, by specification, how they spend and what they have spent so far, and that is the real question for you – will you still be able to sleep peacefully after these and these big investments and these big ones on the street in January of the month after this budget adoption?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49708	Thank you. To Article 7. Split of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49709	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my amendment was intended to ensure the safety of pension payments to military pensioners. In fact, the budget envisions a regular payment, but I want to remind you that there may be a disturbance due to an existing debt to military pensioners who are now with a basic, which is about 4.5 billion, increased on the basis of interest and court fees to about 10 billion. Many have filed lawsuits, and they are now mostly arriving and being forced to charge. The bill, which is not foreseen in the budget, as is not foreseen in any way in which this debt will be recovered, is neither translated into public debt, nor foreseen in the budget, could lead to a disturbance in the regularity of pension payments. The government will shut up. It's a debt that's been created since 2004. The government has been silent all along, even though it was mandatory under the Law on the Serbian Army and will now be required under this pension system law to solve this problem. However, the number of lawsuits is piled up and they are now about 20,000 lawsuits. I think this problem could have been solved with far less resources than the state will now cost. For all this, I ask the Government to address this problem as soon as possible and to bring an appropriate act in which way this debt can be resolved. I have to remind you that I have information that in the last month, two days, there have been attempts and one law on turning this debt into a public debt, but, to the extent that it is due. I think such an attempt as it was, and it's a good thing the government didn't accept it, but the task force that was working on it was simply trying to solve the debt at the expense of the debtors and thus damage them. It's military pensioners. I want to remind you that the number of lawsuits is constantly growing, and this problem needs to be seen all over again. The charges were not filed by the only ones who could not bear the court fees and fees of between 50 and 70,000 dinars. So one dialogue is needed and this is settled. It can either be translated into public debt or not one correct way to know that this debt will be recovered. I believe that would have a positive impact on people if they didn't press charges and your expenses didn't rise. However, a silence of nearly six years has forced people to exercise their rights through court, and that seems to be the only thing left to them if they remain silent about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49710	Thank you, too. To Article 7. Split of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just amazing that in the last four speakers, two speakers have criticised and submitted amendments, and in the voting day, tomorrow, they will vote for the proposed budget. I want to say, on behalf of the SNS, that what we have been saying in this House on budget rebalancing for the current year, we have now taken the same decision when voting for the 2011 budget and debate on the budget, which is that this amendment insists on repairing the difficult situation in the military, especially the situation relating to modernisation, whose constant delay really leads to the fact that and when we buy funds, such as last year, in the part of telecommunications and ties, that is, last year, done, these are the means that, for example, in Norway have already been evicted in the early 1990s for telecommunications. So, the government has no understanding for subsidies in agriculture, why would it have understanding of this matter? But two amendments, the predecessor and I, have been submitted to this area of budget, or to this division dealing with Serbia's military. The justification for budget rebalancing was that they were not technically agreed, which was not true, and now it says that the defence ministry said that accepting this amendment would disrupt the defence ministry's plans. Gentlemen professionals, soldiers and gentlemen of the elders, the Department of Defense considers these to be sufficient resources for 2011. I have to point out once again that the position and reputation of the Army has been really important lately, and it's in first place right now. It's a very good thing because this people have a tradition and faith in the military, but it's only thanks to the situation that there is a greater number of employment in the military, that the sector is professionalised and that the receipts are safe in the sector. 10/1VS/CG11.35-11.45 This is the significant link that strengthened Serbia's military reputation in the past period. Mrs Dragutinovic, I say once again, in the agriculture sector and the situation within Serbia, which does not stop and no one reacts, you seem to be living elsewhere, not personally, but the entire government, making a strategy by 2020 that you are talking about, again some fairy tales, and Serbia's interior remains just a polygon for the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49712	On paragraph 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The word is for Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49713	We have submitted an amendment to correct an injustice, which is that lawyers who have been defended by official duty are paid their earnings for 2009 and 2010. Mr. Buha also spoke about this problem in budget rebalancing. We have now submitted the amendment. We were given the answer that the M.O.P. was found in large court proceedings and that he couldn't afford to charge. In other words, there is no money. Again, we see some State Secretary of Justice not coming down from the media, boasting how much the Ministry of Justice, or the state has managed to confiscate money from various criminal groups and criminals. A lawyer in a pre-criminal procedure, or on official duty, is needed over 99% of Serbian citizens, for the 1% of others are not needed, because that 1% has both its lawyers and its judges, including politicians. I can't believe you haven't paid for two years or this is part of the judicial reform, so you decided to shut down your lawyers and then leave only similar judges and then we get that national one—cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. We've really had a lot of calls from lawyers, to set up an amendment, and you try to do something, because you can face the fact that you won't have anyone to defend you when you get off the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49714	On page 7, 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Đuric to article 7 of Sections 17 and 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49715	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 requesting an increase in subsidies for agriculture, but also a more transparent and fair distribution of planned funds for agriculture. Last night, I was talking about the necessity of increasing subsidies in agriculture, because I think agriculture is Serbia's greatest development opportunity and it's the only business branch that constantly records growth and records surpluses in foreign trade. Unfortunately, Minister Dragin has not fulfilled his promise and has not fought for more significant increases in subsidies in agriculture, but instead announces the establishment of several agencies within the Ministry of Agriculture, which will deal with the shortage of certain products, i.e. by regulating this shortage, and these shortages are directly due to the small agrarian budget and the lack of agrarian policy in Serbia. These agencies will add to the modest budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, this amendment requires a clearer definition of the criteria for the distribution of these funds in agriculture, given that these funds are distributed under a special government programme, so that they do not come into a situation like this year that more than 2.5 billion dinars have been given to some fertilizer traders, not agricultural producers. It is necessary to clearly define criteria on the basis of which the distribution of these funds and subsidies in agriculture will be made, in order for farmers to obtain these funds. So even such modest means are not distributed justly. I would like to point out that the funds for subsidies in agriculture, in the surrounding countries, are far greater than in Serbia, so that our agricultural producers cannot withstand this pressure of competition and therefore I believe that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49716	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in Sections 17 and 20, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 17 and 20 of the amendments, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49717	Dear Presidency, I believe that, my colleague Palalic and I, these funds intended for municipal commissions should not be financed and that they exist in the budget division, because it is under the authority of local self-government. We really do not understand what demagogy it is that, therefore, local self-government will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, such as the authority of local self-government that the funds for municipal commissions should be provided in local budgets, but how can they be, when you took all their money, or most of the transfer funds you left at the state level, so you transferred that money to the NIP Ministry, so the NIP funds projects that are of local importance, some streets, and sewers across villages and cities, which are local self-government. They have nothing to finance, but you centralized and gave the Ministry of the NIP, invented the ministry, instead of the NIP Ministry funding projects of national importance, the NIP ministry is simply called and funding projects of local importance. For what? Because local self-governments don't have money because the state took all their funds, kept them at the central level, and now through some marketing tricks, we're going to give 20 million for municipal commissions, so we're going to raise taxes, because we're not going to return their transfers from two years ago to 40 billion, and as the law provides for 1.7% of GDP, we're breaking a conscious law, we're not paying back to local self-government, but in order to replace these missing assets, we're going to change the property tax law, so we're going to force local self-government, if they want bigger money, to tax the citizens. Who will bear the burden of these costs, both state and local? They're gonna put up with the citizens again, and that's insolent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49718	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendments to Sections 17 and 24. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49719	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, the amendment to Article 7 has been submitted not with an imperative starting point that it must be accepted and, of course, we will vote in favour of the budget, but through this amendment we want to draw attention to both the Government and the Assembly, and also to the public on certain issues in the field of social protection where we should otherwise regulate certain rules, norms in the use of funds for certain categories of population. The proposal refers to the allocation of funds to provide material benefits for single biological parents who themselves care for their children, children with special needs and with 100% disability. Of course, one of these categories certainly deserves special attention, although it was not possible to do this when planning the 2011 budget, it should consider that they may also make certain amendments and additions to the law that will come before us on social protection. Therefore, because of the need for biological parents to be with their children with special needs and disability of 100%, they are virtually impossible to do their profession or anything to do and to do. This prevents them from creating elemental conditions for normal functioning of their needs. If it is also about these single parents they are inevitably becoming social cases themselves and are unable to take care of their child in an adequate way with special needs without the help of the state, on the one hand, because it is a very difficult disability. On the other hand, they are unable to take care of themselves through the acquisition of funds for existence, for the provision of health care, for the provision of pension insurance, etc. So, these parents, the biological parents, who have children with special needs and who are raised in a family circle, they, in fact, don't burden the state with putting their children in adequate institutions, and that's already the gain, so to speak, for the state, because a child who lives in a special institution really costs a lot more if they stay in the family circle. The second fact, is also the principle of inclusion, which implies that in fact within the family there are the best natural conditions to include in as many adequate and appropriate environments for the development of such children and for a more humane life. So this is one moment that deserves the attention of this category that the state should turn in a different way to address these issues. We have, on the other hand, fosterers who take care of other people's children, who are not distracted in development or are distracted in development, so the foster parents take care of them, and there are resources and certain benefits, for example, benefits for the maintenance of users and others. The second category of income, which is the compensation for the work of the fosterer, which at a certain level is paid at a gross amount and which is a possibility for pension insurance, which is quite adequate. In that case, we have that foster parents are ahead of biological families who care about their children, and they actually do the same job. Of course, there's no criticism here in the sense that fosterers are privileged far from that, these children's foster parents should have all these receipts, which they usually receive. It may have to be improved, but this is about the same way that the state has to take care of biological families, which they keep their child in the family circle and care for. Then the argument that it is the duty of parents to do, is absolutely unacceptable and inadequate from the point of view that today they are in a modern and human society, actually about caring about children, and especially about children who are distracted by development, or with special needs, as it is more correct to say, can not be just a matter, a private matter or a matter of family or parent matter. What's essentially both a matter of state and society, as well as an old-fashioned and overcome realization that someone who used to say you know what my family cares about my business, my wife or as my wife says is my business and I can do whatever I want, or my child I can treat him one way or the other is my business. Of course, there are certain frameworks as far as it is a private matter of family, parents, family members compared to another member, but beyond those limits narrow, etc., is, above all, a matter of society, a matter of state etc. So, for these several reasons, it would be important to seriously consider changing certain norms, certain rules and certain laws that will put into a more humane position and family, above all, biological families that care for their children, and who have specific needs, in order to firstly stimulate these families to continue caring for their children, and thus create assumptions about the best possible conditions in accordance with the modern principles and needs of inclusion, that, first of all, the biological family takes care of such a category, that is, of course, of such children. Of course, with adequate help and adequate logistics, which, of course, is not just about what is a certain type of income. There can be more types of receiving, more help, etc. Therefore, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will insist on this issue in further our work, through laws that come on the agenda, through encouraging and asking the government to make these issues possible by regulations or by some other sublegal acts as soon as possible in an adequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49720	Thank you. Eight minutes and 55 seconds. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 7 of the 17th and 29th amendments, with correction, were submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 7th of the 19th Amendment, MP Milorad Krstin submitted. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Christin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49721	Dear citizens of Serbia, given this little time we have left for the parliamentary group, I will try to be brief and clear. Namely, the SRS is normal, we're talking about agriculture and subsidies, subsidies for agriculture, the SRS has always asked the budget to allocate 5%. Anything below 5% for agriculture means pushing agriculture back into the sun. However, you are still persistent and you stayed at this percentage of 2.5, as in 2010 will be in 2011. I can't believe that one of Croatia, I have to say, but one Croatia has almost two and a few times more separations for agriculture than the Republic of Serbia singles out. Unbelievable. Let's go to what's very important. Mrs. Dragutinović, here you are now, before the New Year's Eve, sending a New Year's card to all registered agricultural holdings living in Vojvodina. The card is another attack on the agricultural producer, on registered agricultural land, on the Serb steam, and that is the exorcism fee. You know very well that in 2010 it was remembered for the abundant rainfalls and for the floods that hit this Serbia, and for most of it also in Vojvodina. I just can't believe that you as the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the regional centre of Novi Sad, the Zrenjanin branch of Exposition, these are the original documents, I don't know how to show them here to let the citizens of Serbia see, it's amazing that you've sent out a disposal fee, and I'm going to give you just one piece of information. In the municipality of Zrenjanin in one populated town, in the Catastrian municipality of Taras, the commission, which was designated by the municipality of Zrenjanin, worked and found 606 hectares of water, and some 59 million dinars were damaged. Besides, you send these same farmers, landowners, irrigation fees. And that's not even enough for you, but you've found another extra charge, which is, by the way, some tax on the transfer of absolute rights. Even people who are no longer alive. You see, what you allow to do only to fill in the RS budget in a certain way, again at the expense of that poor Serbian pair or registered agricultural land. I don't know what more a branch of business should do that only brings surplus to this billion-dollar budget this year. What's he supposed to do without you increasing the percentage of your participation for a farmer in the budget without doing what you're doing now? This imposition and this card of New Year's and Christmas's with a story of exorcism fees. Exports range from two or three thousand to 200-300 thousand dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49722	It's been used for a minute and 40 seconds. To Article 7. Division of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, Mrs Dragutinovic, I am impressed with what enthusiasm you are leading the Republic of Serbia to ruin. In the break-in, Mrs. Dragutinovic. This budget is double-naked. Nothing. Respected Serbian citizens, the SRS MPs have proposed their amendments to reduce the 30 billion deficit, in a way that should show the government of the Republic of Serbia, that you, Mrs Dragutinovic, tighten the belt rather than the citizens of Serbia. Because of the public, SRS MPs have proposed to reduce the items of service per contract, specialised services, travel costs. These are items that serve us for that "left hand, right pocket" for election campaigns, to try to double-cross Serbian citizens and win the next election. We're convinced you won't succeed. As for the amendments we've submitted to this part where the Ministry of Agriculture is, we've only tried to increase the part where the subsidies are, by removing funds from those positions where the DRI is our irregularity. So, if they have found irregularities, they need to be punished in some way, and they need to increase subsidies that you more than clearly do not understand. We warned you a year and a half ago that there would be a shortage of milk in Serbia. You laughed, both you and the Ministry of Agriculture. You've done it in your own way. As you have destroyed everything in Serbia, so you want to destroy agriculture. Now we have come to the situation that you first imported milk powder, so we have warned you that our farmers surrender to the slaughter of the rock of a heifer, that it is from God grotesque, and you were simply deaf and silent to all this. Now you could have invested far more in agriculture, because you should be aware that every penny invested in agriculture is triple-returning and thus you would have reduced the deficit. You simply have no understanding and you are pushing Serbia into ruin. At the very end, since we don't have time, there's something else I want to say. Since the PUPS for these two and a half years, we have not heard that they have gone out and said anything to protect agricultural pensioners living on the edge of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49724	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49725	First of all, I should like to replicate to the distinguished colleague in the sense that the Committee on Agriculture, including the representative of the SRS, has clearly taken a position and is determined according to the solutions given in the budget. Your representatives have not taken the view of any of the specific applications provided for in the budget. Normally, the Republic of Serbia's budget is burdened with all the problems related to agrarian and solutions are well proposed. Normally, there will be problems in their realization, as well as in the implementation of all other programme principles given by the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture. When you mention PUPS, we were not once in all our performances, in all statements we clearly determined about the status of pensioners, or agricultural pensioners. It seems to us that the solutions that have been given, which are also the draft law, which will later be spoken of through amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, have given us the right to resolve and that our pensioners with enthusiasm have accepted the solutions that have been given especially when it comes to pensioners from a group of agricultural pensioners. I would like to point out that just in the course of the agreements on the adoption of this law, as a law that goes with a system law called the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a large number of agricultural pensioners have been released from the obligation to PIO insurance where they could not pay it off. You must also bear in mind that if something is entered into the budget, or pays the obligation to collect these contributions for pension disability insurance, then it is spent as much as it is invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49726	There's no basis for replication, Mr. Flea. On page 7, the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Ljubenović. First of all, Mr. Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49727	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, reporting on the basis of article 107. Mr. Stamenkovic addressed me directly at the beginning of his presentation. To speak to an esteemed colleague, I don't think there's really any point in not giving me the right to a replica, but okay. Mr. Stamenkovic, I didn't say that you don't advocate farmers at all, but that there is a way to help them, and now I'm going to tell you directly and how. You know that agricultural pensioners...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49728	Mr. Prelyu, you're misusing article 107, you're not actually talking about a violation of dignity, you're talking to the MP again. Please don't put me in a position to react differently. You didn't get the right to a replica and don't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure as a basis to actually replicate. Please don't speak any further. Mr Tomislav Ljubenović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, with this amendment, I have proposed the allocation of funds from the budget in a domestic way, not a wasteful way. I've proposed a downsizing on the contract of seven million 759 thousand. The result is a report on the revision of the 2009 draft law on the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia budget, which showed irregularities in the spending of the budget user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and related to the economic classification of 423 – services per contract. I propose that this amount be shifted to the same budget user, but under economic classification 451 and used for the purpose of subsidising farmers for spent inputs in agricultural production, for investing in the modernisation of machinery and equipment, milk and tobacco premiums, to carry out subsidies to support non-sustainable land and others. In his report, the state auditor found that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in 2009 concluded 18 labour contracts with 14 natural persons totaling 7m, 759 000 dinars. Under the Labour Act, the Law on civil servants and the Ministry Act, these contracts could not be concluded. Based on this, there has been an abuse of these funds. This amendment proposes that these funds, instead of abuse in the way I mentioned them, be used for subsidies to agricultural producers. It is well known to all how poor the Serbian farmers are, how long the state has been running the wrong policy when it comes to agriculture, and about the import lobby that gradually destroys our agriculture we have already talked many times, especially the representatives of the SRS. The adoption of this amendment would allow for a higher amount of subsidies to farmers without the use of money in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49730	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have mostly spoken about this division of 19, previous colleagues, I mean agriculture, so will I, or this amendment or our amendment, treat that certain funds are reduced in section 19, paragraph 420, 451, etc. You need to invest more in agriculture, but not layishly not professionally. Our amendment proposes that the budget in this area be allocated rationally, that there is no spending on purpose, that there is no spending on the coalition as long as it takes, as planned, and is that justified? We Serbian radicals know that this budget that you are today and today you represent is not as real as it should be. The needs and real opportunities of this budget are not met. Are you going to spend money on the IMF? How do you plan to get that money back and who's gonna pay that money back and when's he gonna get that money back? You're in power another 10 or maybe 20, or 200 days, you're leaving. Who's gonna pay back all that debt? Fight for saving. What do you mean you're going to do with this budget? Can't do that if you don't figure out where you are yourself? You're illusionists. We want to reduce your planned deficit. And this amendment of mine, in that sense, has been set up. Imagine how many agencies you have, management, NGOs, cut those numbers, and there are no budget deficits. You're still dreaming about new agencies in agriculture. The minister said he would form some other agencies to monitor some agricultural products that need to be harmonised with the EU. But you're being wasteful with this budget, 30 billion is a set of our amendments to savings, and we want these amendments to reduce that deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49732	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49733	The purpose of this amendment is to essentially increase subsidies and subsidies for agriculture. The Serbian Progressive Party, respecting the fact that this country must invest much more in the area of agricultural production, has proposed through this amendment that the funding for subsidies to agriculture is increased by 10 billion dinars and that it would reduce positions in the Ministry of Economy, regional development separately, primarily for the financing of the "Fiat", and we have proposed that these positions, above all, be given an economic classification of 621 that is the purchase of domestic financial assets, where for this year the total amount of 19 billion 780 million dinars is estimated to be more than last year. It is precisely for the Fiata project and within the finance ministry's division that 9 billion dollars have been dedicated. We believe that it is extremely uninvited in this economic crisis and in a situation where leading economists, the President of the State and Government say, among other things, that inflationary movements and inflation increases are due to an increase in the cost of food and, on the other hand, food on world markets is a curent price and this country can export much more than it has exported so far. It is our definition that this country should continue to fund the "Fiat" project, but to allocate much larger funds precisely for subsidies in agricultural production. Unfortunately, however, this amendment by the government has not been accepted and will most likely remain the amount that is budgeted and foreseen for subsidies in agriculture, which is 16 billion 815 million. When additional grants are added to some other positions, i.e. to the administrations of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is a circus of around 20 billion dinars for subsidies in the area of agricultural production. We think it's small. I would like to explain, since in the debate over the budget rebalances, the minister said she had not heard the right arguments for an increase in neither the agrarian budget nor the funds for subsidies. The first argument is the participation of agricultural production in GDP. He's between 10 and 11%. When you add the food industry, it's about 17 to 18%. The second argument is your promise that when you come to power, in the first year of government, you will provide an agrarian budget of 400m euros. You haven't accomplished that in the last, fourth year of your government. The total budget, with what is the Ministry of Agriculture's income, is around 300m euros. Furthermore, the argument is that the Republic of Serbia singles out at least per capita for agrarian and agricultural production, meaning, in the agrarian budget, a circus between 25 and 30 euros. All countries in the environment stand out a lot more. Croatia has an agricultural budget of 750m euros this year. I think this is enough. Not to say that an external trade surplus has been achieved in agricultural products, also an argument that this government and this state single out much more in the area of agricultural production than it has singled out these and previous years. I think this is just a few facts, which have been presented, enough to reconsider whether this budget should have been increased and the opportunity to vote increased. All representatives of the Association of Agricultural Producers, with whom I have contacted since the moment the budget enters the public debate, are dissatisfied. Today, he has information that representatives of the Vojvodina Association of Agricultural Producers are received by the cabinet of the president of the state. 14/1BD/MJ12,15-12.25 You take seriously their announcements of protests and everything else that can happen, and I think the opportunity to increase the total amount of the budget by the vote is, above all, increasing the funding of subsidies for agriculture. If these funds were small, I would point out in the case of the distribution of subsidies in the last year and read immediately, again for the sake of the truth, what it says in this budget on the distribution of subsidies is clearly on page 397 that by setting up an agrarian payment administration, most of the subsidies in agriculture are paid through the administration and I was just constantly claiming that the rights of subsidies, which will go directly to agricultural producers, is 16 billion and 815 million. It remains – and the measures aimed at the overall improvement of agriculture will remain in the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and for their precise distribution a special programme on use will be adopted. This is for those remaining three billion dinars to 20 billion, and this will be for the implementation of the programme of health care measures, professional agricultural services, the information system in agriculture, the financing of the compensation fund that must exist, as adopted by the Law on Public Storages, International Obligations, etc. So what agricultural producers are going to get directly is 16 billion and 815 million, and that's compared to the total budget of only 1.87%. What is financed and which should be financed from the agrarian budget and this year, i.e. in this coming year and the next years, they're so-called. direct incentives, meaning, regressing agricultural production. Last year, it was about 10 billion. So it's a regression of imput, artificial fertilizer, oil, seeds, and then, genetic improvement of livestock, milk premiums are also here under this position of direct incentives and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to overcome the problem of milk, has agreed to increase milk premiums and rebalances amounted to 650 million dinars for the payment and increase of premiums in the last quarter. That increase should be on five dinars. It was a one-and-a-half dollar premium. With these funds you've been planning to finance agricultural production, it's impossible to move milk throughout the year with a total amount of five dinars, because it's about a billion gallons of milk to die. Production in our country is moving between a billion and 500, a billion and 600. So two-thirds of the milk if it were to die takes over four billion dinars just for that purpose. Where are the other incentives? These are market incentives, export incentives, structural incentives, i.e. investments in the production of milk in the production of long-term plantations, orchards, vineyards. Further, investments in the improvement of livestock, genetic resources that we have, and above all in selecting measures and imports of breeding throats, with poor livestock policy, have led to significant reductions in breeding animals, particularly in cattle, pig farming and revitalising, and production is possible only through the purchase of new throats. It was certainly the basis for you to increase this agrarian budget on your own at the outset. If you have not already done so, then accept this amendment or some other amendment or suggest that the Committee on Agriculture or the Committee on Finance increase this agrarian budget and redistribute. I don't think it's too late. Please, Madam Minister, consider or possibly do something to make agricultural production in this country more resources than they were defined in the next year or what has been defined in these last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49734	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49735	Thank you. What all MPs have agreed on here, or a vast majority of MPs, is that the allocations for agriculture are minimal and insufficient and that this is one of the biggest problems for the development of the economy, in general, Serbia, for increasing GDP and for the better life of Serbia's citizens at all. Mrs Dragutinovic, 700 thousand people, 700 households live on agriculture. According to economic experts, Serbia is a country that can feed 80 million people. However, the state obviously has no understanding of all this, and for these reasons, it treats agriculture this way. That's why we have shortages, which is why the number of cows decreased compared to last year alone by the entire 110 thousand throats. That's why we're importing milk instead of exporting 10,000 tonnes of June, what is our quota for the EU, we've exported only one million and 1600 tonnes, or 16%. We are all now witnessing a public debate, where economists warn of the minimum, i.e. small funds identified by this agriculture budget, and that this may have devastating consequences for Serbia's economic development. This is how farmers and agricultural producers act, or protests in the coming months. I would refer to the explanation you gave for this amendment – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed redistribution would compromise the subsidy planned for the area of infrastructure. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposal already identifies additional funds of two billion dinars for the subsidy on agriculture, forestry and water production. First, it is not true that the funds are defined, Mrs Dragutinovic, as you have answered here, two billion, but a billion and 800. Second, what's here and what's worrying us all? These are huge subsidies just for the biggest losers. In the last four years alone, 44 billion subsidies have been given to the Serbian Railways. These subsidies have not resulted in any result, except, as we can see, increasing losses and the state has to cover it year after year. This amendment of ours is essentially a warning to you. We appeal to you -- you still have time to raise funds for agriculture, because we have agreed in the exposés of all officials from this government, MPs have warned you here, farmers warn you that there are insufficient funds. Increase the budget and accept this amendment defining four billion funds for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49736	MP Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49737	My colleague Radulovic said a lot. What I'm saying is that right on the agrarian budget you can see the absence of any serious policy in the economy, because if it weren't, then this government would have understanding of the economic branch that records and recorded the best export results this year. She would take advantage of the opportunity that exists at this moment on the market, which is that the prices of agricultural products are really high and would take advantage of, to say, market logic, and also economic and financial logic, that the dinar invested in agrarian in these conditions returns multiple times. They would respect the requirements of those who live from agrarians and develop those industries that rely on agrarian, i.e. to the processing industry. But in the absence of any serious policy, we have an agrarian budget that is slightly higher than last year, or this year. And we know what's going on this year -- a stock fund of 30-35% less. The result of such a guided policy is that we do not have milk in Serbia. The government's response to this kind of agrarian budget means there won't be any milk in the next year, and there won't be any meat. Therefore, we from a country that can record even more significant export results and that indeed the incomes coming from agriculture are respectable in that they have to be supported by the government, we will, unfortunately, in the following year, enter that period that some have already indicated, given that the government has been leading such a devastating agrarian policy for three years, that we will become a country that is dependent on food imports. It's a big shame and a shame for our country. Simply put, it is not fair to those who produce agricultural products. Why does the Government treat those who fill the budget in this way? That's the question you should be giving an answer to. But keep one thing in mind – if people have nothing to do with the hoarders, then they will come before the government already in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49738	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49739	The relation of SNS to this budget has already been demonstrated by the fact that we have devoted the most time to what is called forgotten agriculture and poorly targeted incentives, subsidies and relief. What is offensive to the public, to agriculture and to all of us is that this budget is called incentive and responsible and that it is within the balance sheet options. This budget is not part of the balance sheet options because it is based on skin stripping from citizens who have no place to pay, and it is forgotten – black market zone, gray economy, public procurement control, business space management, real property tax and corporate tax. It's interesting what real initiatives are for a budget like this and what's public reasons. While you're saying you care about agriculture, think about what the next news means. Now the owners of the tractor will have to make an annual registration under the laws that you've passed. According to published data, there are about 320,000 tractors in Serbia. They're used by farmers, so they'll have to pay about 1.5 billion dinars for registration under the new rule. When you know there is a need to register both combination and moto-cultivators, please look at the faces of Serbian citizens who expect agriculture to be a momentum of development. How about an explanation for the rejection of the amendment? The programme of subsidized sales of domestic tractors, trucks, construction machinery, production and repair of rail vehicles, buses, etc. is the reason why you refused the amendment. Let me tell you Serbian. This type of subsidy and tax relief has been annulled by the corruption that is largely created through these grants. Evidence: there are those who find it dangerous to speak directly. I find it dangerous to remain silent in front of these phenomena. In a report by the 2009 Independent Auditor Development Fund, on page 21, you have the information that the fund has approved a non-payment loan, to translate into Serbian, from 0% interest to 48 months with a grace period of 12 months to Litax DOO. This "Litax DOO" is actually a licking house that allows for the purchase of tractors, cars, trucks, etc. and on their site you can see that for contracts where the interest rate is subsidized, so we pay everyone out of the budget, they guarantee the payment of interest on the average rate of the National Bank of Serbia, and in the Government Regulation, not the law but the government's regulation, the conditions and criteria for these subsidised interest on consumer loans and for this financial lease for the purchase of permanent consumer goods in 2010, it stands, in Article 3, that financial licking is granted through the lease of the house and it is determined that the subsidized portion of interest is 4% on an annual basis, on an unpaid part of the lising for each year. In the position of the 4th member, the fund shall be determined to transfer the amount of interest from the previous position to the lease house in advance for each year. In advance for every year and a non-payment loan. I'd like to do business like this. Serbian citizens would also like to do business like this, to get a interest-free loan, to get part of the interest in advance at the annual level, so that in contrast, depending on the price of the euro or the dinar, you play well with successful businessmen. How many of these and these subsidized loans have brought new taxes, how many incomes, how many new jobs and how much of each invested dinar from the budget has been paid back to the budget, directly or indirectly, at least the dinar, what is the basic prerequisite? My dear Madam Minister, I only have one question for you. You know that Caesar said in time that only those who have faith, hope, and optimism can succeed and find what others could not. Think about it, I believe you're up to it. Try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49740	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, section 22. Chapter 450, under that number, is the Administration for the Determination of the Capability of Sailing Ships, Health and Joy Management. To have them there a little more sees from how much money is allocated to wages, supplements, compensations, etc. employees - 49,614,000. that might be an office, if this administration were to do its job, determine the ability of ships to sail, the number of employees would justify this 49.5 million figure, but when you look further, you see here under 423. - Services under contract 12,200,000 plus 25 million, a total of 37 million. I have submitted an amendment asking for transfers to other levels of government located in the Ministry of Infrastructure and amounting to 9,962,000 to 22,160,000 and for these funds provided for as contracted services to be reduced because something is surplus. Either there's a surplus number of employees in this health and joy management because they don't know how to determine the ability of ships to sail or there's an excess of this service under contract, because they're going to hire outside associates and that's what you gentlemen from the government have said unequivocally. He says so – The Administration for determining the capacity of navigation ships to carry out technical surveillance and professional and technical tasks in the field of identifying the ship's navigation capabilities, which requires the involvement of professional persons. Does this mean that there are no professionals in this administration, so they have to be brought on the sidelines? Also, we suggest that the funds are economic classifications, well this applies to this second part. That is why I asked for the amendment to shift these funds to transfer funds at other levels of government, primarily to local self-government, since we know that local self-government passed last year, that is, already in this and that last year, when the government simply decided to end the transfer of funds to local self-government. Local self-governments were found in unprotected grapes, so they couldn't even make personal incomes, salaries to pay employees without talking about maintaining local infrastructure, etc. As requested, you replied that in this case you must engage professionally, i.e. that this administration must engage professional persons. Something's too much. Mrs Dragutinović, see what's extra or this administration or these experts. These contracts are the best place to wash money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49742	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the amendment proposed a reduction of the funds for services under the contract to the budget user Ministry of Labour and Social Policy because the 2009 draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget showed irregularities in spending the funds of the mentioned user and related to the economic classification of 423 – services under contract and for the amount of 10,184,000 dinars. It is the conclusion of an act contract that could not be concluded. It is proposed to reroute this amount to the budget user of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, within the framework of the function of 40 families and children, and for social protection benefits from the budget. The State Auditor has submitted a report on the audit carried out and a number of irregularities have been identified in the contract service section. Among the users who have committed abuse is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The abuse is seen in the fact that the ministry has concluded a work contract relating to tasks that are identical or very similar to those carried out in the context of systematicised jobs. 10,184,000 dinars were spent on these contracts. I must again point out that a large farce was made by passing a law on the rationalization of the number of employees in the state and local administration because what was written in the auditor's report really confirms that it was just a farce. It is incomprehensible that more than 10 million are spent this way by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy when we know that an increasing number of Serbian citizens are able to address some kind of social protection. The daily loss of work has made many people social cases. Many families lost their jobs and two members, so no one works anymore and has absolutely no income. The situation of children in such and similar families is truly unenviable, and that is why, with this amendment, we in the SRS have proposed to shift 10,184,000 to social protection for families and children to increase children's supplements instead of spending on certain services under the contract that have been the unsustainable source of budget abuse for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49744	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49745	Madam President, the honourable MPs, Madam Minister, Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic, said in his express statement, quote, the final budget is socially responsible for providing the necessary state protection to the vulnerable layers of the population, he went out at the door and has not yet returned to the House of National Assembly, although it is a major debate on the budget. I have to ask the Prime Minister - did he mean the people of KIM with that statement? I don't think so, and I'll support the following data -- the 2008 budget for social security from the budget was 10,843,000 euros, the 2009 budget, at a time when he was finance minister, in 2009 when Mrs Dragutinovic became minister of funds was reduced to 1,183,000 euros, reduced almost 10 times, for 2010 to 1,058,000, and for 2011 it was proposed 940,763 euros and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy increased this item by 23%, which we have nothing against, but the Ministry for KIM proposed less by 8% compared to last year. With my amendment, I asked that in classification 472 – social security benefits from the budget be taken from 50 million, which is the item – the funds of the service under contract, where the funds were increased by 38% compared to last year, and the entire budget of social protection for KIM was reduced by 8% compared to last year. So it would be good if this amendment were adopted. If not, it's the government's relationship to KIM. To sum up when it comes to the KIM budget, given that very few words will still be heard in this hall when it comes to the KIM budget, it has been reduced by 44% compared to 2008 and 3% compared to last year. Transfers to other levels of government were reduced by 36% compared to 2008, and 8% compared to the past, and the rest of Serbia, I said I don't mind, the item increased by 20%. The social security fee from the budget was reduced by almost 11 times compared to 2008, and eight compared to last year. Citizens of Serbia, the citizens of KIM, honourable MPs, does the government of the Republic of Serbia need a comment on KIM territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49746	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of the SNS is another aspect of how we view the budget, and in fact this amendment reflects the need and is directed towards a saving that is related to public spending and a similar amendment we had in budget rebalancing, so in addition to the restrictions on public spending, we suggest that these funds from these positions focus on some more necessary resources. In particular, this amendment applies to the restriction, i.e. the Ministry of the Environment, directly to the Environment Protection Agency and the Environment Fund, where this amendment is in line with my amendment by my colleague, Mica Rogovic, to transfer these funds to the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of modernising and mechanising Serbia's Army. What we have proposed is a review and, within this agency and the Environment Fund, there are eight different agencies and directors. Perhaps all of these eight are just the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia and the Department for the Kolubar Administrative District, in terms of the resolution of the earthquake. Let me just point out that we have seven other agencies within this ministry – the Chemical Agency, the ionising radiation protection agency, the Republic Space Planning Agency, the Social Housing Agency, the Environment Protection Agency and the Environmental Protection Fund. You see, the government declares itself declared in the need of restrictions and savings. We only have seven agencies within this ministry. Let those funds, if not completely shut down, be reduced to one of the necessary minimum functions and restrictions, so that the remaining funds at this time of crisis focus on much more useful things. Obviously, all our amendments are directed towards it. In the budget rebalancing, and in next year's budget plan, there are no echoes and indeed there are no objectively positive responses from the government that, in addition to the declarative statements, show a practical part of the reduction of spending in the public sector, such as agencies of various and funds that, surely at this time of crisis, may also be abolished, and some are reduced to a minimum of the funds needed to finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49748	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49749	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Ms Dragutinovic, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I want to say at the very beginning is to remind you that another devastating earthquake occurred in September 1998, Mrs Dragutinovic, Valjevo and Kolubar County. What I'm trying to say is that we are long ago in 2010, and in a few days we enter 2011, we still haven't completely recovered and the consequences of this devastating earthquake that hit Valjevo, Kolubar County and Mionica. I also wish I had not submitted the amendment to criticise it, but to point out the need and necessity to allocate more funds for this purpose and for this purpose in this 2011 budget. Each of us has a desire to use the suggestions and suggestions that we make to get to a fairer distribution, to the best of budgets. Each of us has a goal and intensity to do something that is in the interests of the citizens and in the interest of, above all, the end from which they come. We know that there is no money and that the reality of this budget is to save maximum, and to spend as much as necessary and as much as necessary. When we submit such an amendment, it does not mean that we do not support you, Mrs Dragutinović, but we cannot fully support this redistribution of funds. We want to try to influence it, improve it and do something concrete. When, unfortunately, you have a fundamental accident and if the current government fails to resolve the full impact of this elemental disaster, then it is the obligation and responsibility of each of the next governments, until the consequences are fully and fully resolved, and in this case we are talking about in an earthquake that has hit Valjevo and Kolubar County. You know, the government and the parliamentary majority in Serbia are variable and that's democracy, but the relationship to issues that are vital, of fundamental importance can never and must never be variable. Savings at the state level should be priority. It's just, there are things you can't save on. Nature has taken away houses, housing facilities, residential buildings, and they expect our support. The funds are getting smaller from year to year. We tried to make some kind of assessment, and somehow we came to the conclusion, and you correct me if I'm wrong, that if we continue with this intensity when it comes to the allocation of funds for this purpose and for this purpose, it will take another 10 years to rebuild and resuscitate the effects of this earthquake. When it comes to the reasoning that we have received in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have to make it absolutely clear and completely precise to say that I fully agree with this first part of the argument, if it is understood that the intention to prevent or threaten something is simply not to endanger further realization and the completion of any project launched in Serbia. We believe that both the recovery and the result of the earthquake that hit Valjevo, Mionica and Kolubar County is our joint project. The second part of this argument is something that can be defined as a finding. So, what's been done over the past period of time. I want to supplement this with a few more information I've obtained from those in charge of reconstruction, which is the County Directorate for Construction and Reconstruction. The first damage assessment in 1998 was made by the municipal damage assessment commission, adopted by SO Valjevo and delivered to the Kolubar County and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The estimate was 6 billion 120 million 388 thousand dinars, where the largest damage to housing facilities was found to be more than half of the total damage found. In 2002, a total of 64,430 households in the Kolubar district saw damage to housing units at 11.2 billion dinars. I'm taking out the information I got from the Directorate. In total, about two billion dinars were invested for compensation on housing facilities, construction and rehabilitation of housing facilities and damages on public and social buildings required another 9.5 billion dinars. The allocation of funds was also made in the period from 2002 to 2010, which you, among other things, found in the reasons for not accepting this amendment, which can again be concluded that the compensation of the damages on residential buildings required to provide another 6.2 billion dinars and to compensate for the damages on public buildings another 1.2 billion. Following a decision by the Council of Directorates, which is in charge of rebuilding and constructing the destroyed facilities, adopted on 27 May 2009, in which the basic criterion for the owner to own one housing facility was found to have 1,200 buildings left for immediate compensation. I think you've figured that out, too, for which there's another 2.6 billion dinars to be provided. It should be borne in mind that there are no buildings here such as an auxiliary, weekend house, or houses owned by more than one facility on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Kolubar County and the municipality. It was also found that the completion of local self-government facilities required funding of 600 million dinars and the completion of the travel infrastructure of 500 million, as well as for electricity facilities of 100 million dinars. This is important to say, given that the means to complete the travel infrastructure and facilities I mentioned are needed to bring housing to function in the next period. I can agree with the first part of your argument, if I am so understood, because we really have no intention of interrupting any initial investment at the level of the Republic of Serbia. We understand the importance. The second part is something about the finding. What I want to say and what I want to finish is that the third part is missing, Mrs. Dragutinovic. Mr. Markovic, when it comes to the restoration of the facilities, Mr. Markovic, Minister of Local Administration and State Administration, made it very clear a few days ago that he highlighted and specified some deadlines when it came to rebuilding and resuscitating earthquake-destroyed objects, the elemental disaster that hit Kraljevo. It is, and of course, we support it and it is absolutely logical, completely normal, but I don't see that these deadlines are specified when it comes to the earthquake that hit Valjevo and Kolubar County in 1998. It remains to be restored around 1,200 houses. It remains to be restored to the eye, I think, 100 objects that are of social importance. Our question is very simple and simple – when will this renewal be complete? Thank you. 18/1MP/MĆ12,55-13,05
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49750	Six minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 7, the 28th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by Parliament member Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the Amendments 31 and 32, with correction, was submitted by the People’s MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 7, the 32nd Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mileta Poscurica. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Mileta Pocurica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49751	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment suggests that two billion dinars be removed from section 32. The Ministry of National Investment Plan, therefore, believes that in future changes to the number of ministries and the rationalisation of the state administration and that the rationalisation of the ministry is likely to be put out and that these funds will be transferred to division 28. The Ministry of Science and Technological Development. We want these funds to be transferred to the level of specialised services from which scientific research is financed, convinced that in this way we will not prevent the realisation of what was started to be funded by the investment plan, but that at the same time it will, and perhaps not reduce the importance of new projects in which the ministry would start, or at least it was given in the explanation, but it would certainly help to improve the number of those applying to scientific and research projects of around four thousand, out of which half of the new young researchers. Perhaps there is one of these people, one of these researchers, who will also have a theme of rationalising public spending, rationalising the state administration, although once we have the opinion of a science led by mentors, young people, led by capable mentors and people in the economy, who will know that the state is proposing a model, that it is not that the state itself politicians, the party heads decide what a model of state structure will look like, perhaps science should apply to that. It's not, in general, a problem that big when we have to take it off somewhere, we estimate that it's irrationally much, according to the budget projection, maybe it's a bigger problem when someone needs us to define it. Perhaps this could have gone to education, to make more individual positions, to get their money in greater amount and children for competition and teachers for education and more students who would have the right to master studies. Perhaps agriculture could have had more anti-urban protection missiles and, in many other places, could have been distributed, could have been from other positions, with positions perhaps in the millions, not in the amount of billions, vice-presidents of the government, one, the other or the third, etc. So it could be within rationalising the ministries themselves that some positions get more. This is our attempt, of course, unsuccessfully likely to increase funding for specialized services at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49752	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 7, the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 7th part of the 60th Amendment, MP Branko Ljiljak submitted. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government submitted to Article 7 of the 62nd Amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On page 7, the 62nd Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49753	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This is an amendment relating to health care and the budget composition of health. Here's the problem. Madam Minister, the problem has arisen in your explanation. I submitted that amendment by referring to a program marked 1803. You replied to me that funds in the budget do not exist for that purpose, referring to a completely different programme. Now I can't understand, Madam Minister, why you did this. Is it ignorance or is it reading the amendment? This program where you explain that there is no means and that it is not intended for that kind of consumption has a code 1802-12. This is true that these funds are intended for disease prevention programmes caused by tobacco consumption. It is clear that these funds are going where and what they are intended for, but this programme relating to funding, construction and equipment of health institutions, where the owner of the Republic of Serbia, has a completely different designation in 1803. Or maybe there's some other bad intentions about this, I didn't get it. If that's ignorance, that ignorance can only have one consequence, and that's your resignation. If it's a bad intention, the consequences can also be your resignation. You can't play with this kind of thing in the budget. On the other hand, Madam Minister, all MPs received in this large booklet from a thousand and some parties and a proposal for a financial plan of three very important institutions – the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the PIO Fund, the Republic Employment Office, and then we received notice at 22.25 hours that these financial plans had been sent wrongly and that you were sending us new ones. So I'm right to wonder if you even know what you're doing in the government? How can you send the wrong financial programs, the financial plans of the Republic Health Insurance Institute? Do you know what kind of money this is about? After all, why are you even sending us these financial plans? Can we as MPs influence these financial plans? We can't. So, one laugh, one circus that you in one general mess, not knowing what you're doing, or how you're doing, makes mistakes like this. The only consequence is your resignation, because you are completely incapable of running this country's finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49754	One minute and ten seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the amendment, National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 6rd Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, economic classification 416, which refers to rewards for workers employed in education. In fact, I asked my amendment to increase this amount multiplely, on account of donations to NGOs. All who work in education, and many are in Serbia, know that the last few years have not been paid jubilee rewards to educators and, unfortunately, not a small number of them have and died without waiting for what belongs to them under the law. This is really one serious topic for all the educators, and I put this issue in this same hall last week by the Minister of Education, Mr. Zarko Obradovic. Mr. Minister replied that this is an item to be carried by local self-government. We all know well in this House what the state of local self-government is. That's what all of our fellow MPs talked about when the amendments were related to the transport of funds. We know that all local self-governments in Serbia are denied for the huge funds the Serbian government should define by local self-government and simply local self-government are unable to finance material costs by primary and secondary schools, so electricity, telephone and other communals. That's why in Nis, in the city where I come from, all directors and primary and secondary schools and other educational institutions are being held by the head because of the enormous increase in costs that are growing from month to month, and of course, they are not able to regulate it. 19/1VS/MS13.05-13.15 This is a particularly sensitive topic especially in Nis, in a city where we know what the situation is in the last 15 years, related to public infrastructure accounts. We know that many families today have no electricity because of these unpaid bills, and I am afraid that in some future period many primary and secondary schools will not be able to carry out a regular teaching process precisely because they will not be able to pay electricity and other utility costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49756	55 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 7th part of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the 6rd Amendment, MP Radica Jocic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8(3) concerning the harmonisation and accounting of salaries in the state administration, i.e. with civil servants and deputies, and with the judiciary. In particular, paragraph 3 refers to the coordination and accounting and payment of salaries in the state administration, the state administration. The legislator proposes two ways of harmonisation, i.e. the 2011 increase. In this position, the 3rd is about one harmonisation, and this is about October 2011 on two basiss. One is the basis for a rise in consumer prices, and the other is half the average rate of GDP, according to the legislator's proposal. My suggestion is that this half changes to the entire rate of growth of gross social product. For what? Because salaries in the state administration and administration are well below the average in Serbia, about 20% lower and such low wages in Serbia, which are in line with the lowest wages in Europe, around 320 euros, until Albania also crossed over, Bosnia and Herzegovina there at some level, Montenegro 460 etc. Because of the public, we have to say that in the last year and a half of the crisis, wages have been reduced by 20 percent and slightly, 27-28% lower, expressed in euro. It was 435 euros, and now it's about 320 euros. That's exactly the point. Salaries have to go up. As a result, we ask the finance minister to change this rate instead of half the GDP rate to the full rate, which is a total of 1.5% of the 2011 profit increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49758	Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Arsen Đurić and Željko Tomic submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Pejčić and Milica Vojić-Marković and MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49759	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already spoken several times about the many illogicalities in the budget. One of those illogicalities is, this is what my colleague, Pejcic, and I have submitted the amendment to. So it's interesting that the government, without any criteria, separates civil servants and deputies who work in different administrations and different parts of that huge body called the government administration and divides them into first-class tenants, second-class and N categories. For this example, the Government of the Republic Authority Joint Affairs and Aviation Service sets out to increase salaries based on the results achieved by 15% of the monthly payment fund from the previous month and the other civil servants only 1%. So 15% to 1% is a pretty big difference and therefore DSS MPs felt that a 15% reduction to 5% is necessary, until fair mechanisms are established to reward all state officials and deputies, who obviously have a problem with not understanding this part of the government as much as they do important work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49760	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is unfortunate that we are talking about the law of the laws, and that is the budget, as the people say, it is a vessel of the housewives or arteries of an organism, and the hall is so empty, and they do not listen to this discussion by those who make up the congregation majority. In our troubled state, Serbia has had a hunger season, and that is the most important thing that needs to be pointed out here. The truth should be told as soon as, for the vast majority of citizens, the hunger season has taken place, and it will only take place in 2011, and this same government recognises 700,000 unemployed. We in the SRS claim that this is a far larger number, and when we take that social part of the budget and try to deploy an unemployed person's head-on-the-job, it gets about 15 euros on the average. What does that mean? Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, this means that according to the criteria of international humanitarian organisations, whether we like it or not, so many people are considered chronically or extremely hungry and poor. People down there, they don't know if they're gonna make it through tomorrow. For all of this in this Serbia where agriculture can make the main source of income, next to the fertile fields of Srema, Banat, Backa, Swords, Pomorava, and we have allowed all foreign companies to destroy this Serbian agriculture. Of course, then every normal citizen rightly wonders what kind of state he lives in and what kind of authority he leads. In this country, this hair and this policy, the political elite, is not discussing hunger, but discussing the statistics of these people as many as there are and doing nothing to help these people survive, and it would have to, because that would be a difficult downside for their political points. When we analyse the 2010 budget projection with a projected deficit of 120.5 billion, we come to the conclusion that the following content, that neoliberalism has failed in all countries, is just not in Serbia. Market fundamentalists who don't have a day's work experience in the economy have completely destroyed this country's economy, have done this job properly. It was harder to destroy the economy the way it was than to preserve it. They still have to sell EPS, Telekom, Roads and Water, they can go where they're headed a long time ago and that's in those countries where they have double passports. You're selling and handing over your own citizens without any consciousness. We have to ask a question and ask for an answer, how this authority works, and you yourself, Madam Minister, said there's room for borrowing. That's what you said in the media. It is based on two basic postulates – sell out everything that can be sold out in the country and take loans from everyone who offers you and from those who can, to fill the budget. The truth is defeated. The budget is charged from the last sale of the family treasure, from the loans that are being taken in vain, so our debts go to $35 billion. Can anyone deny this? Today, this government is in charge of four times more than this country was owed by Milosevic. 20/1DM/VK13,15-13.25 You have to think about it, especially you respected citizens, who voted for those who have all of you, simply boldly and rudely lied. Is it possible that you can't see the state of the country? Didn't we become a commercial civilization that rests exclusively on concrete monetary interests? We did. You brought, or you created a state with no love or pity but only dry and clear interests. No one from the government wanted to answer countless questions that we of the SRS have asked this government. It's a very simple question. If we sell everything out of what will our descendants live on, and how do you think this country will repay its debts? They have to come back. There's no lunch anywhere. You'll pay your pensions out of the loan instead of investing in the economy, so you can get out of the economy to earn a pension. You swear to the state and the nation and you won't admit that the state is in front of bankruptcy. The nation is extinct, 35,000 people die more every year than they are born. You who are in power as parrots every day in all the media repeat – lived European integration, lived Euro-Atlantic integration, and in fact it was another one – lived demagogy and fraud. It's really the state of this country. Finally, you and some of the government were saying that we still have time to borrow, which is insane. According to the projections of this budget, you make us more prepared than ever to steal money from taxpayers. That's known, by the reputation of the Lou Street gangster and that's true. You don't have to admit it, but Serbia is in grave danger. It's the worst scenario possible. Answer us and the citizens what is it called when someone deliberately destroys and undermines the economy and sovereignty of an independent state? What's it called? It's high treason, respected citizens. Our duty and tradition from the SRS requires us to introduce you as a true patriot in warning of a regime that spreads lies, untruths and the end of the crisis. Our analysis suggests that the crisis is entering another much more dangerous stage. Experts are warning. In mid-2012, a major break in the global financial system is expected. We are expected to have the biggest blow in 2011. Well, for God's sake, it's next year, and we're talking about next year's budget. The only thing that we can hear from you from the government and the president of the state who is only strutting Nero, satisfied with his looks and doing nothing else, is that the EU is at all costs...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49762	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49763	With this amendment to Article 10, I ask that Section 2 be deleted and the Government says – if attitude 2 were deleted then Article 10 would practically not exist. Then the Government forgets that the next item of the agenda is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System and that something similar exists in Article 1 of that Law on Amendments and Supplements. Let those who follow what's written be entertained. There's this nonsense, there's a illogicality not to use any other word, but the citizens of Serbia need to understand that this member of the Budget Law and the amendment law of the Budgetary System Act should regulate the situation when those incomes that belong to and when they are reduced to you, and when a big hole appears what to do. The government says - then we'll set priorities. Priority number one is enforcement of legal obligations. Let me tell you right now that's not true. First and foremost, they will meet these ministers, these dosovic governments are obligations under contract, official travel, and everything else that is some of their programming or discretionary authority. They're boasting that 10% can be spent freely. First, it will be their priority, because that is why they are in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the first priority were to meet the legal obligations, then this country would never owe anyone. She wouldn't owe to lawyers or communals, or pensioners, or social contributions, or other obligations, and they wouldn't owe local self-government, and, behold, they don't even believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49764	Two minutes. Thank you. People's MP, please take a look at a member of the Rules of Procedure who defines how much time the MP has available to explain the amendments. He's got two minutes. National MP Zoran Krasic argues that our two-minute timer does not work in European time. If it made any sense to ask for a check, if it was a harmonised timer in European time, I'd do it. Two minutes is two minutes. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zoran Shami submitted together to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49765	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Tomic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(3), which, as the proposaler wrote, reads: "if the beneficiaries of the budget do not make the additional revenue set out in Article 7 of this law, the appraisal established from these revenues will not be carried out on the burden of the budget." We believe that this should be changed and it should be said this way – if the beneficiaries of the budget do not generate additional revenue, unless the reduction of additional revenue is caused by a change in the law governing the area of obtaining their own revenue as set out in Article 7 of this Act, the appraisal established from these revenues will not be carried out on the burden of budget resources. Why did we want to rephrase what the government wrote like this? It is simply because it can happen that the user is deprived of some income by law, and then the user is subsequently and additionally punished. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to exclude those users where the reduction of additional revenues is caused by a change in the law governing the area of obtaining their own income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49766	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Rade Obradovic. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49767	Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I have proposed that Article 11 refers otherwise to the financing of local self-government, predicting that the budget puts aside the Law on the financing of local self-government. I suggested that this member be deleted. An explanation that the amendment is not accepted, because then it will change the balances in the budget. The basic thing that applies to each country's budget, which Mrs Dragutinovic should know very well, is that the budget cannot establish any new obligations nor can some new laws be established, i.e. ranges. All obligations and all expenses must be defined by some special law. This is why tax laws, VAT laws, property tax laws and a number of other laws go with the budget. Then why haven't we put all these changes into the budget and then we don't need other laws? For the simple reason that it is the basic rule of the budget, that the budget can only cover incomes and expenditures defined by other laws. It is not possible to put off the budget any law, especially the Law on the financing of local self-government. This is a classic one thing done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll apply the savings. It's a time of crisis and it has to be saved. It's not gonna save the government, it's gonna cut the transfer funds, so let's save the local self-government. We're gonna cut pensions, so it doesn't matter that there's a law that regulates pensions, we're gonna cut them. The time is very short for analysis and for one amendment, but I have made here, I apologize to Mrs Dragutinovic, because here is not a complete list but only the most characteristic examples, these are violations of the law with this budget and the behaviour of the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dragutinovic. If I'm out of time, let it go to the expense of an authorised representative. First of all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated by this budget and is being violated by the Ministry of Finance's behaviour. How's the Constitution? No law can impose a discriminatory right to spend money past the Serbian Parliament, all funds must be decided by the Serbian Parliament. The financing of the Vojvodina, we don't know exactly how much money is going to fund the Vojvodina, and that's a violation of the law. The Budgetary System Act is being violated and these are the most serious remarks of the DRI. The deadlines are over. The budget didn't arrive here on November 1st. It won't be adopted on December 15th. 21/1MO/MJ13.25-13.35 No final account, although the deadline was July 15th, although today is 20th and some December. There is still no report on the consolidated balance sheet of the state, although it was the deadline of November 1st. There is no internal audit on most of the entities, and this is being warned by the state auditor. No fiscal advice, and your deadline was December 12th. The President of the Republic and the Governor, even though they broke the deadline, delivered the candidates, and you haven't yet. You're violating the Public Debt Act and you're being warned by an auditor. You don't record everything you need in the Public Debt Act. With this budget, you propose that every guarantee that goes up to 200m euros, if it is urgent, does not have to come to the Assembly. Everything is urgent for you, and this budget is urgent. They're at the small door of violation of the Public Debt Act. Turns out that public debt and how it costs no matter what we give it guarantees. You have abolished the Law on Public Procurement for Construction Works. That's what the state auditor says, and most of the jobs that go to the government go without the Public Procurement Act. You are violating the Law on the financing of local self-government, as you have denied them the last three years 600m euros. You are violating the Law on Planning and Construction, and in the end you have forced the Assembly to break its Rules of Procedure and to violate the Law on the National Assembly, because it cannot comply with the applicable laws to adopt budgets and follow-up laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49768	One minute and 51 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49769	When the draft budget entered the debate, we could get information from the authorities that for local self-government this year, 25% more than those allocated in 2010. Here's another lie from the current government. What's the lie? In that you do not comply with the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government. In 2009, you denied 20 billion dinars to the local government in 2010 18 billion and 700 million, and according to this budget, you deny the local self-government 27,5 billion dinars, a total of 66 billion in three years. For the sake of the public, I must say that each municipality has lost, if we turn it into euro, about four million euros. With these resources, each municipality could build one school, one children's entertainment center, could build two sports halls for schools, etc. Here, it's the activity of this government. What's more devastating? It is more devastating that these funds, which will place you in local self-government, will be paid into 12 wars. So, these funds, which are going to be 31 billion, will be further reduced, because in 2011, you announce inflation about 12 to 15%, etc. The governor says it will be reduced in the second half of the year in that relationship envisioned by monetary policy and financial policy for 2011, and not that it is 4.5 plus and minus 1.5%. Once again, local self-government won't even get what's scheduled...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49770	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49771	This amendment proposes a schedule of funds, additional funds for local self-government, and those eight billion foreseen for the previous amendment. For reasons of refusal, it is said that it cannot be accepted for reasons related to the previous amendment, which has not been adopted. The reason for the refusal of amendments I have submitted to Article 7 is that it is not accepted for the reasons why those budgetary users of the Government, the Ministry of Justice, the economy, regional development, etc. would be at risk of financing the laws of established functions. Does anyone wonder if the laws have put local self-government functions at risk? The Minister doesn't care about that. So, all the things we're talking about today and these two days, Madam Minister usually doesn't hear or talk to his assistant. The debate on amendments comes down to a purely formality. So we're talking here, we're making arguments, and those who need to hear that to accept our arguments, they don't hear it. Madam Chairman, I'm surprised to hear what I'm saying. But, Mrs Dragutinovic, you can't escape the truth that you've cut 37 billion municipalities in these two years. You cannot escape from the truth that only municipalities in Serbia have suffered the burden of the crisis, that only local self-governments cannot finance their own development, which through the law are obliged to work, because you took away their funds, and that in various ways you wonder how you will satisfy everyone else to give them funding for what does not belong to them under the law. You gave everything that was taken away from local self-government to the Ministry of National Investment Plan, a ministry that is absolutely nonexistent and that has no reason to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49772	National MP Filip Stojanovic is registered in the electronic system. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The time available of the SRS parliamentary group has been used, so that the only basis can be replica or Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm asking you. I'm sorry, it could be an accident. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Zoran Shami and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Arsen Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49773	Like my colleagues, we have submitted an amendment asking to increase the transfer funds to local self-government. I won't repeat what my colleagues have said before. However, I would like to warn you that you are not making any more hypocritical statements in recent months about how the government's representatives advocate decentralisation, for even regional development, to reduce the differences in the level of development between individual municipalities and regions, and that in practice you are doing the opposite. So, for these two, two and a half years, as far as you're in power, you've denied local self-government by nearly 40 billion dinars and thus transferred a huge burden of crisis to local self-government, so that the vast majority of local self-government in Serbia cannot service the elemental functions that have been entrusted to it. With this increase in funds, a slight increase that has not reached the level of 2008, you will allow local self-governments to serve only basic functions, without being able to invest in infrastructure and other development projects. I think you should accept the amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group and to municipalities, if you really want to carry out decentralisation and if you are in favour of balanced regional development, transfer the funds prescribed by the Law on the financing of local self-government, pass a law on the return of property to municipalities and implement fiscal decentralisation, because that is the essence. This is how Serbia's decentralisation is done, not how you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49774	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49775	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jovan Palalic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 where we asked that the funds identified for local self-government be increased from 31 billion to 800 million to 36 billion and 800 million. Why did we ask for this exact number of 36 billion and 800 million? So many, gentlemen, MPs and Madam Minister, had local self-government when led by the Serbian government by Dr Vojislav Kostunica. However, in the past two years, this government has managed to remove all funds directed towards local self-government by 40% and thus show what it actually thinks of decentralisation. In addition, the government does not fully respect the laws it has passed itself, as it is obliged to direct 1.7% of GDP to local self-government, and it does not. The best evidence, I said how empty the story is and how lying Serbian citizens are when it is said that this government wants to implement Serbia's decentralisation, is exactly what local self-government is taking away the funds they were given and needed to carry out tasks entrusted with the state. In addition, 150 mayors who wrote letters in front of a permanent conference of cities to their MPs asking them to stand with the minister and the government to provide funds for local self-government. They're writing for nothing. They obviously don't have anyone to write to. 22/1LjS/LjL13,35-13.45 Ministers say it is a crisis, and when it is a crisis, the laws should be broken, which is a scandal and what is problematic on the part of the minister who said it, but so it is. Unlike the government, which advocates decentralisation only in words, the DSS advocates very practical, creating an economic programme for Serbia's development, and has also created a programme of economic development for 21 cities and municipalities in Serbia and offers solutions in these programmes for the recovery of the economy in each of these local environments. The centre of the project is rights, true decentralisation, return of property to municipalities and even regional development. Read, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, read, Madam Minister, learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49776	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49777	Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, based on Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. In Article 11(1), the amount: "31,800,000" is replaced by "36,800,000". The SRS considers it necessary to provide greater funds for non-purpose transfers to local self-governments in order to achieve its basic functions. The objective of the amendment is to improve the work and position of local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, if the ruling majority really wants to improve democracy in Serbia, then more attention must be paid to local self-government. This would show how capable local authorities really are. In addition, the SRS' position has always been to allow citizens to have the greatest and wider influence on local government representatives. However, instead of this model advocated by the SRS, the ruling majority, led by the DS, promotes devastating regionalisation. Regionalisation is a new step towards tearing Serbia apart and we can compare it with the feudal society that existed in Serbia before the Karadjord revolution. The message is clear: Serbia's further feud can only stop the SRS, headed by Dr Vojislav Seselj, whose Hague shackles cannot endure much longer. The Duke will soon return to Serbia. That is why this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49778	The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49779	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, public enterprises and public agencies established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are infrequently stronger than the very state that founded them. Indicators of the force and power are in the following facts: in 2008, the profit of all public enterprises was 11.7 billion dinars, out of which it preceded Teleko with a profit of 5.5 billion dinars, the Post of Serbia with 2.7 billion, Nikola Tesla Airport with 1.3 billion, while EEMS and Srbigas totaled a billion dinars. The drop in profits was recorded in 2009, so all 16 republican public enterprises gained a profit of 3.7 billion dinars. The salaries of the directors of public enterprises, verified party personnel, party staff have been said a lot. It's not bad and do it again. JAT's, Aerodrome and EPS directors have 220,000 dinar salaries, while JP's salary is Serbia's railway director, the biggest loser among public enterprises, 219 000 dinars, while the salaries of assistants, deputies and directors of the public company ranged from 103 to 140 000 dinars. Also, in the period between 2001 and 2009, profits in public enterprises grew faster than productivity, so real profit growth in 2009, compared to 2001, is 72.6%, while productivity growth is alarmingly low and is 12.2% for eight years. Mrs. Minister, public enterprises in Serbia are states in the country, salaries are two and more times higher than other employees' salaries in the economy of Serbia, salaries by directors are rudely high, productivity is zero, and you are their member of 12. The draft budget law for 2011 leaves you the opportunity to renegotiate 50% of the transfer with them, to beg minors, to pray to the directors of public enterprises, to pray to those people you have appointed. The SNS predicted that at least 50% of the profits would be paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget within 30 days of the adoption of the final accounts for public enterprises for 2010. This amendment is also in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you of the development of the annual business programmes of public enterprises, which you adopted on 10 December 2009 and which was numbered 400-8141/2009. Because of this conclusion, your argument that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why a short payment deadline is proposed, which could jeopardise the ongoing indifference of public enterprises, does not stand, Madam Minister, fall into the water, because you, at point 6, of that conclusion, which you probably voted for, in advance, for these public enterprises, when making plans and programmes, have notified and obliged 50% of the profits to be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia only think about the liquidity of public enterprises and do you think about the liquidity of Serbian citizens when you added new taxes to them and increased existing taxes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49780	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. Before we continue our work, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that today's usual break of one hour will be set at 15.00 hours and will last until 1600 hours, and that we will be working after 18.00 hours, with the oral information of RTS that the session will be in direct transmission all the time. I can hardly estimate how long we'll be working tonight, but within the next two to three hours, there will be an assessment of it, so MPs know they're managing their working hours today. National MP Judita Popovic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49781	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 12, has been beautifully broken over by an outdated, devastating, retrograde economic policy of the government. I would particularly underline the fact that, how much is the fictitious solution of Article 11, with regard to increasing transfers to local self-government, it is as fictitious and this solution of 50% profit, as public enterprises are obliged to invest in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, since we know very well that public enterprises do not do business with profit, so that there is no profit, and I do not know how 50% of what is not there can be paid? I think the main problem with this draft budget is that the government continues with this policy of ethics, centralism and uncontrolled public spending. In doing so, agriculture is neglected, municipalities and cities have been neglected, and I think the government forgets that citizens are those who fill the budget, whether by creating new values, whether by paying taxes or by paying off the loans and guarantees that this state and this government are giving to cover the budget deficit. Therefore, I believe that one serious cut must be made around all of this, to be made public, and to say that the money is gone and that we can no longer talk about fiction and that the budget will finance everything and everything in the state. Obviously, that budget isn't enough anymore. If that line is not set, I don't think there's a future for this country, and no one is in favor of keeping one real truth quiet – that we're very close to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49782	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milorad Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49783	Dear citizens of Serbia, since we only have two minutes left, I will do my best and I would really ask you, Mrs. Dragutinovic, to look at me now that I explain this to you. In my previous amendment, I made clear and loud to you, then the SRS asked and always the SRS asks 5% of the agriculture budget. However, it has nothing to do with it. But I don't understand one thing, and I'm not going to understand, that the mayor of Zrenjanin declared an elementary disaster on 12.10.2010, with a commission that went around the field. You then send, your Ministry of Finance, the IRS, a notice of some kind of debt-delivery fee. For decommissioning what? For those surfaces that were under the flood and you want to take their money. How can you take that to a farmer when he has failed to perform neither the spring sow nor the harvest? Just explain it to me - how can you, after declaring the mayor's natural disaster, send individual agricultural producers a disposal fee? Answer me. This is now a debate in detail, after the end you will give the final word. Please, just answer this for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for the sake of individual agricultural producers, for the sake of that sick Serb pair.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49784	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49785	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the purpose of this amendment is to increase the percentage of the allocation of profits paid from public enterprises to the budget, and this is also part of our economic policy that we believe that in these particularly difficult times in economic and other terms the role of the state should be greater, because it is obvious that so-called. The invisible hand of the market is something that is contrary to real facts. We believe that this is something that is also applied in the West, especially in the United States, which you see so much, because you certainly know as an expert that the public sector in America in 1929 had 9% employees, and already in 1997 it was almost doubled and it came to 15.9%. So, even in that country, where this invisible arm of the market is allegedly applied, it is applied in practice to the contrary. We also believe that the state must also show in terms of public enterprises a kind of state and economic concern, above all, about Telekom, because you will admit, a company that has a net profit of 150m euros a year, is not something that should be so easily sold. In that sense, we are both prepared for the budget and for this amendment precisely from this book – The Public Sector Economy, Mr. Siglic, and you will admit that he is as a Nobel Prize Authority in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49786	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 12 proposes that public enterprises, public agencies and other organisations whose founder of the Republic of Serbia, by the latest 30 November current financial year, be part of at least 50% of the final account for 2010 of the payment in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the government obviously intending to facilitate this job to public undertakings and public agencies by predicting that this is done according to the dynamics set by these organisations. It is prescribed in paragraph 2 that the Management Board is responsible for acting in accordance with this obligation. The SRS considered and proposed its amendment not to be a board of directors, but a director of a public firm, or a public agency, and we believe that our solution is better than the Government's, because there is little point in imposing responsibility on the board of directors, since it is a collective body, while the director is an in-house body. In a way, it is in the spirit of our legal system that always an in-house body bears responsibility for what is in its jurisdiction, not the collective body. Otherwise, the director is someone who signs payment orders from a public company account, i.e. a public agency, and in his hands is the complete financial business of an organisation, so when he is already a tasker for the execution of a conditionally stated budget of a public undertaking, or public agency, we believe that he should also be responsible for the obligation to transfer 50% of the profits to the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49788	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49789	Madam Minister, the chairman, when it comes to saving, she must really show up in action. Recently, England implemented the largest reforms it had in the 20th century, which relate to savings. I think 70,000 people have been reduced in the state administration. I don't know if it's the right number, but I'll check it out, 71. Did we cut something in the state administration? When I talked about the last budget, a year ago, I'm going to quote here, that the ministry needs to be reduced, I said -- the thing is to cut the number of ministries by at least 10, which would lead us to a society of normal countries, at least by the number of ministries. I quote myself a year ago. Then, to make a clear division of the resistor, to reduce overlaps, because the more institutions deal with an object, the more likely it is to never be solved. This has been proven, especially in the case of infrastructure and capital projects, where practically nothing has been done because of overlapping resolutions, and when we have many ministries dealing with one business, in which case we come to the fact that no one is responsible. I'm going to elaborate this topic a little bit more through the following amendments, but what's most important is that no savings have been done, and even these last comments that if we cut down the number of ministries, it wouldn't mean any savings because the number of state officials would remain the same is also one kind of demagogy. It is not essential that the government shrinks from 28 ministers to 15. There's an important message that the government is showing that she wants to do something on her case. It's not about whether 28 is better than 15, or 15 is better than 28. It is certainly easier to manage 15 or 16 people, and it is not by chance that in all European governments the figure of 15, 16 is the most common. According to the management theory, according to the management theory, it's an optimal number for the government and for the resolutions that exist in every country. So to think, as far as saving goes, there's not a word in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49790	55 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49791	I'll extend around this savings. Also, by making this budget, virtually all ministries are in the budget and there are no services or expenditures united. If reconstruction occurs, I have no doubt that she will always be useful. I don't have any dilemma about it, because I don't think this way, that we have the biggest government, is useful to anyone. I'd like to add, as far as savings are concerned, if the budget is analysed, you've increased four billion dinars in rebalancing for cabinet furniture, for painting, for quoting, for new cars, for official travel and for living abroad. In the rebalancing, they were increased from 40 to 44, and we increased this budget by four billion more. I don't think the cabinets in the ministries are bad, I even think they're very good, but the state administrations are bad. It's not a problem with painting or furniture, not even cars are so bad. It's not about this number, it's about the principle, why now increase the isolation by four billion more in this division where we really don't see any excessive need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49792	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. That someone wants a word, too? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49793	Here's another government scam. In 2008, a general collective contract was signed in April that defines the rights and obligations of employers and workers. It was annexed in November 2008. In this general collective agreement, namely, certain rights have been given to workers who have not been employed by the state as an employer for two years, and in 2011 there will be a third year so as not to apply the provisions which oblige all those who have signed them to implement them. Why is it a scam? The scam is because you're using a certain legal form we've frozen the provisions of a general collective contract. There is no right to do so, either to apply or not to apply, or those provisions provided for in the provisions of the general collective agreement are practically applicable or not applicable. You don't apply them. Now I'm going to say what that means from the point of view of the state. Every employee, civil servant, deputy, judicial workers, workers in the state administration lose a month of 7,000 dinars, times 36 months, as it will not apply in 2011, about 2,500 euros has been lost by every employee of state, official or deputy. It's about huge resources. It was an obligation of this authority to comply with the general collective contract provisions and not to respect them. You tricked the workers. It's not the only scam. Here, a few days ago it was signed between the Prime Minister and the representative unions by an agreement establishing the fundamental rights and obligations of the PIO. You didn't bring this agreement to an end. You didn't respect this one either. It's about an unserious government and one authority that doesn't respect what you sign. On the other hand, the SRS is telling you openly about what legal regulations... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49794	Two minutes. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zoran Shami. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49795	I propose that Article 14 be deleted because this article is not clearly specified on the basis of which the costs of direct and indirect budget beneficiaries are paid. I believe that using or managing a business space is a very important matter and such a vague formulation can undoubtedly cause confusion when this law is applied. Speaking of assets, I'd like to add just one comment on new property taxes. New taxes have been introduced, but no word of tax exemptions has been mentioned for people who, for example, build houses or renovate, not to pay VAT. We can suggest what has been done in other European countries, since these models are often copied, that if someone pays tuition to children, that they do not pay taxes on that amount, that they are denied the income of citizens. There are many benefits that people are motivated to invest in the education of children, in reconstructions or in the purchase of real estate, and this must be made possible. Of course, wealth has to be taxed and, of course, those who have fairies have to pay taxes, but also give those who want their children to be educated abroad or especially with us that they have the opportunity to use it and that on that part of the funds invested that will be used first by the Republic of Serbia, the citizens, the people, they will be released from this obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49796	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zoran Shami submitted the 15th amendment together. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49797	As far as this article is concerned, given that the scope of the budget text is huge, I find it necessary to simplify it in those parts where the formulations are unnecessarily repeated because it will allow other MPs or in another budget to monitor what we are talking about. I'm gonna stick around for a little while longer on taxes. I think that one of the key things and problems in the tax system and what might be one big problem for the business in Serbia, that's the work on black, while a large part of the company fairly, honorably pays the workers, not in the envelope, pays as the law found. Still a huge part of the company pays black workers. Of course, that will always be and there will be even that in developed European countries, but those businessmen who are doing it today must also find them some model to allow them not to be drastically different if they pay regularly, honestly, honestly, and not in this way, in an envelope. In this way, I think they're hitting on that part of the Serbian businessmen, that part of the economy that does it under the law and creates totally unfair competition. I have to say that in some cases the state has made the wrong moves, not only talk about this government, but people only have to with optimal tax rates, effective payment, businessmen above all, to motivate themselves, to have the opportunity to pay workers by law, but also have to fight hard against those who pay their workers in envelopes. They make one big unfair competition for businesses that are legally doing their job, reducing prices on the market, denning and thus making normal business activities impossible for the people whose life it is. In particular, this is defined in some small businesses, and I think that there is a very important work inspection in this regard with regard to working on black or legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49798	It's been used 40 seconds since the authorized representative's time. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49799	On Article 15, which speaks of the fact that when establishing criteria relating to the lease of business space or movable things at the government's disposal, it has pledged to do so in accordance with market opportunities, and I, don't blame me, respected citizens, have made a small joke by submitting an amendment to the position of the 2nd member who was adopted and adopted with the argument that it was done precisely because of the arguments we wrote in the table. We wrote that we believe that the government is doing all its activities, under the assumption that it is in line with the opportunities on the market, so it is unnecessary for it to make a special commitment. Why is that a little joke? I couldn't believe the government would believe that we were really giving her credit for acting in line with market opportunities. In Article 12. Budget law ask public companies, agencies to pay you according to the dynamics set by 50% of profits themselves, and you have left public authority to earn hundreds of millions of euros and huge money to pay for their salaries, comfortable working conditions, etc. In Article 15, you say that you will rent what you rent by taking care of market opportunities, and when you provide vehicle registration regulations, there are tables of how much market prices are, for example, the value of the vehicle, so that citizens can pay tax obligations. Did you, in line with market opportunities, reduce citizens of any kind of giving to the state? So I don't understand your approach to the things you do to your duties at all. Ask public enterprises to grant you a share of the benefits not for what is theirs but for the entrusted jobs they do with the Constitution. To those you're renting a lease, there's something you're saying will be in line with the opportunities on the market. But that's why you're sending tax-debt notices to citizens in 2010, so I've been informed by the citizens of Novi Sad that since 17 December, the ranks in front of the Tax Administration on Michael Pupin Street looked like an infamous time of Jazda and Dafina. What happened? Citizens were informed of the state of the debt where they could not determine when the debt was created, on what basis, the amount of the principal, the interest, which is the time limit for the complaint, which authorities can complain about or on which document they can determine whether or how much they really owe. There's no other way but that you don't understand the circumstances of the opportunity on the market, except that you have one single need to sow money in a fresh state budget and calm the fountain's desire in such a shallow budget. However, I think that this is an understatement of citizens to whom you are, for example, a pensioner who retired eight years ago and got his health book in the meantime also competed in tenders as a firm, and now a taxpayer in the meantime lived completely normal as if he had settled all his tax obligations and at one point a tax administration appears who says he owes some tax debt that he has to pay without delay immediately after an astronomically calculated not-comfortable but well-comfortable water, but you don't explain how this man could have retired, how could he get a health book credit, a allowed minus by current account, how could he have participated in tenders and someone who ever saw a book about tax regulations could ask you a question that I've asked you today from this place, how could someone by such notice have gone from eight years ago for a pension of PIO? How can you ask someone to pay the debt of 2000 and say they're writing in the FIB and the other data on the shut-down shop at the time the tax regulations didn't even prescribe the FIB? What have your tax collectors been doing all these years? I'm not making a difference that the government inherited from this condition, which has inadequate software or quality data? Since it did not occur to anyone that at the end of each year 2001, 2002, 2003, in 2004, ten years, this authority in this or that form is performing its function to determine that these tax obligations have been created and to send that notice to citizens rather than just sending them a notice of the tax debt situation that can be paid without delay. So, the Institute of Warning to the Institute of Warning that someone has some obligation for you does not exist, but when you have to collect what is state property and lease you justify yourself by keeping in mind opportunities on the market and adopting an amendment that was actually a joke for us from the parliamentary group Forward Serbia. Unheard of.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49800	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49801	I'm going to add something about what I failed to finish when we spoke in principle and I'm going to add that about the unemployment that we have in the DSS is the main problem in addition to the slowdown, that is, the decline of domestic economy, in this budget, the reduced funds in the Transition Fund for the care of people who lose their jobs. I was even more defeated by the reduction in the resources allocated to the National Employment Service, so the total reduction in employment funds is four billion dinars. When you add reduced support to the economy and less subsidies to agriculture, I count when you came to power since 2008, since we have been together for the seventh time around the budget, it is enough to reduce redundancies for employment with a steady downturn in the economy and a constant drop in subsidies for agriculture, I believe that these three factors together can only worry the citizens of RS next year and I am sure that if we go against employment to each of these segments, against the domestic economy, I do not think that it can bring anything good in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49802	The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49803	Dear citizens of the 17th talk about the write-off of debts the Government wants to make extremely much of this year and in the public it is known conversions of claims based on which restructurings are going, and in the meantime we are getting a review report for 2009, where it is said that the auditor could not reliably determine the state of ownership shares of the Republic in the capital of legal entities, rivalry loans, those being renewed, loans from the budget reserves of earlier years, loans from privatisation funds and other short-term claims. What right do you have to ask you to re-instruct the Assembly about who you decided to save on the burden of the budget and that the budget is being lost twice when the budget is being lost by someone who has taken out of the budget as a loan or has not paid the tax obligations now remains a permanently damaged budget because it will not be able to return, when the budget is being damaged by the possibility of corruption by the discretionary right to choose and to convert loans into equity shares, if the 2008 audit has shown that you are 78.5 million euros, page 33. The 2008 audit reports, turning the shares into the capital of the debtors of NIS, KBC "Beige Hair", the Republic Health Insurance and Galenike Institute, have gone irrevocably, and now the state owns it at the moment when it talks about privatising public enterprises, are you actually doing what the auditor then said with the law and the law-based observation, the funds of the privatisation of social capital have been used to increase the capital of public enterprises? Can anyone explain what this means, at a time when you're about to privatize the most valuable company in which the state has an 80% stake in ownership? Can anyone explain to me what reasons you have to turn the companies you're lending into public? The public who make the revenues, you look to privatize and sell in the weather, below all costs, with a false estimate of the value of capital, where everyone looks to get married through a house that appears as a financial advisor, and here you are asking that you continue to do so exclusively and that you just inform the assembly about it. With the amendment of the Progress Group, Serbia, SNS, you are asked to come out here with a debate, why, who and how much to forgive the debts? Why does someone need to be restructured that way? No, to inform us, but to get a decision, because you have no right as an executive body to change the structure of capital under the law and any papers of discretionary rights or similar interests of political or any kind. You, you have no right to do so, as executive authority. You in this assembly have to ask for approval to do something like that, because in the meantime, from the report of abuse audits, until the moment you seek, again, an exception, no information has come that you have done so in any company. And this is really outrageous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49804	It was used two minutes and five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami submitted the 17th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49805	Just about the tax, I'll add. We have one big problem with this funding, because citizens and businesses owe Elektro Srbija for electricity and Serbiagas for more than 110 billion dinars or, to translate, about 1.1 billion euros. It owes EPS and Serbia. What is illogical, and in my view it is completely unclear that most of the EPS and Serbia's debt to gas, the biggest debtors are state-owned enterprises, institutions and authorities. Most of it. Half of this debt, one billion and one hundred euros, has been created in the last year, Madam Minister. So, out of billions and hundreds of millions of dollars, most of them are state institutions, businesses and authorities, and half of them have been created in the last year. It's unclear to me, if the budget you transfer these funds to users, why don't they use them in the right way for what they need? I think there's got to be a lot of budgetary discipline here, a lot stronger than it was. They get money from the budget, they have to spend it on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49806	The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49807	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 17. She filed it with an explanation that all of us are witnesses that for the government's mandate several companies via the Privatisation Agency and other state bodies have changed owners. Some of them are: PKB, RTB Bor, Azotara, Petrochemia, Serbian glass factory, Kragujevac flag. However, what is not transparent and what is not missing is the transparency of their business after the change in ownership structure. It's very important, and we don't know anything about it. This practice carries with it the danger of a planned takeover, but it also does not take over companies that face major problems in their business. Depending on the concrete decision of the interests of individual parties, which is very important, because it enters the magical circle of corruption, and corruption is something where you are on your own. Why do I say that? Although the fight against corruption has been declared, although it has been said to be quite a lot, although some tiny beasts are caught in the net, Serbia is constantly falling on the ranking list of those countries facing a major corruption problem. The independent authorities that the state has formed to fight corruption become its own antipod and become, the state authorities are no longer independent and they are the state authorities that are actually protecting corruption. Here's a very good example. We had the Anti-Corruption Agency, and a law was passed here in the Assembly which completely rerouted this independent agency and dulled its director's blade, Mrs. Zorana Markovic, who in one case only, in the case of this capable businessman, Mr. Oliver Dulic, who happens to be a minister in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, who earns millions by selling computers to public enterprises and state institutions, reporting his firm's involvement in the public procurement procedure at two and a half years late, three days after she wrote about it. The mention of the agency called the Anti-Corruption Agency changed its name to this one. Now it's called the Corruption Protection Agency. She says everything's fine here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49808	It's been used 40 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49809	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. This article discusses both direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources and a reduction, i.e. an increase in depreciation. In fact, it is said that these and such beneficiaries of funds, whose overall or mainly budget-funded activity, will reduce the calculated depreciation of labour resources in 2011 on a proportionate part of the funds provided by the budget and grants. With the amendment, we suggest that this last part of this position or part of the sentence be deleted from the funds achieved on the basis of donations. Why would donations be based on a reduction in depreciation? Sometimes donations should be an increase in depreciation, since not all institutions are social and many of them earn on a number of grounds, and yet they have donations. For example, at colleges and employee pay institutes, I would like to make a comparison between some of the budgetgoats and businesses for example, so let's say higher education institutions, or say 90% of those who are direct budget users have salaries that are double or triple the wages in the economy, so no one in the economy has the right to reduce depreciation. Now that I mention the word donation, Madam Minister, I think you've missed that, perhaps even in this budget, through some of these members to allow budget users to manage and ask for donations, to pay for the cost of their existence. That is, to pay bills for electricity, water, heating, etc., as every citizen in the Republic of Serbia must settle that obligation. As someone said here, half of the debt of these public enterprises that provide us with all this is waste to state authorities and institutions. They don't pay and they're, I guess, because they don't have the means to cover the so-called material costs that they're due. A few months ago, our president of the state was amazed that the building where he works didn't pay the bills, that he didn't pay the bill for electricity, water, heating for a year. On the question of journalists – how did you feel? He said he felt very sad, astounded but also sad. Yes, it was, it was a sad word. Serbian citizens are also sad enough to have to settle these obligations and cannot afford not to pay themselves a year's bill for heating, but immediately at that time, the company puts them in court. In order not to make others sad in those state authorities, they should be allowed to seek donations for expenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49810	One minute and five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zeljko Tomic and Parliament MP Milovan Radovanovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is the amendment the government has accepted. Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, the National Assembly will then declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49811	Let's explain to the citizens in these two minutes why the government has accepted some other amendment. The 20th said that direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget were responsible for carrying out expenditure and expenditure, in line with the legal basis. The amendment, which we as the NS-SNS parliamentary group have submitted, says that direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds are responsible for carrying out expenditures and expenditures in accordance with the law. So, to what extent is the government spoiled when you give her the right to exceptions and exemptions from the rules? Because of the crisis and the situation, it is to try to change the law, as the basis for spending money, by defining the legal basis as wide as possible. What's the reason? When we adopted, Madam Ministers, the Bill on the Budgetary System, you unwarrantedly accepted that you were responsible as the Minister for budget implementation, for which you cannot be responsible only because the Prime Minister, the Government, decide on this, many ministers have been transferred to the decision, even to the fact that funds are transferred. You didn't believe me then. Now we'll talk about it in the Budgetary System Act. According to that same analogy of responsibility for execution, you have tried to take off your responsibility and that one who, for what is not legally defined, spends money responds eventually to them, but not you. He can't. It is only Mladjan Dinkic who can take the results and place the blame on the other, while allowing others, but the minister, that is, now prime minister, as Prime Minister, and the entire government must answer to the citizens of Serbia for the legality of spending. I'm an economist, but I know enough that the legal basis is stretching and unequal size with the term law. Because the legal basis can also be an order, it can be a contract that is not based on law, and the cost of this budget, so heavily charged, can only be derived from the legal basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49812	Twenty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? It's an amendment the government has accepted, but you have the right to explain. He's in procedure, so you have the right to speak. Thank you. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 21st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49813	The amendment has been submitted in the same context as the previous amendment of the SRS, which I explain, is on Article 12. We are in favour of a stronger role of the state and in this sense we are calling on the Constitution in this amendment and we believe that the Constitution should also be included in the definition of this amendment, because we believe that at the moment of the economic crisis, if any, it is certain that the state should play a greater role in both the market and the transfer of income. I will appeal again to this book "The Public Sector Economics", which has helped us prepare for the budget and for these amendments, and you know that it is a famous book and that it is the Nobel Prize, and that it is used even as a textbook at the Faculty of Economics. You know for a fact that this book states that right in America, where most of the IMF's actions are coming from, which advocates the privatisation of all our public enterprises, which led to the fact that the banking sector is being sold, such as the Railways and the Amtrak company is owned by the state. So between the IMF theory and the practice applied in countries where the largest shareholders are there is a big difference. In that sense, we believe that everything should be adapted to our circumstances, and therefore we believe that this amendment has been submitted to that effect that the Constitution should be a guarantee of greater roles both of the state and of your ministry and of the entire government over the funds given to local self-government, Vojvodina and all others that are in that scale below you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49814	On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We return to the search for details, the amendment to Article 22, which was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49815	I'm sorry, I really didn't hear, I just got it from the end. Thank you. The essence of this amendment is to force the government to pass a special law on the national investment plan. In fact, this SRS initiative lives as long as the national investment plan lives. But you keep refusing for five years this initiative to adopt a national investment plan and a special law that will define certain rules, as well as for all other ministries and all other social, economic and phenomenal forms where the distribution of funds is carried out. The constitutional obligation of the legislator to do so is clear. The law on the budgetary system also requires -- you cannot spend funds that are not defined by a special law. However, you refuse to do so, but you have made a major shift, given that you have accepted certain amendments that the SRS has persistently invested on certain provisions relating to the implementation of the budget. Here, you've accepted the amendment to Article 19, to Article 20, to Article 22, paragraph 1, and we've been pointing that out for years. Don't repeat something that already exists in the legal system. That's good for praise. So also accept this initiative, pass a special law that will define the rules. We now have political volunteerism in this area. We have a prominent regional combination that goes into the organisation of the minister, which is organised by certain state officials who distribute as non-distribution is not allowed, according to the political system. Where they're ours, where they can, where they're not ours, they can't. You can't do that. Why do we have huge problems in regionalization? Exactly because you're doing what you're doing through this. There's no law because it suits you. There's no law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49816	Two minutes, thank you. The 22nd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nenad Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49817	One of the things that's planned to fill this hole in the budget next year is the sale of Telecom. First, let me say that we've talked a lot about it here in the Assembly, and we're going to continue because at this point, we're selling Telecom, there's not a single reason. First of all, Telecom is not a state-owned company. Telecom already has 20% of private capital, which is the Greek group OTE, which is otherwise owned by Deutsche Telekom. We've heard from some of your fellow ministers who were here when we asked them questions about how we're not even humanely strengthened to compete with big players on the telecommunications market, and that's why it's necessary to sell state capital in order for the state to benefit more from it. I think it's also an insult to this company OTE, Greek, which, I repeat, is owned by Deutsche Telekom and already has inside the board of senior professionals who have been with our people working on the board of directors, I'm not talking about the political figures they've been appointed, they can always be changed, but indeed in Telecom for the last ten years, there's grown a very good professional staff, people who can work in any telecommunications company. If we are only talking about these human potentials that Telecom has today, we need to think even more about the potentials that Telek will have to make available to future students, or those future graduates from Electrical, Engineering and other technical colleges, with a huge infrastructure base and with a huge telecommunications, or technological potential. The key battle in the 21st century will be in technologies and we don't have many technological leaders in the region, Telecom is one of them and give up today for the benefits that can be very short-lived because of billions and 400m euros, as much as is mentioned to be the starting price, so let it be bigger, it's just a one-time benefit that no one will get anything in the long term. I have to quote the prime minister and also the ministers who said that the money from Telecom will be used to build the infrastructure. What are telecommunications, but telecommunications infrastructure, as important as travel, as rail and other. In the election year to sell Telecom, I don't think you should say what's causing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49818	One minute and 20 seconds used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49819	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the only thing we can hear from this government every day is that the EU has no alternative at all. Is that right? Is that the right way? There's no discussion about it, there's no need to talk about it. The EU's true state of affairs does not know Serbia's citizens because there is no such information, and many MPs do not know what it is. The European countries, with different views on global issues, represent far more problems for the international community than they contribute to solving these problems. Alan Lansur, president of the budget commission, and I would like you to listen to this well, and to the European Parliament, says Europe no longer has the means to finance its policy. Economic financial problems, particularly the troubled countries of Ireland, Hungary, Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Romania, Bulgaria, have significantly reduced the EU's capacity to realise its strategic plans, which are enlargement to the Western Balkans, as regards Serbia, the Eastern Partnership for the countries of the former Soviet Union and the construction of the Nabucco pipeline. All this says is that the only salvation for the EU is a global partnership with Russia, as partnership with America has proved disastrous. Washington doesn't want a global competitor, it doesn't want the EU well, it wants a obedient partner. Why do we not openly say that Moscow, Paris, Berlin correctly estimated that it is time to build a strategic partnership, or alliance between the EU and Russia, and that the only way out is to lean on each other. It was a French proposal, which had a promising outcome. The EU is on a path that moves the world's centre to the east, to Central Asia, and when it leads across Moscow, not to Washington. Both Sarkozy and Merkel are also aware of this and make a strategic important step, lay the foundations of the future, and perhaps this is our chance just to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49820	Two minutes. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49821	Article 23 discusses how the imaginary NIP ministry's funds are allocated and those funds that have just been kidnapped from all local self-government in Serbia and given to one minister to buy both votes and the favor of certain local self-governments on the ground. Therefore, NIP funds are allocated in a certain way and it is said that the tasker for NIP projects in the area of infrastructure is expected to be the Ministry of Infrastructure on the territory of Vojvodina, which cannot be less than one billion dinars. At the same amount, no less than one billion dinars will be NIP funds, under the NIP ministry. I suggested that, in line with the adopted spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which was held in Parliament last month, which envisions one of the country's strategic commitments to work towards reducing regional differences, to apply it immediately in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that these six billion dinars as foreseen in the NIP for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, at least two billion are intended for undeveloped areas, in the areas of southeastern Serbia. I have been answered quite scandalously, I will read it – the NIP funds for the territory of the Republic of Vojvodina have been established in accordance with the Constitution, and the other funds are allocated by project and there is no constitutional basis for their schedule to be carried out according to the territorial principle. That's the explanation. What does this mean? There is no constitutional basis for the state to deploy funds and for these funds to accelerate undeveloped areas to develop. Either he who writes these arguments has no idea what he writes or this is something that tells us that those who have no constitutional basis, or who have no province, are working to build a province. For us, it is unacceptable and I look forward to voting on this budget, to see how many MPs from the ruling coalition coming from the poorest municipalities will support this scandalous budget that seizes funds from the poorest municipalities and deploys them in the Ministry of the NIP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49822	Thirty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49823	I'd like to extend this on Telecom, please only later for an explanation, I don't understand why the Ministry of Finance is running the Telecom sales process. We have the Privatisation Agency, but I don't know where it's from right now to get into the Ministry of Finance. If by tradition, "Telenor" was selling, or "Mobtel" was running all the sales process, the Ministry of Finance, at that point it might have been logical, but at this point I don't see any reason to be the Ministry of Finance here. What I'm saying is that Telecom as a big company, binds to itself small and medium-sized enterprises that are subcontractors, contractors. In that case, a large part of Serbia's scientific research potential has been exploited today, as Telecom uses their services, for the benefit of its companies, or owned by the Republic of Serbia in the most part. In the case of Telecom sales, we need to be very clear and say how all the world's companies work, whenever they buy a company in any country, it doesn't matter if China, the centre of scientific research, always stays in those countries where the basic company is. In this case, if there's a Deutsche Telenor, it'll be Germany, and if there's anyone else, there'll be another country. Of course, all mind, or scientific research, will develop in these countries where the new owner comes from. I think this will be a direct blow to one of the greatest potentials Serbia has, and these are electrical engineers, telecommunications engineers, even technical engineering engineers. In this case, their impact will be reduced, their ability to advance, their development will be reduced. Generally, a major blow would be done by selling Telecom. Maybe the people in the government who are in charge of this process, who initiated it, don't understand it, but time will show it. 29/1DM/LjL14.45-14.55 The consequences of science development in Serbia can be truly inconspicuous. It is small, I will repeat again, a company in Serbia that is technologically leaders in this region. There are few in the whole region, in all countries in the region, in Southeast Europe, you can point one or two hands at them. Telecom is definitely one of them. Selling that leader today, I think it's a huge mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49824	One minute and five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palilic. There's a word from MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49825	As far as public enterprises are concerned, there's been a huge opportunity in this government to sell, there's a possibility, I don't think everything that can be done now, it's certain that the sale of JAT would benefit. It's that segment where we're technologically speaking, we're lagging behind. I mean, we don't make planes. It is certain that as a service company in this market, JAT does not have as much technological potential as Telekom has Serbia. Of course, the sale of JAT at another time, when it was better times, when airlines were making money, might have been wrong, but today, when virtually all airlines in the world are working on the sustainability line and only a few of the world's leading companies are profitable, at this point JAT needs a strong partner, whether he's from Europe, India, Russia. But it's like no one in the government does. I think it would be much more useful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the economy in Serbia, if energy directed towards the sale of Telecom, an analysis, a concreteisation of the project, were directed completely to the other side, towards JAT. I'm sure in one period of a year, a year and a half, there might be a possibility of co-operation with a strategic partner. With the potential we have, with the credit resources that exist today, which may be used incorrectly, I think this potential could be exploited. One of the priorities of a future government should indeed be to address the issue of a strategic JAT partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49826	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49827	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. Proposal for a law – to be deleted. The objective of this amendment is to unnecessarily introduce legal provisions repeating the provisions on the power of the minister. The SRS supported the Ministry of Science and Technological Development's proposal to provide funding of 14.5 billion in the 2011 budget, as it included funds for the employment of 4,000 new scientific workers. The SRS has been telling you for years – hire young and professional, apolitical, young people, and you do not. You are not in the interest of hiring young and talented, but politically similar, with whom you can manipulate. Instead of singleing out 14.5 billion, you're actually reducing to 11 billion, which is a crime to young people. That's the case in other ministries, and you're pushing young people out of the country with a subsequent policy. The Committee on Science and Technological Development has supported the employment of 4,000 young researchers, and you will crush your policy project and the young will leave the country. From last night's stenogram, my speech shows that you're not just incompetent and unprofessional, but also lying, because you want to lie to cover up theft and crime. But it's a new sign of today's government. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS never opposes the authorities when they go through the employment of young people and their perspective. You need to know that 10,000 scientific workers are outside Serbia today, and 8,000 are in Serbia. This says that you want to destroy young scientific cadres, in fact, to politicise science and technological development and to put it in the service of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49828	The 27th amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami and MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49829	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the explanation for not accepting this amendment shows that the representatives of the government are not reading our amendments carefully. The aim of submitting this amendment is not to cut down on researchers in institutes. We didn't write that in any single letter. We wrote clearly – the aim of the amendment is to prevent the duplication of legal regulations. In an explanation, the government has made it clear in its 1st position that it is a misunderstanding, more specifically that it did not want to engage in any more serious consideration of the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary club. The said point 1 states: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Scientific and Research Labour and the Law on Innovation Activity of Economic Classification 424 – specialised services, expenditure for 14 programmes is carried out. This means that there are already laws that regulate this matter and the budget law does not need to re-regulate already regulated matter. Funds have been allocated to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, 424 - specialized services. The explanation explains what the purpose is, as well as for all the other ministries, and that would be that. The last member of the law is indeed unnecessary after-regulating already regulated. I would repeat the position of the SRS – we are for greater investment in science, which includes stimulating wages for people who are involved in science, because it is the only way to keep many young and educated people from leaving this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49830	The 28th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanovic, MP Zoran Krasic, a group of 22 MPs from the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia and joint MPs Nenad Popovic, Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. They have the order of application of the National MP Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Krasic and Dragan Stevanovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49831	Last year, Article 28 was introduced as an exception, so that funds can be directly delivered, transferred to local communities, through the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We find that simply inadmissible. In particular, the inadmissible reasoning given by the Government in the rejection of this amendment, where it tells us that a direct way of applying for specific means of implementing specific development projects should be allowed. It's not about competition for funds, it's about transferring funds to local communities directly, where those who talk about decentralisation are actually disabling hierarchical levels of local self-government, municipalities and the like. The principle of more efficient use of funds is desirable, my lords in the government, where you have the resources by leaving the money from public authority to some other government authorities. But in the case of the implementation of programmes and projects relating to local communities, this way that you can directly transfer funds to them means opening up a space for the political abuse of the funds that the budget has at its disposal, by where it is appropriate to do so through the municipality, and where municipal leadership does not correspond, for political reasons, to do so directly through the local community. That's really not acceptable, and I think you should adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49832	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has been reported. According to the information I have, it is an amendment in the same text submitted by two MPs from the same parliamentary group. I need the secretary general's help. Can both MPs get a word in this case? So one of the MPs can get word to talk about the amendment. In these cases, when amendments were submitted contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee, if it had been held, would have given me instructions on how to behave. Since he didn't, that's why he's keeping the National Assembly, not wanting me to make a mistake. Therefore, two MPs from the same parliamentary group cannot submit to the same member of the law of the same amendment. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative, you have more time at your disposal. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49833	Mrs. Komic, it all started a few years ago when local elections were scheduled in the municipality of Vršac. Then Bojan Pajtic directly financed the local communities, did not want to cross the municipality. So it was continued in the Ojaks municipality. Then Bojan Pajtic, in all rural local communities, made a memorandum until the election day. Since the machines were up until election day, the result will depend on what the election results are. He now received the post on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Markovic. Although, you say it here in one way – you can. You've come up with an epochal idea that they can transfer directly to the local community. It is my fault that I have not submitted the second amendment, that instead of the local community being a home council, the Government should be able to finish the work directly with home councils. I hope you'll go to the apartments next year. I hope that tenants in the buildings will be liaison officers between Mirko Cvetkovic, who is now collecting orders, and citizens who should show their wishes, as they expect from the government of the Republic of Serbia. How come people aren't ashamed of you? Is there a line where you say – aman, this is no longer possible under the Constitution, nor by law. You really think that when you have 126 you can do anything and everything. You're just proving that saying, which is really true, that paper suffers everything and everything. The question is how long and the paper can take anything and everything. Probably now that you take these donations from the EU, then the computers will suffer everything and everything, because it will be an electronic session of the National Assembly, so someone from Prcilovica will be able to vote, as you have now prepared a new counterfeit, because the Finance Committee has not been held. No Purics, they couldn't meet. Here, we get...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49834	Two minutes, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49835	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Minister has not, however, been very up-to-date today, sitting all morning and during the afternoon, as we MPs do. I will, as last in this series of MPs from different parliamentary groups, and by intervening to the same member of the budget, Article 28, to explain the positions from which the DSS came when it wrote this amendment. What scares us, I can't even say or confuse us anymore, is that you don't respect the Constitution or the laws that have been passed in this National Assembly. One of these laws is the Law of Local Self-Government. You, in article 28, who are directly listed here in the budget, directly violate that member of the Law on Local Self-Government. He says this - the City Assembly can trust all or individual local communities or other forms of local self-government to do certain tasks out of its jurisdiction, while providing for the necessary funds. It's very logical when someone from the government, some government ministry, works for the Department of State and Local Self-Government, sends funds from the Republic's budget to the municipality's budget, then the municipality can target those funds towards local communities, but there's a lead on how the transfer was made. So the municipality got some funds, how it's going to distribute them, that's her business. But if you don't have a record of the transfer of funds in that municipality by skipping the municipality in that series, so you're going to send funds directly to the local community, then you're changing the money coefficients that local self-government gets, certain funds from the republican budget. Obviously, you need to skip something that's obvious. For what? Because so you can directly abuse the funds that, in this year which is pre-election, are very important to you, because you have a situation where Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Djelic will not come to a certain city because local self-government is represented by people from parties that are not close to him. He says it publicly -- I'm not going to visit that local self-government, to disgust all citizens, but not to embarass those ministries and those state institutions that these things should sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49836	It's been used 35 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. This concludes our morning work. I'm setting a break of one hour and we'll continue our work at 1600 hours. The first amendment to be searched in particular is the amendment to Article 28, which was submitted by the National MP Marina Toman. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. On the basis of Article 90(2), I would like to inform the National Assembly that the government of the Republic of Serbia has authorised it to be represented at these points by Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Written information about this will be obtained as soon as the copying of the material is completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49838	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49839	An amendment submitted to Article 33. The bill and which, in essence, should completely amend and regulate one area, is indeed justified in economic and legal terms, because it is proposed that the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, under the Law on short-term bonds, should be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Public Debt Act, the Law on short-term bonds and signed and valid short-term bonds. So, the essence of the amendment is to break one bad practice, which is the delay in obligations, because when, thanks to this economic policy of the government, we are in the situation in which we are in the SRS, we believe that this would be the way to regulate this part. Support for something like this is also in the fact that only for the purchase of debt-based financial assets is practically going about about 70% of the 2011 budget. It's clearly something that's unsustainable, even compared to countries in the environment, where it's about two or three times less. That exactly what I'm saying is that in this year, which is calendarly on the run, so in 2010, Serbia entered with the achieved and unmistakable liabilities based on the service of an external debt of as much as 2.5 billion euros, which, for example, accounted for some 24.6% of the exports of goods and services in 2008. In addition, Serbia has registered a negative total foreign exchange balance of as much as $2.35 billion for the first floor since 2000, and it says a lot about what the situation is, regardless of what even under that Vienna agreement by the banks that have branches in Serbia, it has received a promise not to withdraw foreign exchanges from their branches, that it will ensure the refinance of the achievements of the annuities. It's clear that the loans were sought everywhere they could get...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49840	Thank you. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 34th amendment. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49841	This is another of the members of the Budget Law that starts with saying "extremely", and the Budget Law is crawling with exceptions written for the first two years, and then they become a rule, but in fact they have been applied as rules since the first day. Now that Riplia section "believed or not", the government is asking that the National Assembly grant it this law that it can decide to launch a guarantee procedure to ensure financial stability, external debt sustainability, boost exports, finance or refinance the liquidity of the legal entity, or to prevent or eliminate the consequences of emergency circumstances that could endanger the lives and health of people or cause damage to larger scales, amounting to 200m euros. The only emergency environment that can find justification and be an exception is this, that is, to prevent appearances or eliminate the consequences of emergency circumstances that could endanger people's health and lives, which we have proposed by amendment. Funding the liquidity of legal persons as an exception, the sustainability of external debt to be an exception, that means that there is no plan in the government, that there is no strategy, tactics, coordination of businesses and mutual co-operation within it. So it's inadmissible for you to finance liquidity, someone's export under the exception company, which is what you're saying in your explanation, or that you're thinking about external debt in that way. This only speaks of the fact that the Government, which adopts the mass of laws as a matter of urgency, does not actually plan its work in a valid way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49842	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Đuric and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the 34th amendment. Mr. Nenad Popovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49843	Given the dynamics of public debt growth in the period since the outbreak of the global economic crisis, any additional borrowing, which has shown this time of two and a half years, puts the whole country at risk. I'll just give you some information on the borrowing. In total, in these two and a half years, during the government's mandate, public debt rose from 9.5 to 11.62 billion euros. To translate it into percent, it rose from 25.8 per cent to 38 per cent of GDP. The critical limit for borrowing at 43% level. So, Serbia is now very close, by international standards, to the upper limit of risk-related duty. I have to say, in this year's budget, we're going to have to pay 34 billion dinars of the main debt and 45 billion dinars of interest. A total of 80 billion dinars are going to cover these debts or, to translate it into percentages, a total of about 10% of the budget will be spent on payment of debts and interest. The interest literally eats the budget. That is why my amendment is very specific, where I suggest that the government cannot make decisions on the debt of 200m euros without the Parliament's consent, that this figure be reduced to 20m euros, because this figure is much more appropriate to today's situation and circumstances in which we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49844	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Đuric and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49845	In the position of the 2nd member, the government will agree in 2011 to increase the number of employees in municipalities who have fewer employees than the law is allowed, and on a proposal from the ministry responsible for the state administration. We of the SRS have submitted an amendment and we suggest that "on a proposal from the Ministry of State Administration" be replaced by the words "on the proposal of the unit of local self-government". The government rejected the amendment on the grounds that it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure in the Government, because the government's proposals can only be referred to by the authority of the administration to which the material is concerned. What do we got going on? We have a case in place that the Government, the executive body, puts one of its internal acts above the rights of the MPs and the Serbian Parliament, to propose and adopt legal solutions, which are older than that internal act. We in the SRS believe that proposals to increase the number of employees in municipalities should give the municipalities themselves, because each municipality knows best the state of staff and the state of needs in its own administration. Speaking of which, it would be really interesting for the Prime Minister to answer the question - when will the application of this law on the maximum number of employees in local self-government units begin? I wonder - is there a municipality in Serbia that has reduced the number of employees since the adoption of this law? Did the Government happen to municipalities, at least one municipality did not reduce the number of employees, deprived the transfer funds above the basic number, and is there a case for the Government to reward a municipality for having fewer employees than the law allowed? I highlight the case of the Great Plan municipality, from which I come, where it is in the power of the SRS, where there are 50 employees less than the law allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49846	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49847	Thank you, Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the DSS has submitted an amendment to the 36th budget, and we felt it was necessary to delete attitude 2 and after the last words in point 1 to add the text "to which consent is given by the competent ministry". What exactly did we want to accomplish with this amendment? We believe that the Ministry of Finance is not the competent authority of the government to conduct human resources policy and decide on the human needs of the users. That is why we believe that consent to establish a working relationship with direct and indirect users of the RS budget should be given by the competent ministry, not by the Ministry of Finance, because it is also responsible for the organisation and adequate implementation of the staff policy of its bodies. It is an interesting answer that you have provided us with, where you have explained that you do not accept the amendment for reasons why authorities that do not have an obligation to adopt a staffing plan, employment is carried out in accordance with their rules and systematizations, which are often not in line with the number of employees, for which funds have been provided in the budget. You're telling us that what your job is isn't well done, because it doesn't match what's real on the ground. It's interesting, we think that the amendment that we've submitted is much better, that it's in favour of this budget, so if you're willing to accept it, we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49848	Members of the 36th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49849	This amendment shall apply to the same member. With the previous amendment, we have proposed erasing attitude 1 and this amendment suggests that you delete Article 2 from this article as well. It's the same argument as my colleague said. You say here that direct and indirect users of RS budget funds, which do not have a staff plan, cannot build a working relationship with persons without the consent of the finance ministry and on a proposal from a direct user. We also understand this member, and the explanation, where you point out that those budget users who don't have their own personnel plan or some development plan, where it would be new employment, then their rules disagree with the amount of money that exists in that register for that particular institution. However, we believe that the Ministry of Finance is not an authority that can arbitrarily, therefore, at the end of the whole process, when the user expresses the need for some person, and then a particular ministry has an understanding and it approves, that ultimately the Ministry of Finance, regardless of what the arguments are, says - can't, because we believe. We simply believe that the Ministry of Finance is not competent to decide. After all, one step back can be taken, so the ministry responsible for a particular area is that it should assess whether there is a need for some staff or not. However, when it comes to employment in institutions or users directly and indirectly from the budget, here is Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, he is probably also aware of how much abuse there is in the area of employment in budgetary institutions or budget users. To our parliamentary group, I can say freely, there are daily complaints from citizens that there is absolutely no respect for the procedure in a particular institution, in this sense that you have, for example, an example. Home of health, that's kind of my freshest example, where the director thinks he shouldn't give an ad, to hire a doctor in that health care facility. Then all those who came forward or who were interested in the place, of course, could not apply, there was no ad anywhere, called the Labour Inspectorate, from Belgrade to the municipality's labour inspectors. The labour inspector checks out, finds out the facts are true, and you know how it ends? It ends with that director being verbally warned. The person who was admitted to work here, to say illegally, without an ad, remains to work. This has a lot to do with the fact that in those health homes that have separated from the clinical centres, these directors are quite arrogant, and they act like they're spending their money, not the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49850	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49851	The competent ministry for granting consent to establish a working relationship with direct and indirect users of the RS budget has been defined in the previous member. It really is important to take care of whether someone should play a top role. What my colleague said is an absolute position of the DSS and there is no need in this member to regulate the area of employment only specifically for these two said ministries. Otherwise, employment in state authorities should make sure that the intellectual potential that exists in Serbia is best represented in state bodies as well. Schooling is a huge cost for the state, and in the future, when it comes to reducing public administration, parallel consideration should also be taken of the motivation of people working in the state administration, because some people are educated, and then trained in jobs, long-term work in the public administration, and these people become very, very valuable, necessary for the state. If we don't motivate these people, if they don't have the opportunity to get an apartment in a more favourable way, than they would get if they work in the economy, we'll also lose extremely important personnel in the state administration, and the efficiency of state administration personnel is necessary tomorrow and to attract funds from international organisations, from other institutions of financial and private, if we're talking about a public private partnership. The best example of this is those cases when we have highly developed municipalities and underdeveloped municipalities. One of the key differences in developed and undeveloped municipalities is precisely the staff that are in office. Undeveloped municipalities in Serbia today should not only be given money. If we just give them money, maybe they won't get anything. 33/1GI/MS16.25-16.35 One of the main roles of the state in the future, when we talk about decentralisation or aiding regions is precisely in the human potential. The Republic government must think about helping municipalities, especially underdeveloped, not only material resources or projects, but more importantly to find good personnel who are ready to work in these municipalities tomorrow, to raise the level of these municipalities. The municipalities will best raise the personnel they work in if they are capable and trained enough. When I speak only about employment in general in Serbia, that applies to the state administration, I will repeat this budget once again, the National Employment Agency's budget has been reduced. It's not a good example and it's not a good indicator, especially in this time. This agency, which plays an extremely difficult role, responsible, important for the future, especially young people in Serbia, deserves much more attention than it has received with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49852	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49853	The government has accepted this amendment and it is good, but it is not enough just to accept amendments and pass laws, it is necessary that the process of rebuilding houses in the Kolubar County finally be completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many families in the Colombian district in the municipalities of Mininica, Ljig, Valjevo, Ub, Lykovac and Osecina have welcomed this snow without a real roof over the main? It's been 12 years since the earthquake, and people live in damaged homes that are dangerous for housing. There are hundreds of cases. I'll only name one. The family house of Gojko Petkovica, in the village of Lalinca, the municipality of Ljig, otherwise the only housing facility, is so damaged in the 1998 earthquake, that now, after 12 years, when the earthquake in the King's house fell off ceilings. That's what the municipal commission found. Gojko Petkovic is the single father of three underage daughters, and in the household, next to them four, the old Gojkova mother lives. This is a disgrace to the state. I know the state can find a thousand excuses to justify this disgrace. The excuses could be accepted that in the meantime, thanks to government parties and their ministers, the state has not been robbed by tens of billions of euros. In this way, hundreds of criminals acquired so much property that they could build all the houses in the Kolubara district that were damaged in the earthquake, and that they did not feel it peopleally, but they kept it obviously more important than the poor girl from Mionica, Ljig, Valjev, Lajkovci, Osječina and Ubba, and tomorrow probably also poor people from the Kings. So that it wouldn't happen to me, even though the government has accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49854	Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49855	Article 41(4) provides that the Directorate for Reconstruction and Construction of the Kolubara District, affected by the earthquake, delivers a report on the spending of funds to the Ministry of Planning and Construction, and this amendment also suggested that the report be submitted to the Ministry of Finance as the most competent state body to control the budgets spent. As Mr Popovic said, if the rebuilding of houses in this region continues at the current pace, it will take the next 25 years, which is unacceptable for the people of the Kolubara district. To avoid it is necessary to do all things. The first thing is to strengthen the control of spending funds, and that will in some ways be ensured if the government accepts this amendment to the SRS. Secondly, it is necessary to increase the funds for rebuilding houses in the Kolubara district. Since 5 October 2000, several governments have changed. They all claim that there are no more funds for these purposes. In this regard, I will remind citizens of only one piece of information, when the ruling parties took over power in Serbia on October 5th in the republican administration there were eight thousand and several hundred employees. They're currently employed by about 30 grand. I suggest that Serbian citizens take a pen in hand or, even better, that these 20,000 party activists DS, G17 and other ruling parties multiply with salaries, contributions in five or six years, see how many hundreds of millions of euros have been spent on hiring party activists and try to calculate how many houses in the Kolubara district could have been built and restored by these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49856	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49857	Madam President, Mr. Minister, I simply wish that citizens, based on the wrong information, would not draw the wrong conclusions. In fact, when someone says that there were 8000 people in the Republic administration 10-11 years ago, they forget that there was a federal state then and that many federal authorities have since moved to a republican level. So Serbia is now an independent state and has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has its own military and many other powers, federal customs, etc., which it had previously. I don't think it's correct for the citizens of Serbia, to confuse them and give them the wrong information about how the administration is now multiplying because of the employment of some party people. The administration that the Republic now has is because of the fact that there was then the Republic Administration and the Federal Administration. It's all at RS level now. (Dusan Maric, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49858	There's no basis for replication. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49859	In this amendment, before I move on to the amendment, I would like to say something concrete about the budget itself based on what Prime Minister Cvetkovic brought here as an exposé. He said this budget is part of the development plan and said the budget is European. As for the European development plan, I have already commented that we are in Europe 14 centuries ago, and as far as the new development plan is concerned, I have to say that this document, which is called the new development plan, has never been adopted by the Government, and it has already started to be publicly presented by this new development plan, so it is interesting whether it is the government's plan or not, as the plan is called the new development plan from 2010 to 2020. The fact that I haven't read it is not a problem, but yesterday I read in a daily newspaper that the minister, the vice-president of the government, who is responsible for the economy, did not read it either. The most interesting thing for me was that this new development plan was presented by Prime Minister Cvetkovic and was represented by Vice President Djelic, who is in charge of European integration and science, but certainly not in charge of the economy in this country and I don't know why he represented him. If this plan was made by Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Vice-President Djelic, I think it would be appropriate for the MPs to present him correctly, let us see, to open a public debate because it is about the future of the RS. We're talking about some plan from 2010 to 2020. If the budget represents a document showing where we are going next year, what kind of policy next year, some development plan representing the prime minister and which brings it here to the MPs I think deserves huge public attention, but also a big discussion in this House. Personally, I would like to open a public debate on this document, but what worries me is that many worry about what will happen in 2020, I think we need a much stronger discussion about the economy, about the infrastructure, about what will happen in 2011 and 2012, and citizens are primarily concerned about employment. 34/1AH/VK16,35-16.45 In this context, I think it would be very useful to open up a public debate here in Parliament on a new development programme, to expose the arguments, to see the factors that were the elements of the creation of this programme, to face arguments, professionally and professionally, and that in this way we can analyse a concrete programme. In this way, as it is represented and as it is spoken of, and is not adopted by any authority in this country, neither by the government nor by the Assembly, I think we can lead into great error and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49860	Two more minutes. Mr. Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49861	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, there are a lot of dilemmas about this development plan, and I would like to help resolve these dilemmas in some way. Stojan Stamenković, Miladin Kovačević, Vladimir Vukković, Edward Jakopin, Natalija Bogdanov, Miroslav Zdravković, Sanja Filipović, Svetlana Mitrović, Ivan Nikolic, and in front of the Faculty of Economics and the Fund for the Development of Economic Sciences: Pavle Petrovic, Jurij Bajec, Boško Zivković, Mihajlo Arandarenko and Milojko Arsić. This is no official document by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but you can conclude from the names you read that one part of people is or has previously served as advisers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia or is currently performing this, and this is a model that offers a response that Serbia can change its growth model over the next 10 years, because we have all come to the conclusion that the existing growth model cannot ensure Serbia's stability over the next 10 years. Of course, it is a respectable document that this government can accept more or less as its own, but in any case it is the word of people who understand themselves in the economy and who have been doing it for a long time. Another document Mr Popovic spoke of was in fact the development model of a member of the ruling DS coalition, which, as far as I had the opportunity to look at, in many ways coincided with this post-crisis economic growth model. There is no government document that obliges the government to implement it in building the 2011 budget. Anyway, it is the one time that... Do you want to talk? Mr. Shormaz has a need. I'll do it for a while. It is something within which the Government tried to prepare the budget of the Republic for 2011, and I have to say that for that year we have an increase in the expenditure on employees and transfers to the PIO Fund in the amount of – employee expenditures were 184 billion, and now 196, transfers to the PIO Fund have been increased nominally 4.9% from 220 to 230 billion dinars. Business subsidies are less for 2011 than was foreseen by the 2010 budget rebalance, 3.1 compared to 4. It should be said that transfers to cities and municipalities are not 25% as said, but we believe that through the property tax that we will increase through this law, while arguing that the property tax is paid by all citizens, and not only by those who have reported the property, we hope that this will be done by local self-government, to meet the part that there will be more funds for local self-government than it was in 2010 by 25%. Depending partly on this document, the development strategy implies that in 2011 there will be 4.3% of the capital expenditure budget. We don't have that amount. We are missing between 11 billion and 20 billion dinars in our budget so we can say that it is a pro-investment scenario required by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by this document. We don't have any savings made on the side of spending. At this point, they weren't enough for the state to fully take that course and we hope that it would be different in the next period. As far as public debt is concerned, we can agree here, but we have to say that this assembly has adopted amendments to the Budgetary System Law, where we have implemented the elements of the Fiscal Responsibility Act which tell us that the upper limit for borrowing is 45% of GDP, not counting on obligations towards citizens who expect the right to resolve the problem of restitution. Legally, it is a restricted limit to which the state may be in debt. It's 45% of GDP, and I think it's a law that everyone will have to respect whether it suits someone or not. The pace of borrowing is such that in theory, we can very quickly reach that top level, but in any case, that upper level will have to be respected. What's a real fact is that at this point, it's an optimal budget. If we look at the amount of the 120 billion deficits left at the same level as in 2010, there will be 4.1% of the projected social product, and if we say that the nominal deficit is the same and inflation is planned to 5.8%, we can say that the state is achieving a real decline in the deficit in 2011. What's a fact and I don't believe that any coalition or party, if each individual wins in the next election, could dramatically change the structure of the expenditures of our budget. For 2011, we have over 50%, 32.6%, and 23.3% are employees' expenses. Until we make an internal reform where we can not count on these funds coming from the pension budget and other types of transfer funds and expenditures to be dramatically different than in 2010 or 2011. What we can do, and I'm talking about this growth model right now, is if the state achieves a growth rate of 5.5 or 5.7% in the next 10 years, the pension rate would be such that their participation in the budget would fall below 10% of GDP, and space would open that there is more funding in the budget for investment. We will go forward as far as GDP grows and beyond that framework certainly cannot find any new funds. In any case, we will support the draft budget law amongst other things that we managed to reduce by 300 million dinars of expenditure to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development to keep our additional value tax rate for hotel services to 8%, and because it was fully done in accordance with the fiscal rules implemented in the Budgetary System Law, but these growth strategies are not an official government document, but the government has tried to project the budget as it is said and as the people who have been professionally dealing with this business for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49863	National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49864	There is still time left for authorised representatives, so once the debate has developed to take advantage of that time now until the end. I can say that to the most extent I agree with Mr. Senic, my colleague, except in this last sentence. It's all true what you said, it's just that I don't understand how in the end you support the budget, because it's been quite honest and professional and it's against the budget, and it's no wonder that we're reading the same literature. It is a post-crisis model of economic development and growth in Serbia from 2011 to 2020. He is a much more serious document than Plan 2020. I have to admit that. He's quite realistic and in him anyone who's objective can see the difference between what the government says, what it does, and as a third thing, what it takes to do. So now we can start from the beginning. It is not disputed and these are more or less all MPs of the opposition said, not the controversial size of the public debt Serbia has. That's right. We are a poor country, how we shall live, we must be in debt. Of course, we should be in debt with as little interest as possible. What's controversial is, why is that money being spent? Is it spent on something that money will bring or spend in the future by throwing it out the window? In my opinion, as far as I can see from all the opposition parties, it's thrown out the window. In the opinion of the European Commission's representatives in Serbia on Saturday, if a billion euros per year in Serbia go into his pockets in public procurement, or he is in this country, Deger, "persona non grata", so because of that statement he must leave the country, or silence means that we are all aware of it. So that's what the representative of the European Commission said. We asked who was in control? Well, our parliamentary and adoption of the final account, adoption of the auditor's report, discussion of these matters. It's simple, the way democracy is actually controlled. We didn't get a chance to do that. We haven't even had a chance to read the budget that arrived on Sunday, and 1200 sides are under discussion on Wednesday. Well, the MPs do what they do, the more resourceful they write "wipe, delete, delete", so they buy time to discuss it afterwards. This is far from a serious debate. The 20-20 development program, so it doesn't take Mr. Popovic to read it, because he doesn't have any influence on our lives. He is a "pi-ar" as popularly said, campaigns that serve to endure by the end of the year, so he represents him and does not matter, representing him who was in Belgrade that day, what does it matter who he is. There's everything possible in that program and everything's gonna be great, but we're not gonna do anything in real life. This programme and any more serious economic programme, when it is read, should it go, if this country needs reform of the financial sector, the first and basic question is to look at what are the biggest consumers of our budget? One is a public debt. The first question is, how is this money spent? Is it spent on railroad subsidies like you're opening a train window, so you're throwing out that window? Is it given to "Serbiagas" who exist in the possession of half of Serbia, privatising other factories? We are offered an explanation because someone had no money to pay for the gas to "Serbiagas", Serbia separates part of the budget and pays subsidies so that the company could operate. So, what's the situation? To be clear, this isn't about the citizens who spend their gas. Citizens when they spend gas, if they don't pay for it, people come in black suits and cut their gas. This is about companies of losers, whose state gives subsidies to give and that there are why, and yet, when they don't pay for the gas and energy that they spend, then again we give out of the budget and there. The subsidies we have and exist here are false, it is not true, such as the level of subsidies in agriculture – of the 11.5m euros given in agriculture over the past three months, two-thirds went to the PIO Fund. These are subsidies to individual producers, and in order to obtain subsidies, they have to register, which means they pay their social and pension insurance obligations. They were then registered and now an individual producer has to give 70-80,000 a year. That's the value of the subsidy he got. So many countries in Serbia have. They don't have thousands of acres. They have a hectare, two, three. Multiply that by 100 euros and take away pensions and social obligations and see what a real subsidy is. She's not the one, she's a fake. One illusion created by the government, making such a budget, the only purpose is to maintain the status quo and survive until the next election, regardless of the consequences. All problems will be delayed for 2013, a year after the election. Then your problems will be a few times worse than they are today. No one has the right to do that. We warn you of that, no matter who does it then. No matter who does government then, no one today has the right to do this to the future government, and ultimately to citizens, such as the property tax. We've set an example for you, things are very simple. Taxes on property and excises, increasing excise duties on tobacco are a direct transfer of the burden of the crisis with, I don't know who at this time, the fastest and poorest layers of citizenship in Serbia, who smoke because they are nervous and don't know where they're going to hit, they don't know when they're going to do it first and what they're going to do. Secondly, they're going to pay three or four times as much property tax as they've done before. Those who had houses of one million or two million euros will pay 50% less property tax from the adoption of this law. It's a real government policy. That's not in program 20. 20. In program 20 20, every day is a good time. It's not raining and everybody's happy and smiling. That's why we said it's not the country we live in, it's another country. No matter what Mr. Mrkonjic laughs, his life is beautiful. But there are millions of people in this country whose life is not beautiful and who are not funny. They may not understand what we're talking about, but we ask you nicely – why is that? Why is the post-crisis model of economic growth and Serbia's development different from our budget? Why is plan 20 different from our budget? Why is what the government is saying different from our budget? Pensions won't grow 2% and 2% and 2% next year. No, pensions are actually less, they're less in January than they were last year. You were responsible for saying that they should be tied to wages. The salaries, gentlemen, are less today than they were a year ago and pensions are less and less because inflation eats it. And whatever law you have here, your moves are wrong and people live worse every day. The only way to stop it from changing the policy economically in this country. That means no more lies. No lies, no gas, no gas. There's no gas, no matter who's the director of Srbiagas. You know, anyone who doesn't pay for electricity doesn't have electricity. We're not talking about citizens, I'm talking about what a party personnel academy is, which is over 800 public enterprises, which eat liver to the citizens of this country. They live on an illusion, not your fault. They live in that illusion 10 or 15 years ago. It's your fault that in the past few you haven't done anything to make their lives better tomorrow. Absolutely nothing. Where are the money spending plans from that railroad? Where are the spending plans for anyone? "Serbigas"? Do we give the money to the Serbians, the glass factory in Paracina or don't I know who? Who are we giving this money to? For what? What's that money for? That's why the differences are like that, because even though we can't go back to where we started, we won't be able to support this one. No, because he is, he is real. We know that, we know that he's real. What is not realistic is avoiding the responsibility and political will of the ruling majority to do anything in this country, waiting only a day until new elections and only to survive 19 parties of the ruling coalition, so that they can again cheat and be in the same situation in 2012. That's why you can't get the support of anyone in this congregation except yourself. Therefore, this conversation, whether Mr. Mrkonjic, Diana Dragutinović, Bozidar Djelic, whoever comes, they have no comment on this, because they know that we are right, but they don't care. (Gorica Mojovic from the place: Don't yell so much. ) You know what, I'm sorry, really this – don't yell, if you have a problem, come in. I really don't understand. Really, please, President, this is out of each one, so I don't yell. You know what, I could tell you what to do about this budget. You better listen to that than if I'm yelling. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49865	The word has a gentleman, Minister Mrkonjic. Please report it, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49866	Diana's coming, but let me still justify what I've been sitting here for an hour and with special pleasure I've recorded everything you've said. Again, as always, I learn a lot of things here, of course. Although, in an inspiring speech, Mr. Andric was the most aggressive. I respect that, and I'm an aggressive man. Let's go in turn, ladies first. Mrs. Tabakovic, if I ask myself, I accept the amendment you have set. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic, too, if I ask myself, that's Article 36. - I'll take it. Mrs. Donka Banovic discussed it. I'm not sure about that. I think the objection is justified, and I'll try to suggest that it be accepted as well. Now we're going in a row. Mr Popovic said a few things in concrete terms that we can all agree on here, and that is absolutely true. But I would remind myself, not to defend the government or myself as a minister -- the same reason this government had when it was in charge, at least for those infrastructure-related projects. In this part, I answer to Mr Antić – no credit taken in the infrastructure has been taken without a study that justifies his taking. So, the biggest loans are for the highway from Subotica to Nis, Dimitrovgrad and down Vranja. The total value of these loans is about a billion and 100 million – 600 million from the European Investment Bank, 400 million from the World Bank and 150 million from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Investing in the highway, I would ask Mr Radical to listen to me, especially my friend, Mr Krasic, therefore, is the biggest net foreign exchange inflow, I say it the third time here in the Assembly, is in the area of traffic. I think most of you know that, and I'm asking you to accept that. So, the biggest net foreign exchange inflow. We need to build a highway and take money from transport. We need to build a railroad and also take money from transport. We need to build an airport and get the money from the plane landing. There's no big expense here. It's a net foreign exchange inflow. If now, according to the calculations, I'm always willing to be criticized and corrected, because I've only been doing that job for 40 years, the net foreign exchange inflow based on the toll revenue of 150 million, with the highway ending will be 300. So, all smart people can figure out that it's eight, nine years of paying off that loan if we invest in it. That's right. If anyone thinks it's not like that, let them say it. Of course, there are also businesses in the business, especially Mr Popovic knows that, which bring more profits. That's why Americans and Germans aren't crazy when they invest in infrastructure. Mr. Antichu, it's the same thing with the railroad. That's what you're getting along with. But I have the privilege of working at the time of Mr Milosevic. And then the railroad was in the third plan. And that's why we're here today. So we're subsidizing to the railways, so those 25,000 workers, and today they wanted to strike, so we agreed not to strike, still get some living conditions. Don't expect me to ever, maybe I'm here for the last time because I'm getting ready to reconstruct the government, so I won't be here anymore, firing any workers in this country. That's why I'm a socialist. That's why I have problems in the government. In my opinion, there is no forgiveness. Now out comes Hope Kolundji. So, the one we've received, he's got work to do, and the job of me as a minister is to hire them. Therefore, it is the task of all of you who are here in the congregation to hire them. So the railways have these 12 billion, but this year we started to reconstruct and reform those railways. Next year we finish it, where the infrastructure will be separated from traffic. This year we will create conditions for the railway to reduce its subsidies, i.e. taking from the state. It's 12 billion today. What's in the budget of 16 billion, since there's been some question, it seems to me, this morning, why 16. These were some debts related to the EPS and the Energy Project that the railways owed. It's not an increase in railway subsidies. As of next year, I repeat once again, if I'm in front of you here, the railway subsidies will be much less. I can't guarantee how much, but I'm sure it's much less. So we need to create conditions for this railway to be a European railway. And she's our greatest developmental opportunity, just as much as the highway. As for the relations I started to talk about in the budget, of course the first question and mine was, Mr Popovic, Prime Minister, the then candidate for Prime Minister – are we in charge of the country, not in charge or overindebted? I got this answer you were just talking about. That is why I continue to claim that the duties in this area are not exaggerated. So far, they're not exaggerated. But, of course, that famous 43% limit, Diana even gets angry, thinks she can be smaller and make us get smaller every day, that she's warning. So I repeat once again, I absolutely accept as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia critics of projects that have no justification, at least not the kind I was talking about here, in relation to travel and rail infrastructure. The Lord of the League, of course, is the legacy of the time we lived in and I was one of the executives. A gentleman from Ljig, Petkovic. And we've talked today about giving some of the funds, on Mrs. Diane's proposal, and giving it to people who have these problems. I would suggest that you and I agree on this, that we don't waste time now, that he come, so we'll settle this on the spot. So, that amendment of yours has been accepted and I wouldn't comment on it. As for the developmental and European, here, Diana came and bothered me, I can't work. Just to see that Diana has support in the government, don't make her out here on tears, be gentlemen in the end. So, developmental and European -- of course, the budget is developmental. I'm talking about infrastructure again. We didn't ask for it this year, someone discussed it this morning, I'm sorry, I don't know which one of the MPs, I'll deal with these money for these areas that are threatened by earthquakes and floods, we talked about it this morning. So the transport infrastructure in the infrastructure budget costs five billion and 200 million. Of course it's money enough. Why? Because we've got 10 credits for the Corridor Highway. No new project is there, except for the Danube bridge, the Žeželjev bridge of a new one, where the state of Serbia participates with 30% of the funds, and the rest gives the Republic, Vojvodina and foreign partners, i.e. the Italians, to be clear. So he's still in that part of the developmental, because it bothers us more and more to enter projects that, I repeat, return money in the fastest way. When it comes to Mr. Andric and his sharp criticism, not only for the railways, I did not laugh about listening to his discussion but another question was here, I think he, accepting Vlajko Senić, who read the programme, is absolutely right. But I would remind you that each of the ministries, including mine, has its own development plan by the age of 20. I even published it, I went public before the deadline, and I was a little criticized. So, with full co-operation with the European Commission, we have made a plan for the development of infrastructure in our country by 2020. This is an integral part of the document Mr. Senic was talking about and which Mr. Andric probably has. So that's exactly what you know, for the first time, what in this country should be done in agreement with Europe for the next ten years. This is very important because we know that such projects, such as infrastructure projects, cannot tolerate government change. They have to work in continuity until they're finished. That is why I accept that part of the criticism, but I repeat -- surely the Government of the Republic of Serbia will come up with a complete document and that it will be adopted here before you. I thank you for the trust you showed by listening to me and asking Mrs. Diana to take over.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49867	National MP Dragan Shormaz advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49868	I advertised the Rules of Procedure a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49869	Mr. Obradovic, before I gave my word to Mr. Mr. Mr. Schormaz, he answered. I didn't realize at that point that he had advertised the Rules of Procedure, but as soon as Mr. Minister started speaking, he showed the Rules of Procedure. Please don't disturb Mr. Shormaz. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49870	I am right after Mr. Senic, indeed, a member of 107, and you should take care of that. You know, Mr. Senic came to me directly, personally, and I don't need it, so he came to me with "you," which is nice to me, because I'm talking to him with "you," but I'm never going to be in this room, but I'm going to respect him as a fellow MP with "you." I'm probably partly responsible for that reaction he had, and I'm sorry about that, but I was and I'm still gunned down about something we've been listening to here for two days, and she's gone a little bit, and we're gonna be late tonight. Look, yesterday in the daily list "Today", Mr. Senic's boss said he knew there would be no 1000 euros in action and that he was conscious of the people, so Mr. Tadic would win the elections, but that Mr. Tadic knew that too. Now Mr. Senic says Mr. Tadic copied this program from this book. I have to protect the President of the Republic, he knew about the deception of making promises, he prescribed a man program he didn't seem to have, and you were supposed to protect the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49871	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor is there a way to protect the institution of the system, as you do, anywhere to sit, Mr. Shormaz. National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49872	First, let's get this straight, though I don't mind, but I think it's important for you to remember, the name Andric, it's the only Nobel Nobel Nobel Nobel laureate your government boycotted about a month ago. First question of the President of the Assembly, since an amendment to Article 35 has now been adopted. Jorgenke Tabakovic and 36th if we can get a break and be given a purified text. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is an authorised representative of the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49873	Please, you know the Rules of Procedure well, we are the only ones who can decide on amendments to the vote. What the government says, we will certainly have in mind and that will define us, but our position is definitive. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49874	Then the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a violation of Parliament's dignity. Unfortunately, Mr. Mrkonjic's charm cannot replace the misery in which Serbia lives, I have to say that no reconstruction will happen after we now adopt a budget that has 27 ministries. It's just that your place is safe for the next six months and you don't have to deal with it anymore. Regardless of these jokes, I don't think we understand each other, it's not our problem and the words are misread, and they can have consequences, and that's important. It's not our problem that you give money to the railroad if we stay in your vault. The problem is, we'll change it, reform it, listen to it from the time you were in government, 15 years ago, and nothing ever happens. I believe you have a plan that you've published, but it's not serious until the board and the Assembly adopts such a plan and then it's in a position every day to ask you what you've done today, what the director of the railroad has done today. Under these conditions, and these are the conditions the opposition requires, to say, okay, now the subsidies are justified. Without it, they're empty promises. We have been arguing here with one party about the pension fund for three years and every year they tell us – this is the reform year, everything will be fine, and right now in January you vote the budget and we start with the reform of the PIO Fund and nothing ever. Don't let us get back into that railroad situation. Fortunately, there's far less money at stake, or unfortunately. It's simple, what we resent, and I pray that if we want a serious debate, that it should be conducted as well. We don't know what money is spent on. Maybe it's justifiable, maybe all these subsidies are less than they'd give me, but we don't see the results except for the campaign, we don't see. We just know that the situation is worse today than it was a year ago and we suspect it'll be worse in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49875	MP Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49876	As for the observation, whether this growth model applies, I have to say that this is one model that was made by economists, isolated in space and time, which is not Serbia's political scene. I guess if this election list got 51%, they'd be able to implement that model. We live in another Serbia, and there's a coalition of more parties with different priorities, and each of us is trying to push through what he thinks is most important for his party platform and of course, there are compromises. As a result of the compromise, we cannot, since we are serious people, carry out what is found in some isolated space somewhere, that the theory would be best for Serbia. Probably, in America too, there would be some ideal model that economists would implement, they would have to win the election, so they could fully implement it. When we formed the government in 2008, we looked at the SPS and Dacic as the God they would turn to. And you've watched, Ivan, we've all looked together, so we can't run from the fact that this is a government that's quite socially oriented. We think that with more investment in the economy, better defend the social welfare, and our partners think differently. There's a compromise going on around here, and that's why I think this budget is optimal right now, and we don't see that it's going to be able to change until some reforms happen. Perhaps in the next election, the reform policy, radically, will receive support, and will be able to implement all this. At this point, we are running politics as a government, to maintain the fastest possible course in the given circumstances towards the EU, and in this sense, this budget matches for us, because we do not see how we can reduce pensions drastically. So, we can't let people who have a pension right, now tell them -- sorry, your expenditures are too big, we have to cut pensions 30% so this country can invest more. We can do as we're suggested to grow production faster, so that in that race we win the investment in relation to the rent for wages and pensions. We can't do it one time, we can't even subsidize. As far as the subsidy is concerned, we have submitted a report to which companies exactly how much per job, exactly how much the company has hired, exactly what the effects of all of this are, and it exists on the site, and you can go and see every dinar subsidy in which way it's spent. That's it, and probably at this point can be better, and if you win the next election we're here to see what the results will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49877	Mr. Ivan Andric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49878	I'm speaking to Mr. Senic, so I don't deny him the right to replication. We can argue about a lot, but we can't argue about the pensions you mentioned, this government relationship to any mention of this problem that exists, it's unacceptable. No one asked to cut pensions. It's a strategy. We, if we say, the Pension Fund must be reformed you will say – pensioners, kill them, they make you have small pensions. It's a very smart strategy, and it's certainly very economically justified. What we're telling you is that you just listen to your colleague Susan Grubjesic who, in principle, promoted the PIO Fund reform programme. If you had started doing this last year, at least LDP would have said, these subsidies for the PIO Fund are justified, because these people are really doing reform and maybe they need to be given more today, in order for this reform to result, that in the future pensioners live truly decently, rather than in Prime Minister Cvetkovic's microworld, that this PIO fund is not a social category, but an economic category. Nothing happened since 2008, which would convince us that you didn't just want to spend money to create some illusion that would allow you to come back to power. As for the subsidy, if you're not responsible for it, I don't know, you probably spoke on behalf of the party and Minister Dinkic, to line up all the parties, so each party should say who it subsidized. It's a very difficult road to go to. I don't think it would suit anyone. Speaking of which, my question – what is the VAT from next week on computers? I've spoken to various MPs, no one knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49879	It's been two minutes. Thank you. National MP Đuro Peric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49880	Madam President, Madam Minister and Associates, I have to say a little bit irritated by the whole thing, although everyone has the right to speak, which is a little bit and constantly some dispute with our party over what that PIO fund looks like. Mr. Andric, it doesn't look as simple and as simple as you think it is, because it's so simple and simple, and at a time when your president was vice president, you would have to do something more serious about this whole thing. It's not that simple and simple for the simple reason that in the whole world and in economies that are much better, it can't be so revolutionary to change. Now what's been done before, these 3-4 times since 2000, this is where it's headed. I don't know if you've been reading and looking at all that data, but it's such suggestions and such solutions that they're causing again, on the other hand, among our colleagues also criticise that it's gone too far, in many things like cutting those or extending their lives, and there's a lot of objections about it and the amendment to keep it the way it is. In other words, many advocate it. We have a situation everything is the same only retirement won't be. That's how it comes to him. I didn't see anyone come out with any real suggestions that should come out right now. This has now happened as one step that will enable what you're saying. It's not such a simple thing to increase pensioners every year. The idea became that everyone retires. It's now a wish for everyone to retire. When everybody retires now, I don't know what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49881	Replica, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49882	Yeah. You should not be surprised to be mentioned because you were the chairman of the board of directors of that PIO fund at the same time as the MP. Of course we're talking to you then. We can't talk to Shormaz about the PIO fund because he's a man, he's young for retirement, he doesn't know anything about it. We tell you the following thing, perhaps often in life it seems that something you do is excessively and excessively difficult and overly radical. We can't look at a pension fund reform based on your feelings for that fund, not to say the interests your party has because somehow it represents that fund in public. Whether you want it or not. Your condition was to raise your pension when you enter the government. You're a party called the pensioner's party. So, you just want it or not, that's how it is. It can't be measured by your senses, it can be measured by the results. We don't want to tell you anything else, I don't know why you're so angry. We tell you only one thing - at this rate, which is three new pensioners in two jobs and over 20% of the budget goes as a subsidy to the pension fund, this country has no chance. There's no way. Two hundred and thirty billion dinars this year go from the Republika Srpska budget to the pension fund. Last year it was, it doesn't matter what, 25% of the budget, 220. Thank you. So, the results are lagging behind. You may have a legitimate feeling, but then you need to step aside and let someone else go, like G17. They have a plan. Let them go, maybe their result next year will be 15% subsidies and bigger pensions. You know what, I don't know how to build an atomic bomb either, but I believe that it exists and that someone can make it and that its consequences are enormous.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49883	Time. Thank you. National MP Đuro Peric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49884	First, I want us to discuss this membership once and for all on the board of directors of the fund. I wasn't in front of the Fund's PUPS, I wasn't in front of the PUPS or the UO Fund, I was in front of the Retirement Alliance when there wasn't a PUPS. It's a first. Secondly, it should be known that the Fund is managed tripartitely, managed by employers, trade unions and managed by pensioners. Therefore, the Fund Act is such that it does not now make what you say impossible. That's why you need to change the law and create a different fund than how you speak. However, there are no conditions for such a thing now, because if there were, that would be done. And let me tell you, with the private funds that are clean in that sense, it's not going so well as it would look. Therefore, there should be some reality in all of this. I'm not saying something doesn't need to change, and it's going to change, of course it will. It takes some work to do. On the other hand, the IMF who participated together now on this matter has also acknowledged that this is the best thing that has been done in these areas around us and around us, and what is now proposed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49885	National MP Dragan Shormaz is reported with a wish? Mr. Andric has spoken your last name in a dignified way. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Dear Shormaz: Member 107th Dignity. You weren't here. ) I say that Mr Ivan Andric has spoken your last name in a dignified way and that this is not a basis for replication. Thank you. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. People's MP, you've been given your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49886	Mr. Andric said I didn't know anything about the PIO Fund. Maybe, I don't want to argue with him, because my target, of course, is not someone who's in opposition, I didn't even talk about it, I don't know where he gets the idea of me being mentioned. Did he want me to stand up and talk? Did he not like the fact that I was defending the institution of the President of the Republic earlier than the attacks from his coalition in the last few days? I don't know what it is, I don't know about motive. I could criticise Mr. Andric for not being here since this morning, but he came now that the highest ratings are at five o'clock to use the time, which, of course, he's right. I don't want to talk about it at all. I know enough about it, Mr. Andric, that here these days I'm signing a contract with a private pension fund, because the way it's being run by those PUPS, I doubt that even when it comes time for my pension, there's going to be something in that fund. There, at least enough knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49887	There's no injury to the member. While the microphone wasn't on, I understood that you said you wanted to talk about the injured member of 107th and the injured sufficientness of the National Assembly. I followed the discussions very closely. It's up to me to assess when there's a basis for replication, and when the MPs are skillfully trying to form a basis for replication, which here was a failed case. People's MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49888	Thank you. Just a little correction. First of all, I'm not like Mr. Krasic to sit here all day, I have something else to do, and I was here this morning. I was here this morning, and I was talking about Mr. Chiplic, who you could talk about, and you can see that through any information show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49889	People's MPs, you've just created the basis to be required by article 103. I'm making a 5th statement of caution. You'll have to try harder to get a warning from me, as you'll have to do more to imitate the basis for the replica. So please don't do that. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49890	Mrs. Comić, I don't know what context Andric mentions me. Explain to me, please. (President: The People's Parliament, it does not say in the Rules of Procedure. He said my name, I don't know why mine. (President: You've called in to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know, this situation hasn't even been foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, you know. He speaks of Shormaz, and warns me. (President: National MP, you cannot say that a injured Rules of Procedure that does not exist. ) No, I'm asking you to explain to me this situation that is now. (President: I think it's inexplicable. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49891	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 43rd amendment. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49892	Article 43 has long been in the provisions of the Budget Law for each year, i.e. since the time when the commission has been legalised by a regulation adopted by the Minister for Economy and Regional Development. It was then the Minister of Economy in 2005. Madam Minister, I thought it appropriate that as you in article 15 define your awareness of the opportunities on the market, it is as if the awareness of the crisis we are in is the height of the deficit in which the republican budget is insufficient to paint in words and to say that we are in favour of a smaller deficit. Here's a practical example of how you can make the privatisation revenue more into the budget by reducing the 5% commission to a 1% commission. What's going on? You answer me, or the government on behalf of all of you writes that it is impossible to do this, or that the amendment is not accepted because it is responsible for reducing the commission from 5% to 1%, as rewards for success, God, strangely called, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, who adopts the rules on height and compensation. You're trying to tell me that the Budget Law, and I've just laid down by attitude 2 for a seven-day period for the government to amend the rule of law as a lower legal act than the law and for the commission to illustrate the circumstances of the market and the conditions of the deficit. At a time when a law in the area of justice dictates the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, you tell me you can't change the rules that are in the jurisdiction of a minister. It speaks more vividly of the government and its relation to the budget and to the citizens than all this story is an hour ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49893	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. This amendment has been accepted by the government, and it will be declared by the National Assembly. He's in search, and we don't have a report from the board. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49894	Ladies and gentlemen, responding to my previous exposure, Mrs. Nada Kolundzia said that I deceive Serbian citizens, so I want to make a few facts. First, the data – 8,000 employees in 2000 and 30,000 employees today, I took over from the government of Serbia's documents. I can show them. If he's lying to the government, so am I. Secondly, it is not true that the 30,000 officials included members of the Serbian Army. Thirdly, I can't take two or three responsibilities, which is about 20% higher jurisdiction, be an excuse to increase the number of employees by 300%, from 8,000 to 30,000. Fourth, for houses built in the Kolubar district, the government of the Republic of Serbia averages 20,000 euros. I carried out the following calculation: 20,000 employees, seven years of average work, pay and contribute per employee, reach the amount of one billion and five hundred million euros. If you divide it by 20,000 euros, you get 159.000 houses. Under Article 43 of the report on the funds achieved from the sale of capital in the privatisation process, the Ministry of Finance and the relevant assembly committees shall be provided. We have suggested that this report be delivered to the local self-government on whose territory is an enterprise that is subject to privatisation, because we thought that this would reduce the possibility of a thief and that better control could be achieved. By accepting the amendments, the government has ensured greater transparency in the privatisation process, and I would like the chairman of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to ensure greater respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to allow SRS MPs the right to reply when it belongs to them under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49895	National MP, with strict respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you had to be warned after one minute because you were violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 106. So please refrain from jeopardizing the reputation of the National Assembly during your own presentations. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to ask that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be respected and that all of these provisions apply to all of us and that inappropriately tossing and rude words are prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling upon, believing that you have been threatened with the rights and, under what moral code, that you may endanger the rights of others and deny the rights of respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for all other Members of Parliament, including the MP Dusan Maric, who is seeking respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly while violating them. Please don't do this anymore. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49896	Madam Minister, this is the draft budget of the government of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 and this is something that calms the horns in the bag. This is how you tried to make peace with each other, to meet some of your needs, and Serbia's citizens will suffer. Someone said – the budget cannot be dramatically different, but the life of our citizens is dramatically more difficult this year than last year, and next year it will be harder than it is in 2010. The SRS, by submitting amendments to the budget, tried to save where possible, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to avoid jeopardising the essential, vital functions of a country that we respect and whose integrity in any case we seek to preserve and protect. I proposed, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 44 in Section 2 where we proposed that all that was left, I simply doubt that it was possible, given this Government and its appetite to spend, in the case of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, if something was left unexpended in 2010, that those funds were used to fill the deficit in 2011, and that the former finance minister made no special decision, but to accept this amendment and be formally, to be a form of behaviour in the savings of funds. Where could we use those funds later? We could give these funds to these strikers in Kragujevac, we could give them to those in the King who are affected by the earthquake, we could give them to Love, Prijepolje, Loznica and other places, as well as a number of other places. Also, we could give good students and students, unemployed, pensioners, and I don't know everything we couldn't give them, because we really need help at this time. When it comes to borrowing and our public debt, it is said that this could amount to up to 45% of GDP. It depends on the vitality of the real sector and other possibilities, what our raw materials are, what our production is, what our export base is. Unfortunately, with this power she falls every day, and there are very little chances of this going better, but we count after the next elections, whenever they are, that Serbian citizens will recognize who they want, who they want and who can preserve and protect their interests, and that's above all SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49897	I apologize to the MPs, I'm trying to find a notice on the guests at the gallery that we'll welcome. That is why MP Sreto Peric, with my co-operation, broke the Rules of Procedure 35 seconds longer than is allowed to speak. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Donka Banovic. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49898	This is the last member, I think, and the last amendment to the last member, and this member is the one that ends every bill and talks about when this bill, or this budget, comes into force. When we submitted this amendment, I think we were wrong, we needed a different amendment to propose, which is what we suggest to delete Article 45. We may be able to postpone and prevent the adoption of this draft budget for 2011 and may allow the Minister for some additional time to make those resources available to be better allocated for 2011. No, we're not. Someone called this budget "double naked" during the discussion. I kind of like that expression, 'cause it talks a lot. In the discussion, we also pointed out that this budget is called "antiagrarian", all 2.5% of the budget is foreseen for the single branch of industry and economy in Serbia, which is currently achieving surpluses, so not enough for agriculture. It can also be called "anti-development" because, for example, we pointed out that, in the Development Fund there are no increased funds, there are very small funds and these are resources that would serve to develop our domestic businesses and domestic economies, which are in trouble because they have a liquidity problem. He's also anti-developmental if we're talking about a human factor, because without people and education, people have no employment, no progress. So my fellow MPs have calculated that for all those instruments that are designed to improve employment, four billion dinars are projected in this budget. So, according to that criterion, it's anti-developmental. We haven't submitted that amendment, and I'm sorry that we haven't, again, said that we might postpone the entry into force of this double-naked amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49899	Before we continue the work, honourable MPs, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of National Assembly is followed by a group of citizens interested in the work of the National Assembly and this: Živana Jankovic, Violeta Pavlovski, Nevenka Bila and Jelena Filipović. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This was the last amendment in the search for details. [[Applause]] Anyone else want a word? Minister Diana Dragutinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49900	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, as every time so far, I have carefully read all your amendments and all your arguments. I've grouped all your amendments by so-called. Members' groups, although someone would object to using the word "so-called" I apologize for using it to accept an amendment that excludes the word from the 2011 budget, to get the feeling that the budgets would have been done by other parliamentary groups, that they had their own government. Also, I compared them with the amendments of the parliamentary groups in the previous period, and then, since one of the most frequently repeated words is as a feature of this and the previous budgets that were passed in the term of this government, so "antigraren", "anti-crisis", "scandalous", etc., I dared to bring budgets from earlier years, are here with me to compare with what others were not "anti-crisis", which were not "anti-crisis" or "antiscandalous". Budget is always a story of numbers and I really think that the more numbers we know about the functioning of the state, the more we know about government policy, and you MPs have more ammunition for criticism, influence and improvement. The greatest critics so-called, I apologize again for the use of words, transparency, were once satisfied with the classification of expenditures to only three categories. It's the most fierce, the most critical of the so-called. the contracts on work and expenditure on specialised services, as if there were no such thing and is a characteristic of only these, not the previous governments, reminding me that the classification of expenditure that had become only material costs by the beginning of 2000, expenditure on wages and, see the use of words – special purposes. Were these special purposes contracted for work, I don't know, specialized services, and it was something special. Many of you were members of different governments. That's why I brought all these budgets, just to see the difference in that fiscal and even macroeconomic policy. Let's say, with me, the budget from the early '90s, 1992, 1995, 1998, we have 2002. So a dozen sides. They're not foreign quality reflections, budgets are numbers, which is more information, you know how the state works. We've got budgets from Kostunica's government, 2002, slightly more massive since 2006. Finally, you have the government's budgets, 2009 and 2010. No matter how classified the budgets were, I think I said it even after the debate in principle, but I want to repeat it again and now, I was curious about how many discretionary expenditures you can't accept right now, that a government can, should have some discretion in its own hands. In 1992, 1995, 1998, I wouldn't be talking about the 1999 budget now, it wouldn't make sense, the participation of so-called. discretionary expenditures, no salaries, material costs were, behold, miracles, 13%, 14% of the budget. That budget was only balanced on paper. We all know that during that period, we had this deficit. In 1995, the influence of discretionary ones, why do I repeat that? Because these are the expenditures that lead to such a policy that you have a development budget, agrarian budget and a budget that is not scandalous. Because you're all asking for more expenses for so-called. development, agrarian, etc., was not bad to look at how isolated it was during these periods. In 1995, wonders, again 13%, 14% for such programmes, in 1998 only 9%, the crisis is on the rise, in 2002 the deficit is 4% of the social product, subsidies and capital expenditures amounting to, behold, 13% of the expenditure, in 2006 the budget has a deficit of 2.5% of the social product, again 13% of the discretionary expenditure. So, no budget, no budget of this government in crisis, no previous budgets have been allocated to the so-called so-called. discretionary expenditure, to encourage agrarians, businesses, employment, exports, etc. of 13% of total expenditure. So, once it wasn't a little bit, today it's a little small. Maybe we could wonder if it's small or not. Are subsidies just incentives or are there other incentives? How does the state encourage, stimulate, help and support? Through low tax rate policy, over the so-called so-called tax incentives and exemptions, through subsidies and through subsidy loans. 41/1BD/MS17.45-17.55 So, the total state aid, you know that we adopted the State aid Act, which includes exactly what I have just said, tax incentives, direct subsidies, subsidised loans, in Serbia is 1.5% of the social product, meaning that subsidies for agriculture and railway subsidies have been excluded, which is subsidized in each country and I have found that it is three times more than in the EU countries and twice as much as in similar countries in the region. These subsidies, as you know, or incentives and are approved for different purposes, fostering employment, small, medium-sized enterprises, restructuring of different sectors etc. In the pre-crisis year, I said, there have been almost four times more state aid in Serbia than in EU countries and about three times more than in the region, but again measured as only methodologically correct, as participation in the social product. I don't know why when it comes to the situation of agriculture as a sector, we're talking about only one number, and these are subsidies in agriculture. As if there were no other expenditures, such as capital expenditure in the agriculture sector, as if there were no tax treatment of a whole of one population, which represents, let me say, a rural or rural household. I could again compare the exemption for agricultural subsidies in the Republic of Serbia compared to what is thought to be the standard for countries similar to us. Let me say, standard participation is 0.6% of the social product, just subsidies. The subsidies from 2000 to today in agriculture, only when we look at direct subsidies, what you're looking at, really ranged between 0.5% of the social product and 1% of the social product. Only subsidies, which we singled out for agriculture this year are 0.75% of the social product. So they're more than average, but entire agriculture, if you look closely at the budget is supported by the agriculture ministry's budget, from budget and own funds of different fees to 32 billion dinars, which is 1% of the social product. I'd also like to talk about the tax treatment of this category of population. I'd like you to find me an example of a country of this kind of tax treatment for the agricultural population. And that's kind of support and help. So, is income tax paid and is property tax paid? It's a decision of this but also of the previous governments, it's a very and extremely unusual solution to exclude a whole segment of the population from paying tax obligations. A question was asked by the Radical Party MPs about the so-called disposal fee, which was addressed by the tax administration to Zrenjanin. I have to say, in all cities, the tax administration is only administering. Therefore, the decision on the disposal fee is taken by the Management Board of two public enterprises "Serbian" and "Vojvodovod", the tax administration did not make that decision, it only administers, and "Serbians" have the Management Board I think this Thursday and decide on the request of Zrenjanin who only submitted a request for exemption from this fee. I said that I was trying to take a look at the budgets from your amendments, to make sure that certain parliamentary groups were able to form a government and decide on budgets. The Serbian Radical Party's budget is definitely in favour of making guarantees to the state as little as possible, completely taking away the government's discretion, more transfers to municipalities, there is an amendment that transfers as many as 58 billion dinars to municipalities, although the Law on the financing of local self-government should not be more than 48 billion dinars, it advocates a reduction in subsidies, higher salaries of civil servants and redistribution on account of so-called. services according to contracts and specialised services. The budget of the Progressive Party, SNS and Advanced Serbia is definitely for the abolition of the subsidized loans. In this way, the participation of discretionary expenditures would be far less, and this budget would probably be even more anti-developmental and anti-agrarian by some other MPs. Unnecessary borrowing is unacceptable, it is unacceptable to increase public spending at a time of crisis. Here I should say that it is precisely acceptable at a time of crisis to increase public spending, that the role of fiscal and monetary policy, even according to the books, the MP here recommended a really great book, Josef Stiglica. There are other good books, say, Rosette, Miramer. The role of fiscal and monetary policy is primarily stabilising. It's their function to stabilize economic cycles. They are never used for stimulated growth over a long period of time. I often like to compare fiscal policy to preparing runners for some big competition. Fiscal policy, to prepare a good runner, there are two methods. There's one doping in blood, and it's like monetary policy, but since we're talking about the budget here, the other is a relaxation before the race. It's like a fiscal policy or an increase in public spending and indeed, doping in blood or for which technique you already decide or relax before the race, it can contribute to the runner's winning race, if he was constantly relaxed, he wouldn't compete or train, his ability would drop. The fiscal policy over a long period of time should never be used in the function of economic growth, but only in the function of stabilisation. There's also a lack of understanding of concepts. That's what I'd like to point out here. There's a difference between fiscal results. We can have a deficit and be very liquids, we can have a surplus and be impersonal. Having more privatisation revenues in the budget or using our own revenue from previous years to finance deficits doesn't mean that our fiscal outcome is better, just means that we probably use less credit sources and more privatisation and more own income to finance deficits. What would the DSS budget be? On the basis of the amendments, it would be grammatically better, although the proposed amendments have certain grammatical errors. You'd be linguistically precise without any literal errors, with simple sentences. He wouldn't be freaked out. He'd have a lot more tax relief, bigger subsidies from agriculture, they could show it, but no, agriculture, businesses, major transfers to municipalities, frozen profits, etc. Some MPs, when it comes to privatising Telecom or NIS, have different standards. I couldn't explain it to rational reasons. Also, for the same MP, it is unacceptable for the funds in the transition fund to be smaller this year and for the transfers of the Ministry of Finance and the National Employment Service to be smaller. I must say, the transition fund, as his own name says, should have been shut down long ago, that there was luck. The Transition Fund has been going on for eight or ten years. For severances or compensations to fired workers so far has been allocated from this fund over a long period of time to nearly 70 billion dinars. 42/1GI/VK17.55-18.05 Why are transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget this year less than in earlier years, when it comes to the National Employment Service? They were bigger in earlier years because there was a delay. So it wasn't 12 benefits paid to the unemployed, it was paid less. For the past two years, we've paid all the delays, so now in this budget you have 12 fees, no more for 14 or 15 as it was this year and the previous year. In all this, the National Employment Service, except for these funds, also has the means for active employment measures of over 5 billion dinars. What were the most frequently mentioned topics? It seems to me that I have already pointed out this by saying about how the budgets of different parliamentary groups would look, but definitely transfers in municipalities are the topic most often mentioned. It is true that transfers are not 1.7% of the social product, if they were bigger, if they were almost 48 billion dinars. Now about 32 billion dinars. I'd like to make a few facts. I think in one of my previous presentations, I also talked about it. I would like to repeat once again, especially because the MP of a group of MPs was so bitterly angry with the presidents of local self-government and was so bitter about the property tax and so on. Dracon tax rates, on the other hand, require greater transfers of the republican budget to local self-government, as if these transfers were not secured from tax rates and it is normal for him not to tax his local population and that the tax is paid by some outside of that municipality. In all countries, property tax is the most important tax instrument in the hands of local self-government. All local self-government taxes struggle to have this instrument in their hands and to tax the population in proportion to their economic strength, i.e. the value of the property. So what do local self-government budget expenditures look like? Again here, whenever it comes to some savings, it's been talked about how to cut expenditures, rudely high service expenditures, contracts and specialized services. I want to say what the numbers are again for all of us. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we are talking about today, accounts for nearly 240,000 people. Total expenditure on buying goods and services is 40 billion. Of that 50%, so 20 billion goes to so-called. contract services and specialised services. When it comes to local self-government, you will not believe 60,000 people spend the same amount of money to buy goods and services, 40 billion dinars, and 50% again for contract services and specialized services. The next topic was the eternal theme of borrowing. There were messengers from a group who spoke, what we did for the last 10 years, we were only in debt. This is really completely wrong and incorrect. Ambassador, we haven't been in charge for the last 10 years, the last 10 years or more, by the end of 2008, we've been in debt. If we looked at the participation of public debt in the social product, we would see that in 2000 the participation was 160% of the social product, so it fell to 100% of the social product. Indeed, in 2008, I fell to 28% of the social product. The first year in which we are more in debt as a country is in 2009 and 2010, in crisis years. Also, another group of MPs as if they wanted to deliberately show that the government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the Ministry of Finance, is underestimating public debt. I don't know, I think I've repeated it several times, but since an MP who unfortunately isn't present right now has just come out, I have to say there's a government debt, a public debt and a public sector debt. The government debt knows exactly what it is. It's a debt of a consolidated state with no guarantees issued. You also know what public debt is. Public debt is a debt of a consolidated state plus a guarantee issued. Then you also know what public sector debt is. This is all I have now listed, the debt of a consolidated state, the guaranteed issue, includes the debt of the NBS and includes the debt of public enterprises that are directly in debt, without guarantee. The Republic of Serbia and you MPs have passed a public debt law. The public debt law says it is a debt of a consolidated state and a guarantee of the state. Under public debt law, the Republic of Serbia, the finance ministry is leading its public debt and it is perfectly normal that the data run by the NBS on the external debt of the public sector differ. I'd like to ask you to keep this story from happening again. So, we have government debt, public debt and public sector debt, we have the Public Debt Act, and we exactly show public debt data. There is a problem with registering withdrawn special draw rights by the IMF at the end of 2009. That's what the DRI report found. Did the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially the finance minister, want to hide something? If you remember, in 2009 somewhere near the end, the National Assembly passed a law on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the IMF based on the use of means of allotting special rights to drag. Then we asked the IMF, there's a letter about whether it's a public debt. That's when they said it wasn't. We registered it as a long-term obligation, because if you want us to agree on something, the debt must have its own manual and terms. This isn't long. However, this obligation to the IMF is also registered by the NBS, or registered by the NBS, registered by the Ministry of Finance. In September 2010, there was also a written clue to this, we received information from the IMF that it was decided that these funds should be public debt. From that moment on, we turned it on. I'd like to say that a debt that we haven't regulated can't be a public debt. The MPs of the same follow-up group have been told that we are approaching the upper limit of maximum duty. I'm talking about that number 43%. For accuracy, I'd say that's the upper limit but low duty. So, 43% is the upper limit but low duty. Also, interest expenditure is certainly not 10% budget expenditure. That's another thing. Who's paying back the debt? It is the favorite explanation of individual MPs, we all care about future generations. Why we're in charge, they'll have to pay back the debt. We all know that there is an internal and external debt, but we also know that during 2009 and 2010 we used the internal debt to cover the fiscal deficit mainly, about 70%. One MP has an excellent book, so when he uses the book in terms of some topics, he could use it when he talks about taxes, or about property taxes, and he could also use it when it comes to borrowing. 43/1AH/MJ18,05-18,15 If the state borrows from its citizens it is an internal debt. No burden is created for future generations because it's just a redistribution. One has extra money, the other has a shortage. In the future, this situation will be reversed. So, when debt is paid, there is a transfer of income from those that are bond sellers to those who are now their customers. It's like the right hand owes the left hand. Of course, if the deficit is financed from abroad, it is about 30% in our 2009 and 2010 case, you could say that future generations bear the burden of debt, but all of course depends on the rate of economic growth in the future and on the cost of financing, on what kind of project we invested in, etc. Finally, once again, if we all know together, debts are passed on not only to future generations but also to present generations. We are witnessing that the debt on the basis of the old foreign exchange savings is paid by those who have led to this debt, i.e. to pay for future generations. It's similar with pensioners' debts. Many of these debts will be paid by us, not just future generations. Fighting government debt and pointing out that the state is overly in debt were also those who criticised the issuing of a guarantee for a bypass around Belgrade as if it were not necessary to delay the granting of such a guarantee at the time of the crisis. Look, there's a little math exercise, and I'd like to share it with you. Personally, I think this is number one national project. It's not just a project important to Belgrade. It's part of Corridor 10. I can tell you what the loss of RS is based on the failure to complete the bypass around Belgrade. We know how much the average earnings are in Belgrade – 42,000 dinars then you get out of it the average daily daily of 1,900 dinars, then the average hour, and then the number of people circulating and you see that the daily loss in dinars is 100 billion dinars, the monthly loss of two billion, the annual loss of 26 billion or the euro is about 250 million euros. This is national priority number one and must be found in the RS budget. There have been conflicting amendments within the same parliamentary group. One wants to cut consumption by 30 billion, as I understand the amendments. Others again cite examples of some other countries, such as Russia. I don't think Russia and the great country are a good example for Serbia to compare. They want public spending to be increased. It wouldn't be easy for you to bring the RS budget for 2011. Someone said we don't have political courage. I wouldn't agree with that. However, it was necessary to pass a law that included provisions on fiscal responsibility in the period ahead of us, pre-election. It's not an easy task. This is a reduced deficit, 120 billion, and 138 for the country as a whole. It is achieved without growing tax burden. I would also refer to those discussions that I could hardly accept personally. It's been criticised to be in debt based on the purchase of planes as if it's rude to fly a plane, as if other statesmen don't have planes, as if other governments don't use planes. Planes are only used for very short visits, when you go somewhere for two or three or four hours and go back in the same day. Do we really need to crash the plane and realize that we were supposed to buy a new one? Someone said NATO bombing wasn't a terrible thing to do with the current situation. The period of absolute uncertainty when we spent time in basements often without water, without electricity, when schools were closed, in fear of children whether something would happen to them and how we would survive the night was far better for some than the current state. Hope is one of the most widely used words in public life besides change and trust affects whether or not the company will invest, whether the foreign investor will come or not. That's why the power of positive opinion is really invaluable. Someone asked – how does this country stimulate employment? Directly through the National Employment Service, giving out five billion euros for direct employment and indirectly stimulating production with 113.5 billion dinars and these are different kinds of incentives. I would like to tell you, however, that this is a country in which, say, NIS is going to invest 450m euros and in which direct investment will certainly be two to three billion euros. If you want to be honest, you have to notice that it's been built, built, modernized more kindergartens than in the last 10 years, 20 that a car accident has been reconstructed. See what the Bulevar Revolution or Bulevar King Alexander looks like, traffic loops, Tsareva Čupri, Tsamajdan Park, different markets, bridge on Ada. There's a bridge over the Danube. It's late on the north arm, but it's been built 60 kilometers. Stocks have been launched towards Bulgaria. A bridge on Vienna. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the 2011 RS budget that implies a countercyclical fiscal policy. Without this kind of policy, the crisis would be deeper, it would last longer. It is really not easy to lead a fiscal policy that has two opposite objectives, to support a still weak economy and to be sustainable. That's why we need a budget that really represents social cohesion, and that's why I really don't think we need a battle line between taxpayers, public sector employees, social security users, foreign inventors, future generations. You know what Stiglitz wrote in that book of his? You have on page three or four, you can turn, the state's activities affect our lives from birth to death. We're born in state hospitals. Our birth is registered in birth certificates. We're going to state schools. At some point in our lives, we all get money through programmes such as student loans, unemployment benefits, disability benefits, poverty eradication programmes, social protection and health care. We're 25% employed by the state. We're traveling through state roads. We're using state rails. Our security and security is secured by the judiciary, the military, the police. The state can't provide more than what they provide and give her taxpayers. I'm really going to finish. New Year's coming up, and it's really important that we adopt this budget. 44/1AD/LjL18,15-18.25 There is one joke about how optimists and pessimists differ. The optimist is the one who waits for the new year to make sure that the new year will come, the pessimist is the one who is also waiting for the new year to make sure that the old year is over. We're definitely looking forward to a better year in 2011. Whether pessimistic or optimistic, left or right, on either side, representatives of the government or the opposition, I really ask you to reconsider and support the 2011 budget in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49901	Anyone else want a word in the specifics search? There's a word from MP Nenad Popovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49902	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49903	National MP, you have two minutes at your disposal as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49904	We still have a lot to say, but since the DSS parliamentary group has been mentioned, I'd like to replicate, if you'll excuse me. If not, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49905	As for the application of the Rules of Procedure, you would have to spend the time left at your disposal as an authorised representative. Since there is a basis for replica, if I give you a replica, then in accordance with Article 27, I say that the replica has every representative of each parliamentary group, with you being entitled to both the replica and your two minutes that you cannot use along with the replica. This is Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not directly applied to the use of time. So, every parliamentary group will be entitled to two minutes, and then I ask you to speak for two minutes, also using the right to replication. Do we understand each other? I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but I think this is good for work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49906	In two minutes, I'd be replicating Mrs. Secretary. Instead of talking about the future, what will happen in 2011 or 2012, it's nice that you analyzed the budgets in 1992, 1995, you could have gone since 1945, but, about 2011, we won't live better, Madam Minister, no matter what you analyzed. Of course every budget is better and better. And of course the 1995 budget is better than it was in 1992. Of course the 2010 budget is better and more transparent than it was in 2006. That's for sure and that's democratic fluid, because that's how we develop. I would just add that in democratic states, the opposition mainly criticises the government. These criticisms should be taken very seriously and tried, whether you agree with them or not, especially if they are professional and professional, to accept them. I would replicate this last thing you said -- that there's no rational reason why someone was selling NIS and it's not for selling Telecom. Since you were in the government and we were coalition partners, like all MPs in this assembly, except for one small group of MPs, we voted for this law and I just want to add - Russia is the only one with oil and gas. There's something small about Norway. When you sell NIS, it makes more sense to sell it to someone with their natural raw materials. On the other hand, NIS was just part of one big, it was called, we adopted together in the Assembly, Madam Minister, the gas oil deal, and there's a big difference. And telecommunications, Madam Minister, are something else entirely. It's a telecommunications infrastructure, and today there's no rational reason to sell Telecom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49907	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49908	The budget openness index by international categorisation put your budget, the Republika Srpska budget, on the 94-nation list, 36th place with Ghana. So much for transparency. Just because he has 1,100 pages doesn't mean he's more transparent. But you represent a country that doesn't pay its suppliers, contractors, doesn't pay for electricity, doesn't pay for phones and other utility. The championship has mutual coalition debts to form the government. It is not correct to say and call discretionary rights what the budget should not contain. You should know that the budget is a matter of law and that it does not establish the rights but rather a list of the laws that you have counted. The law lays down the rights that the budget only deploys. Do you remember that there used to be a law on public income and expenditure in this country and was a defense of volunteerism and discretionary rights of the government, because only by law could income and tax be established and only by law could money be spent. My dear lady, today there are subsidies and a transitional fund to be decided by the resolution minister and you, as Government, and you are running away from this assembly as a "devil of the cross" to lay down your accounts for it, but it is in order to establish a revision. You've shown examples of budgets, but you haven't delivered what after the revolutionary year 2000 showed a report on the spending of money in 2001? And there's that report. It's a bit thicker and it can't compare to what we have today from the revision in terms of the offense our people would say – what we used to do, it's little babies for these today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49909	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic. He'll use the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49910	Madam Minister, in these two minutes, my first question is this - if this or the previous governments are so due, explain to me why in each next budget we have bigger expenditure to pay the principal debt, to pay the interest and to cover the guarantees that you do not pay those to whom you give the right to be in debt, since you have all owed us? I'm still interested, Madam Minister, what model of growth has fiscal policy favored and stimulated this country in the last ten years? You are now offering us another model of growth that will not stimulate consumption and convince us that we should save and invest in the development of the economy. Just before you say - fiscal policy cannot be exclusively in the function of economic development. I ask you - when in the last ten years has fiscal policy stimulated economic development and not stimulated consumption? As you understand the significance of the bypass, the fact is that for ten years you've been talking about Corridor 10 without that corridor being even a third away, and so far it's supposed to be over. When you talk about the importance of the property tax, Mrs Dragutinovic, first you in the government must understand the importance of the property tax. For ten years, you've been unable to resolve legalization. For ten years, you haven't been able to create an immovableity cadastre. For ten years, Mrs Dragutinovic, you have been unable to create conditions to form a market price for land and a market price for real estate in Serbia. Until you figure it out, you'll never get a proper property tax. Well, you said we weren't into guarantees. But you didn't say which guarantees we didn't. You didn't say which companies we don't allow guarantees for? How much money does the unpunished stand for the fact that you're not capable of doing infrastructure projects...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49911	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The Minister can report at any moment, she's here and by the texts we've already crossed and by those who are just following. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49912	I'm really gonna be brief. I'm just going to look back on that discussion about the methodology of budgeting and the fact that I'm somewhere boasting about the transparent budget, and that some other results show the opposite or that it's normal for the methodology of budgeting to change in function of time and that it's normal that, as time goes by, the budgets are getting better and better. I wouldn't completely agree with you. I think I brought the budgets of Laza Pachu here a long time ago. So the budget of Laza Pachua or the budget of the Kingdom of SHS was much better than the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So that's not always true. Also, the methodology is true that it changes in function of time, but I have to say that the methodology that we haven't gotten close to yet, I can say responsibly, has been known since 1986. As many countries around us have had an audit report in the mid-80s, budgets could then be done according to the exact same methodology. So this is the budget that's approaching, not yet, the 1986 methodology of state financial statistics. The largest number of countries are already using the 1991 methodology. So, no one, there were no interferences in terms of knowing that such budgets were working. Of course, you always have some rank lists. Serbia is not a country, except somewhat in sport, which is the first of all. So we have some good sports results. It wouldn't be bad, perhaps, if there were any of those rankings, so let's see what was Serbia's position, let's say, by the transparency of the budget exactly in those years from which I brought those budgets. So in 1992, for example, then 1980, for example, in 1995 or 2002. So it's easy to say – now there's a rank list. Show that rank list before, so let's see if we've fixed our place or made it worse. I talked about privatization of NIS and Telekom from only one aspect, which is that both NIS and Telekom are our vital resources. In that sense, it was my observation and, of course, fiscal policy. You see, I've said it many times, and I'll say it again, there's a book that your Rules of Procedure reads and quotes, not always how fiscal politics is run. It's run countercyclically, so not procyclically. So, countercyclically, when you're in the growth phase, fiscal policy has to be restrictive and is in reverse. There are rules. Of course, it's the government's freedom to run the policy it wants, but it's undeniable that such a fiscal policy is being run.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49913	Thank you, Madam Minister. We move to the 8th point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BUDGETS SYSTEM You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Krasic, Rodojko Obradović, Milordan Mirović, Vladan Jerević and Dragan Dragan Dragan Dragan Dragović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49914	The Budgetary System Act and the violation of it in such a way that you have provided us with this transparent budget of 1.113 with six additional tax accompanying and necessary laws, speaks of the extent to which you respect transparency or our right to speak at all about this budget. Now I'm going to take the time to say something in the budget debate that I haven't arrived in the replica in a moment. Whatever debt it is, it's always brought back by Serbian citizens through the budget, whatever you methodically call it. In this budget they too, so-called. The gambling debts of the old foreign exchange jezda and Dafina, meaning, and those private ones you don't want to include, called it a consolidated debt state, public debt, eventually return through this budget. To come to what we say one day, this is an article in the first law we're talking about. In July of 2009, I said that you cannot be responsible for the implementation of the budget, as a single minister and as a minister, because you do not decide, or sign all orders for spending money. But what you're looking for in Article 1 is inadmissible. You are asking to deny the issue of funds from the budget to local self-governments and specific laws of established social security obligations, if you have any problem with the implementation of other law established. How can a commitment be more legitimate than someone else? Could it be a more legal obligation to repay the debt than the obligation to pay off someone by law? It's simply inadmissible, Mrs Dragutinovic. With this amendment, I request the removal of this attitude that you allow yourself to legally deny the payment of already established rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49915	You have three minutes and 30 seconds left. Member of the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49916	This is just a follow-up to a little earlier discussion. Basically, in this article you are changing powers, so that no more ministers will be in charge, but the Government and I can support it because the government has to decide these things anyway. But can there be any such provision where the Government should say - we do not enforce these laws? I don't think that authority can even have a government, because the Budgetary System Act is essentially a legal-technical regulation of fiscal policy. You cannot, by a single legal and technical regulation of fiscal policy, enter into something that is rights and obligations, the rights of citizens and the obligations of the state. If something needs to change in terms of scope, then change that material regulation, that law, rather than transfer discretion from the minister to the government, as if it were some larger guarantee. In translation, this means that local self-government can be left without those transfers that you will vote in the Budget Law, which belongs to, according to the Law on the financing of local self-government, and Đuro, and your pensioners may be left without the 230 billion transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget. (President: Don't, please, address the MP. I'm sorry, please, I don't understand what you're saying at all. (President: You spoke directly to the MP and I asked you not to do so. ( b) What MP did I address? (President: Will you continue? ( b) What MP did I address? I'd like to know if I've spoken to any MPs. (President: You will look at the stenogram if you have amnesia for a period from the near past. I don't have any ambition, just tell me who I spoke to. (President: Ambassador Gjury.) Who's Djury? (President: I hope you do. You know, and I don't know who Đura is. There's two of them. (President): Don't, please, talk to me like that. Please, we must respect the dignity of the Assembly. I understand your sense of humor, he's nice to all of us, but outside this room and this atmosphere, please. Go ahead, you have 30 seconds. You're playing a bigger Catholic than the Pope. Please, you don't have to do that. The two are called Đuro, Peric and the DS, which is not there. Now you recognize one of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49917	You have no more words. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, we'll see each other again, and we'll talk, since it's a very short time here, we'll talk about all those things you've opened up when we have time. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure give incomparably more rights to ministers than to MPs, so I have only two minutes plus two minutes for the parliamentary group. You invited us to vote for the budget and we would be very happy to do so if we knew what it says in that budget. Yesterday at 14.45 p.m., just before the debate on amendments began, we received an amendment that significantly changes the essence of both the tax system and the budget. Yes, the ruling majority has provided us with an amendment that abolishs the hotel service tax. In what way and what it says, nobody knows it's alive. Whether computers will be adopted or not, no one knows. I listened to my colleagues holding a press conference and they don't even know what to do with the PIO Act. If we knew what it says there today, when we finish the budget, we ended the budget debate, we don't know what it's about. As far as this amendment is concerned, I thought you'd accept it and I'm actually trying to preserve the credibility of the government. I suggested that the proposed member of the law be deleted. Why? Because this law has been passed, and this amendment defines pensions as due from January 1st to rise prices in the last six months. This law was passed only two months ago. Is it possible, since you gave us an interesting lecture from which we learned a lot, that you had no idea on October 12, you had no idea, three months had passed, if the last six months had passed, then it was the price increase since July 1st, so it's already been three months. When you adopted that law on 12 October and you defended it in a similar way with a similar lecture, is it possible that only two months later, it changes from the foundation? I'm actually trying to preserve your credibility. I'm saying, it's not possible, and I can't believe the government of my country has no idea what's going to be a month two ahead. I can't accept that. You say, no, it won't be that much, it'll only be 2%. We've concluded a few interesting things here. We concluded that we shouldn't spend, that's what one colleague explained to us, that I can't address him directly, that this program that we presented and saw a few days ago, that it's actually just a political programme of one party and that the government has nothing to do with it. That's perfectly logical, because there's no sign of that in the budget. We have concluded that the average pension is now 58% of the average salary. We've concluded that in agreement with the IMF, and he's asking himself much more here than MPs and the government, it says, that pensions will be 10% total...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49919	Your MP group no longer has time, just an authorised representative. Nenad Popovic is authorized, but you, as a deputy, can do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49920	What does that mean in translation? Since GDP is 3,400 billion and if this long-term agreement came into effect today, it also says in this same article that I propose to delete, pensions would be only 10% of GDP, which means 340 billion, and when translated into dinars, the average pension today, that is, when this takes effect with its full scope, will be 13,800 dinars. It's the ultimate instance and it's the ultimate desire of both this law and these laws that we're going to discuss today. There's no dilemma. If it's 10%, as you said, of the budget figure, it's mathematics and it's very simple. We fight it, because that law should define a lot of things, not just reduce pensions and make it impossible for people to live decently.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49921	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill that should increase salaries and pensions by 2% in 2011 and that is the proposal of the Serbian Government. In this amendment, I have proposed an increase to 12%. Why? Because in 2010 prices rise to low and inflation is somewhere between 10-12%. If we add that the salaries and pensions in 2009 were frozen and that the increase in prices to small and inflation was somewhere between 9.5 and 10%, we see how small they are. Why did the government define such a small increase? Look, I find it problematic and the way she wrote it in the draft of this law. It says this - individual salaries and pensions in December 2010 will increase by 2%. He can't do it in December. If we know the budget system, if we apply the provisions of the budget system law and if the budget year that starts on January 1st and ends on December 31st, then it can't be December. When I saw this, I thought it would be a real increase in December by 2%, and I suggested in my amendment 12% because this year inflation will be between 10 and 12%, and the price rises to a little bit between 11 and 12%, so that's a one-time increase. If you wanted to do that, you had to give a new rebalance so we could adopt it by the end of the year. You, in your explanation, say that's actually January. How in January, if you say December and do you see how bad that is from the point of view of language, norming legal regulations. When the authorities come out with information in December, what will pensioners and workers think?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49923	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49924	The situation with this amendment is very simple. There's a big difference between something that's nominal and something that's real in the area of social security, and PIO comes from that area. If you're nominally synchronizing pensions, then you're making some kind of bullshit statistic. If you really want to reconcile it, then you define yourself for something that costs your life. The government of the Republic of Serbia tells us that it is not enough for us to cut pensioners in amendments to the Law on PIO, but rather for us to do so in the transitional and final provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System, so they must have two guarantees that pensioners, as these are now, especially those of the future. You see, when the mania comes of its kind, then one minister says -- if the pensioners could get 5,000 dinars, the officers who faithfully served Boris Tadic's regime could get 10,000, and "a cricket," because those with 5,000 dinars couldn't even pay off the electricity debts, and so will these cops, because they'll be picked up for some debts immediately. Here's a dialect between something that's nominal and something that's real. I think there needs to be a real indexation in order for it to follow the cost of life, so that that money has some value. If you want to do this nominally, no law has to be passed. The existing PIO Act guarantees that for the next 16 years there will be no pension movement, so pensioners suffer, besides, you chose this government and you have to bear responsibility, because you have people like this in power. I congratulate you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, these two seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49925	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to agree on this book of the Arrival, "The Public Sector Economy", but it is obvious that we have drawn various conclusions that are not favourable for you, not for you personally, but for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not talking about Russia, because you said that this is not an example of comparison, although there are higher average salaries than in Serbia, although GDP will be higher there, so 4% will be and although foreign exchange reserves are around $500 billion. I agree with you, and I'm not going to talk about it, I'm going to talk about this amendment exactly, and I'm going to re-apply to this book that you've been talking about, and I'm going to refer to it again, too. I'm going to tell you that, right in America, which is the 359th to 388th, in 1935, the Social Security Act was passed and pensions were introduced in fact, and there was a huge increase in pensions with $80 billion at prices from 1997 to $ 365 billion. So pensions have increased, America has progressed, so nothing terrible will happen if you increase your pensions and if you do not stick to that stability pact that is not respected by the EU and you know it well. Not to quote a statement by Roman Prodi that it's a dogma that has nothing to do with reality. Also, as regards the expenditure on social security in America, they will increase from 1997 to the next 30 years from 9% to 20%, so this book gives us all the arguments that we are right and that we need to increase the pension rate, and in that sense, regardless of the fact that there is a crisis here and that productivity, and the growth of industrial production has not reached the level since 1998. So I ask you to answer this specifically because obviously this book gives us more arguments than you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49927	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49928	This amendment concerns Article 2. The draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, i.e. this position 8 relating to the period from 2013 to 2015, when the mass of the wage funds would be aligned with the sum of the consumer price growth rate foreseen for the current financial year and how you proposed half of the real GDP growth rate in the previous year, if that growth is positive. We in the SRS think this should be done with the GDP growth rate because I will only remind myself that we have the lowest wages, not only in the region, less than even Albania. That's what we've heard, but also in all of Europe, the salaries of workers in the state administration are about 20% lower than the Republic average, which is 34,000 dinars. What this government has designed is GDP in 2011 of 3%. If what you're proposing is accepted, it's only about 1.5%, and that's basically why we're against it. It is our desire, first of all, to motivate workers in some way and to make an attempt to make as much of that income equal to the average profit. This proposed legislative solution will certainly not have a positive impact on the management of public finances, and therefore we have amendments to each of the proposed members of this amendment and supplement law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49929	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49930	Gentlemen, I asked this change to bring the pension rate in line with the real GDP growth rate, not just the growth rate over 4%, between 2013 and 2015. Here, in an explanation, government representatives, wrote that this would not be adopted because such acceptance of the amendment would affect the increase in deficits, violation of the general fiscal rule on deficits and debt and specific fiscal rules. You see, Mrs Dragutinovic, we have a matter with general and special fiscal rules so certain that only two or three months ago you passed the Law on the fiscal, or budgetary system and fiscal responsibility, and then after two months you changed those same rules and general and special rules to adopt the budget. You did not adopt a budget based on the Budgetary System Act, but you changed the Budgetary System Act to adopt a budget that should unite who knows what kind of political ambitions. What interests me is to finish that controversy and debate just before Mrs Dragutinovic. This book Mr. Mirovic is invited to, and which you say is good, I haven't read. I promise I will. I don't argue that it says what's anticyclical, what's procyclical politics. I asked you, a very simple question, to tell me when, in the last ten years since the DS that has delegated you to the post of minister has come to power, in this country, a leading policy that is opposed to public spending, i.e. restrictive and which has been in function of economic growth. Although such a policy has been conducted, why ten years later you offer something new. How is it possible that you are now offering us a policy that will stimulate economic development and that will be thriftful, which will be restrictive, which will affirm savings. I have time for an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49931	Two minutes. You want to take advantage of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49932	How can you offer that now if you've run such a policy all these years? How is that possible? That simple answer is all we're asking. When have you been running a restrictive policy for the last ten years? You didn't even take her. Because if you had led her, Mrs Dragutinovic, you wouldn't be in the troubles you're in today. If you had kept an eye on public spending when you entered the country through investment, through privatisations as grants, you wouldn't be in the problem you are in today. Perhaps both objectively and in times of crisis you could deal with economic development. But you can't, and you know that I'm right. Now there's something else I want to tell you. How much do you as a government understand restrictive policy? Here shows one example I was talking about last night, which is the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. In 2010, the office had 160 million at its disposal. In 2011, 660 million. In 2010, she had 15 employees, in 2011 40 employees. In your explanation, the largest funds were allocated at the service position of 160, and in fact 400 and some million were foreseen for the jobs that she had ever set up under a regulation that she could not deal with and could not do. So much for your understanding. It's not your personal understanding. You know what's going on here, but as long as fiscal policy is subordinated to the political ambitions of those who blackmail the coalition, you'll be able to talk only theoretically about the books. The fact that you're talking touch points with relativity and life in Serbia today doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49933	Twenty-two MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49934	This article of the 61st basic law is the culmination of the government's incorrectness towards the citizens and the National Assembly. If you tell me that this provision existed in the Law, I will repeat it to you, I will never get used to the insolence, to the curse, to the untrue, nor to this amount of discretionary right in which you ask to deceive citizens under the law. Namely, you're asking to be approved, and under a different company called expenditure that you can reroute in the course of the year from one appraisal to the other you at the republican level, and that finance minister at a local level worth 5% of a certain apron. You are asking for the authority not to be a credible 5% budget and for us to grant it to you, for example, that we grant the purpose for wages, for subsidies, and that you spend on airline flights, on travel, on banking services, etc. You're saying in your explanation, we need this flexibility that when we form a new budget consumer over the year we can give money to it. I'd really like to cross over here again now and ask, when you're doing your budget in a year, if you have a plan to introduce it to us as new budget users. You're gonna hang someone up to us over the years. To remind you of last year's statements, one billion and three hundred million euros are without control in the authorities of the state administration, agencies and special institutions that are not in your system of consolidated account of the vault and which, based on public authority, spend the money of Serbian citizens. So how many times a year are you going to use this right? In addition to those discretionary rights you have from your regular and special budget reserves. It is not correct to ask that 5% of the 800 billion dinars, which is 40 billion on an annual basis, not to be able to account for it and to make it an overture and not even to be audited as illegal spending. Please withdraw this part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49935	Financial committee, pursuant to Article 157(6) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure, he tabled an amendment proposing that three new members be added after Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Immunity You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Joroganka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posturica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Dusan Marić, Milorad Buha, Milan Škrbić, Milorad Krstin, Vjerica Radačanića, Maja Miljanović, Miljanović, Milić and Žalić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49936	I managed to get the papers out for the next law, at which speed you read. So we're still arguing about whether this law is fair and I'm going to argue, and you challenge me if you can. Is it possible that this law can be just if more are paid by those who have less? Or are you going to tell me that there is no country where progressive taxation is legal, where, for example, that constitutional principle, for example, is in Italy and Spain? Are you going to tell me that this property tax bill actually allows people who have extra money to invest it in real estate and that renting them what is not taxed, recorded, illegal, is a fantastic source of money instead of investing in entrepreneurship, manufacturing and what we all insist on? This law and, for example, Article 3 is exactly what you do. You have prescribed that the value of the facility for obligors keeping business books is not determined in accordance with the general rules. So you bring them in this way into a privileged position and the word "marketable" should simply be deleted because it is not acceptable to establish a basis for taxation, because it depends on a number of elements that the owner of the immovable property cannot influence, nor does that value affect the useful value of immovableity. As you've limited the depreciation by amortization to only 40%, it's simply not acceptable, because it's far below the actual decline in the value of the amortized object. For example, it is not possible to reduce the value of a 100-year-old apartment building by age only 40%. With such a restriction, citizens of the weaker property are placed in a subordinate position and are disproportionately burdened with taxes. This is just one of the proofs of not being fair of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49937	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49938	The government has proposed to this member that the level of immovableity in the future be determined by the unit body of local self-government. The SRS has suggested that this solution be deleted, to remain an existing solution, for the reasons we believe that in most municipalities the authorities in charge of tax affairs are neither human, nor financially capable of doing this job in one valid way. The Government rejected this amendment with the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that that provision does not only regulate the competence of local self-government units, reduces the depreciation rate and maximum height, to which the value of immovableity can be reduced by depreciation, etc. But this is not true. The government messed up the pots. In Article 3. The government claims the exact opposite. I quote - the height of the immovableity value referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the authority of the unit of local self-government responsible for the determination, collection and control of the original income of the unit of local self-government. So, in Article 3. The bill, proposed by the government, says the local self-government unit authority is in charge of determining the collection and control of the original incomes of the local self-government unit, and in an explanation for the refusal of amendments argues otherwise. In order for municipalities to take over the new jobs the government trusts them with, most of them would have to hire new officials or educate existing officials. Both need money, and after the removal of 40 billion dinar transfers, most municipalities do not have the means to carry out current current underlying jobs, let alone take over new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49939	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Milorad Buha again? I'm sorry, it's Milan Skrbić, his amendment. My amendment to Article 4? ) You submitted the amendment to Article 4 and explained it. (Dusan Maric: No, now I've explained number 3, and number 3 always comes before number 4, if it doesn't come to amnesia. I'm sorry, please, I thought you were talking. Mr. Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49940	When the initiative on the change of tax rules began in 2009, then the minister, and the current minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, said that the existing tax system is unfair and that it is necessary to implement a comprehensive tax reform that will cover everything that is corrupting in the tax system. Since the tax system is very complex, tax reform is necessary. Furthermore, Mrs Dragutinovic, on several occasions in the media, presented certain facts that stand, that she is unfair because the poor pay more than they pay the richer. In this direction, we expected this regulation to be far more comprehensive, that there would be a serious analysis behind it. From what we've got, this is a cosmetic change and there's no analysis behind it. What is problematic is that Mrs Dragutinovic and individual representatives of the government, including the president of the state, said they would move towards taxation of the Shore Company. Mrs Dragutinovic comes out with the next sentence explaining why she will not tax the company's shorts, she says - there is no capacity for the tax administration. Look, we in the state budget fund 400,000 people. Is that a small number? Can't we find enough people in the IRS to do administrative and fiscal jobs for the needs of the state, etc? So we're going to have to get another hundred thousand, two hundred thousand employees employed by the state administration, so we're going to have to tax the shorts of the company. Is that what we need? You don't have to. We need a comprehensive law that will result from a serious analysis of the tax system. We didn't do that analysis. As a government, you're in power for 30 months, 30 first month, you didn't make it. You're announcing, and you're not doing anything. That's the problem with this. These are cosmetic changes that will not be good for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49941	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone who mentions taxes is immediately thought that the state wants to charge and fill its budget and take money from someone. Now I'm going to give two examples where the state doesn't comply with the law that it passed on its own on September 31st, 2009, the Law on the Transposal of Absolute Rights. I'll set an example. I know the Minister knows what this is about. It's about selling 100% "Apathian Beer" Apatin stock. With this amendment I've made, I just wanted to define something. However, I expected the government to submit an amendment to clarify and define the very law. But that's not gonna happen. In fact, what happened? The property tax law, in order to cover the situation with a legal person, and the municipality can charge that part of the tax that remains in fact to local self-government. I also have a sales contract right here in front of me, and I have a solution to the New Now Tax Administration about what the state had to do. I also have a request where we're looking for an act of law. However, the explanation of the finance ministry and others is simply amazing, where the state disowns, in this case half a billion dinars that are to belong to local self-government. Since we only have two minutes, it's not possible to absorb everything, because the subject is ensnared by the claim, along with experts dealing with taxes, that we're right, that I'm right, and that the SRS is right, and this case doesn't go out of date in the next five years, so there will be a lot of questions, to explain these problems that the state has denied half a billion to belong to the Municipality of Apatin, on behalf of some regulations and allegations that no brewery has been sold, but only action, some worthless securities on the market. But that's funny. Time, time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49943	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Srdjan Miljkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49944	We really look just as funny when we're in such a hurry as you, President, to speak quickly and to say what needs to be said and to all of us. We find it totally unacceptable to charge real estate taxes on apartments and family homes where people live and use them for housing. Not for renting and publishing, but a roof over his head must not be a privilege. If we've lost our right to work and if the state doesn't create an environment where people can get a job and have income, do you know the old saying in which it's said "naked walls don't eat", have you forgotten how many people have come to apartments at all? The largest number of people came to apartments at low prices and never had family empires and incomes that could satisfy appetites increased the appetites of an excessive and inefficient state. You are literally on the verge of questioning the existence of hundreds of thousands of poorest citizens. And you simply expect that unprepared people to whom you have not announced the application of this law, that they will eventually decide whether to move out, for example, from downtown Belgrade and go to the periphery and live from the price difference, although a debate on the property tax law has been under way since April 2009. You have not announced but will enter into force from 1 January 2011. How people can recalculate, organize and sell or make them offer everything from once to the price of real estate. Have you considered bringing into line a progressive rate of taxation of assets with otherwise regressive VAT taxes and excise duties to be the most paid by those who have the least but are the largest number? That's because you're being taught theory and you should know it from books, and that's what all those who are serious about this law warned you about, and here's what we're warning you about with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49945	The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, ma'am, Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49946	The amendment concerns the existing Article 13(1), and the amendment that I have submitted reads: "the tax on the rights laid down in Article 2 of this Act on buildings or flats is reduced by 20% for each minor child". The adoption of this amendment would result in a fairer solution to the taxation of citizens, where it would make it easier for families with small children and those who are just starting a family. In this way, the taxes of those who are yet to acquire property would be reduced, above all, the living space that is the necessary condition for the life of every man and especially just-based families. The government approached property tax changes due to the alleged fairer distribution of the tax burden by expanding the subject of taxation, reducing the depreciation rate of immovableity, reducing the reduced depreciation rate from 70% to 40% to certain categories of taxpayers and reducing the amount of tax credit to the owners of the apartment. While all the more valuable assets of the companies that have grown have not been donated to foreigners and tycoons for commission, this authority, more specifically Mladjan Dinkic, has sought different depreciation of assets, one to determine the true value at the end of the year, and the other for tax purposes. This means that the amortised assets of the company have a higher value than those shown in the tax balance. Turns out the property isn't worth much, but it's worth it when it's taxed. This amortization principle will probably apply until the Telecom is sold, then countries in attractive locations, or until citizens finally realize all the persuasion of such a solution to the exercise of power. How can such taxation be just? How can an increase in tax rates or a reduction of tax exemptions be considered fair? When all this is connected to the base prices of building land, it's no wonder we have the price of one square of real estate, especially apartments higher than in Japan. Justification of some compliance with EU laws makes no sense, such as no sense or comparison...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49947	Thank you. The 10th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukkovic and Srdjan Mikovic. Vice President Gordana Comic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49948	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I submitted with counterpart Natasa Vučković and Srdjan Mikovic concerns the determination of taxes, i.e. tax credit and reduction for the taxpayer. With the hope that the amendment with the correction will get the majority in our assembly, I want these two minutes, as much as I have for the amendment and the time of my parliamentary group to try to earn your attention about what the essence of the Property Tax Act is and why we have dealt with both amendments and additions to the property tax law and added value. Very rarely and insufficiently, we've shared here the fact that this is the income of our local self-government. Our local self-government that, as well as other local self-governments in the world, the modern and developed world, European states, live off property taxes. The problem is, as with the national state or central government and local self-government, to determine the best possible and upper limits and rates remaining on the responsibility of local self-government, to regulate them, so that the revenues would be used in local self-government budgets across Serbia for what there are programmes and policies in cities and municipalities in Serbia. It is our idea to send a message that even at the level of local self-government, just as in the national parliament, it takes care of the ability of citizens to pay that tax at all, but that they understand why the tax is paid. It's already been said why as citizens, we're sensitive to property taxes. We don't feel any other types of tax during the day, we don't feel what VAT is on a particular product, we don't feel what the tax is on the fiscal account, because it's included in the price of the product and we have that psychological feeling – I've given some money, so I got something in return for that money, and there's some tax that I don't know what it is and I don't even feel like I'm paying that tax. When it comes to property tax, it means at least once a year, or more times a year in wars, you have to get out of your home budget to take out cash and pay in your local tax administration as much as your local self-government has determined under this law. It's a key thing why citizens are sensitive to property tax with full rights. What is our intention? Indeed, with these amendments, or amendments with an amendment, that amount that we should pay, living in cities and municipalities in Serbia, is tolerable. But more importantly, living in these cities and municipalities, we understand why we pay that property tax, to understand what that money is spent on by us living in cities in... People's MPs earn not to say - what, what. They're absolutely right, in Vojvodina it's said – which he can't get out of speech and almost anything. Thank you. It's so literaryly correct, and it's probably gonna get away from me again, you can't get Vojvodina out of a girl. That's what they say. So, what does the money collected on the name of the property tax go for? What is more important, if we try to send a message together, that it is on citizens, as well as on councils in cities and municipalities in Serbia, also to check whether the money collected from the property tax, with an upper limit of 0.4% and with rates determined by local self-government, is being spent well? In my view, it's a key thing that starts, that institutions really work for us, that we don't lose ourselves in general places, writing compositions, descriptions of the situation and sentences -- what would happen if there were in vain bumps in endless attempts to show that someone else is worse than us, and that makes us look better in our local self-government, in our political party or in our country. It's a key idea for me, which should be discussed when it comes to property tax. What are the problems, when it comes to not only changing? Of course, we're not changing the upper rate and we expect all local self-government, it's one paradox. All local self-governments in Serbia say -- we do not have enough income. I could estimate that most local self-government will go below the maximum of 0.4%, because they will estimate or cannot collect property tax or simply have no one to collect from. The essence of decentralisation comes down to how much income you can collect from the territory that you are entrusted with management, so that you can fulfill the social and all other purposes that any public administration has at any level. In return, of course from towns and municipalities in Serbia we will get the right, but with full right, criticism - why we do not have the laws on the property of municipalities and cities and property of the province of Vojvodina and when there will be this law and perhaps this property tax law was a good prelude that at some public hearing, if not at the plenary session, we will talk about how we will bring the best possible property law in the property of cities and municipalities, or the Region of Vojvodina. Finally, one general remark, because very often during the plenary session here, we are a party state that makes party budgets and in which party democracy is ruled, in this sense a society that has become completely entrenched in separating from party leadership of the state. No one has come up with a better mechanism to manage society and the state than political parties. There was an experiment called one party, so whether it's a working, communist or whatever, or a socialist alliance of the working people, which wasn't a party, so if you compare how long the institutions of political parties are, and how many one-party ideas, except for North Korea, I still don't believe that any of us would move with good faith to North Korea, because there are no parties there, there's only one party there. Why am I bringing this up in the property tax debate? Because it's only about being a party state, so sometimes we'll stop being a party state, at least, that's why I'm talking. Political parties exist in all countries, political parties affecting budget profiles, political parties offering politics, political parties winning power in national or local or regional parliaments. I think we have completely misdirected the edges of our criticism, when we talk about Serbia and qualify it as a party state. We should talk about parties, not Serbia, and that's a significant difference, and if we could talk about property taxes on debates to start talking about whose practical policy, very much like that of Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, I have to say impeccably, with pleasure it was to listen to this defence budget, talk about what a budget would look like if the wishes of all parliamentary groups, i.e. the party, were to be classified, so we should also talk about property taxes from the corner of each individual party, so let's see what local self-governments would look like. Our proposal is – leave the upper rate of 0.4, but increase the tax credit and find that it decreases 50% for the property in which the debtor lives. With the hope that we will get the necessary majority for this amendment, with the gratitude that you have listened to me, I hope that our debates will have some other tones in the future, other than those we are used to listening to and which are quite unproductive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49949	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49950	In Article 13 of the current law, the Government proposes a new position, which I will quote – if there are more persons in the building or apartment, every obligor who lives in that building or apartment is entitled to a reduction of the established tax. Now, if this solution remains, we're really going to have a series of absurd situations. Now I'm going to imagine one. We have a taxpayer, a heavy poor man. He only owns a garage out of property. No pay, no savings, no money to pay for the heating, to buy food, to pay for the electricity. He was simply forced to move, to live with his parents in the country. He does not have the right under this law to tax this property. In his apartment next door, a five-person, luxuriant apartment, lives a taxpayer who has 10 more apartments. Rents those apartments, has a 5m-euro savings and five private companies he earned in this thieving privatisation of yours, because he had close friends in the DS. He will be released from one part of the tax under this law. It's just not exactly in good relationships with common sense. For this reason, we in the SRS have proposed to delete these words: "which in that building or apartment resides" so that only this formulation remains: "if there are more taxpayers on one building or apartment, every taxpayer has the right to reduce the established tax". It can't be an apartment in a residential building, but exclusively property over these facilities, it can be the basis for tax determination. In an explanation for the rejection of this amendment, the Government says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 10. The draft law does not regulate the elements of the impact on tax determination. On the contrary, this is one element – whether the owner lives in the apartment or not. I really think this is too high and you should accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49951	Thank you. The 10th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragoljub Micunovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 11. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49952	This Article 33 provides that the 2011 property tax will be determined by applying the provisions of this law at a rate of 0,30 % in respect of land, or 0,40 % in other immovableities, unless local self-government is decided within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law to determine lower rates. Madam Minister, although at first glance it seems that leaving the local self-government at will to reduce the tax rate, that's one fair thing, it's just at first sight and it's just creating such an illusion. The constitution stipulates that paying taxes is one general obligation and that taxes are paid according to economic power. I ask you, will this constitutional norm be satisfied when we put two municipalities in a plane, one more developed, one undeveloped? It is normal that because of the economic situation and the ambience in which the municipality is developed, it can allow itself to reduce this rate below 0.30% and below 0.40%, respectively. What happens in that case? This undeveloped municipality because of the poor charge of its budget cannot reduce this rate and then we will come into a simple situation that these people in the undeveloped municipality who are poorer pay property tax at a higher rate than those in the developed municipality, so if that was your intensity, then it is clear why you did not accept this amendment. Otherwise, otherwise, you should have accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49953	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 34th amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49954	We can call this discussion a public hearing, we can call a panel, we can call a debate, but citizens ask, when they pay the property tax, what do we get for it. It's something they give to get something back. Mrs. Minister, first of all, you did not go from the provisions of the Constitution which says that tax is a general category, but also says it is cut and determined according to the economic power of the individual. If I do not speak correctly, please read the provision of Article 91(2). The constitution, so you'll see that it's written, just like that. When you, in article 34 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, say that in 2011, there will be no more than 60% of what was in 2010 and you think you did some service to the citizens of Serbia, it is absolutely not true. Very little, and even from local self-government, something is conscious, something is the inability of those who run local self-government, and something because of the large number of devastated municipalities in Serbia, they can't do, so there's no quality drinking water, so there's no sewerage, so there's no city streets, so there's nothing. That's what they expect when they pay property taxes and other taxes. But in return, they don't get it. What did you predict when the events of the elemental disasters as we had the King, as we had Prepolje, Ljubovija, Loznica, Bogestic? Will the citizens be released from some taxes in the period until what happened to them is resolved? He won't. On 8 December 2010, although a few days earlier it was said that public revenues were 11% higher than planned during that period by the tax administration in these areas, in these areas, the municipalities that were affected by the flood were ordered by the directors of the tax administration and the proceeds to leave, to list everything, all taxpayers who owed more than thousands of dinars, to give them a notice and to pay that tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49955	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49956	Dear Chairman, why is this amendment unacceptable? So, if someone is to say that we should protect citizens from excessive taxes, this member of the law right now makes that sense. So anyone who paid the tax in 2010 cannot pay a tax in 2011 that is greater than 60% of the amount he paid in the previous year. You're looking to erase that member, claiming that you want to protect the interest of the citizens. So this member is protected by the citizens' interest, because they cannot pay more than 60% of what they paid in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49957	Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The 34th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to article 35 refers to a tax to be paid in the conversion of lease rights into property rights to building land. This member, as proposed by the Government, is in fact the legalisation of the status of purchased enterprises of previously deliberately destroyed tycoons, which owned large areas of building land and which would have to pay a huge tax in the conversion of rights of use or the lease of property rights. That's why you've come to realize that you're doing this beautifully in article 35 and allowing hundreds of millions to stay in the tycoon pocket instead of the state register. On the other hand, by selling this attractive land, they will only gain enormous profits so that it is not clear to Serbian citizens that the state does not have the courage to take what belongs to it from financial powers. Instead, you're in charge of the state because of the deficit. You are destroying the wealth of the Serbian state. In order to conceal your true intentions, you have skillfully placed in the same basket and tycoons and impoverished citizens that you have graciously freed from inheritance taxes and gifts that are minor, contrary to the Astronic, which are to be paid by tycoons. I am convinced that the full amount of taxes that the citizens would pay on inheritance and the gift would not amount to a tenth of the taxes they would have to pay by those who came to a costly building land worth tens of millions of euros for which they paid taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, which is disproportionate to the real value of the land. The example is Luka Belgrade and speaks enough about the justification of this amendment. In this article, you could clearly put a limit between citizens who pay inheritance and gift taxes and free them, and those who acquire property rights beyond inheritance and gifts, to be adequately taxed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49959	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax Act on the Addendum of Value. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Arsen Đurić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Janković, Ivan Andrejic, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popović, Bojan Đurić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Buha, Milorad Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milos Aligrudić, Edip Sheriffov, Marko Đurišić, Dragan Šormaz and Dragan Stevanovic and the amendment of the Finance Committee. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before moving to the search in particular, I remind you that MP Bojan Kostreš has withdrawn the amendment and the correction of the amendments he has submitted to Article 1. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the draft law in particular on Article 1 of the amendment in the same text by MPs Arsen Đurić and together Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49960	The Honorable Representation, Madam Minister, as soon as the draft VAT law arrived from the government to the Assembly, I submitted an amendment requesting that the VAT rate not be increased to the southern fruits, computers and accommodation services in hotels, resorts, motels and other accommodation facilities, aware of the negative effects this increase would have caused. I must stress that Serbia and now with the tax rate, I will particularly refer to hotel services, i.e. accommodation services, that Serbia and now with a tax rate of 8% fall within the order of countries that have one of the highest rates in Europe. By increasing to 18%, do not turn your head, Mrs Dragutinovic, the average VAT tax rate on accommodation in Europe is 7.2%, ranging from 5.5% to 10% in Croatia. That's the truth and that's the data. That's gotta be the way it is. You probably wouldn't accept it if it didn't increase that VAT rate from 8 to 18% if it wasn't. If I didn't talk about the fall in traffic that would have caused this increase, because this year alone, we had a turnover drop of over 500,000 overnights, and an imminent increase in taxes from 8% to 18% would have led to a 10% increase in prices. But what's funny is that a few days later, when you are under pressure from public, professional associations, hotel and restaurant associations, you realize that this is not exactly the most popular measure, individual ministers, MPs of the ruling majority and ministers in the government boast that they have managed not to increase VAT rates. I really don't know who they were fighting? With you? You said that all government ministers voted to raise VAT rates from 8% to 18%, so that now, thanks to them, they would have a situation not to increase. You have not accepted any amendments to the opposition, but, of course, the Finance Committee has proposed not to increase the rate. I really don't have a comment on that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49961	The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49962	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, it is a little strange to discuss this amendment that we have submitted to Article 1, and we do not have the Government's opinion on our amendment. In the material we received, the amendment we submitted on behalf of the LDP was absolutely not treated, so it would be good at the very beginning to hear Mrs. Minister who is the Government's opinion on our amendment. Secondly, I think it's much more important that we finally hear what the government's position is about increasing VAT on computers, hotel accommodations and south fruit. You, at the very beginning, when I say you mean the Serbian government, have heartily defended the increase in VAT base from 8% to 18%, so that a few days after that you would be hearty against it. As we could hear, you even said you fought to keep that VAT level at 8%. But we don't understand at all, either for us or for the citizens of Serbia, what is the final position of the Serbian government? Is it possible that a minister, a deputy prime minister of the government, says -- if VAT is increased to hotel services, that he will release 300 million dinars, his ministry, to make up for it? It's a party state. The party state is not because Serbia is a multi-party state, but because the budget is being decided in party cabinets, because all public enterprises are headed by party people, not people. The party state is the country that does everything to satisfy the ratings of the ruling parties. What's aggravating is that you as the ruling coalition have not created this party state, but you seem very little to have this party state changed. Today we also have a statement or a statement from a representative of a parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament that they are angry because some amendments to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act have submitted some other parties, and they are not, because it is not agreed. It's a party state. It's a party budget. We need to talk about all these issues openly. We are the country that has the worst economic policy in the region, as much as you, Madam Minister, are surprised at that. Because the level of foreign direct investment in the first ten months of 2010 is almost at the same level as the level of foreign investment in Montenegro, which is 15 times lower than we are. And we have as a state perhaps the best incentive to attract foreign investment from all countries in the region. This is what the LDP constantly insists on – that trust is much more important in the economy of numbers. And the confidence of investors in the state of Serbia is gone. I ask you once again to answer me as chairman, and you, Madam Minister, why in the government's opinion does not have an opinion on our amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49963	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49964	Dear Chairman, if someone claims that the party state is because the MPs are using their right to submit amendments, regardless of whether they belong to the ruling majority who supports the government or the opposition and that they are trying at the same time to create conditions for these amendments to be adopted, if we consider these amendments to be good and that they will improve the law and that something will ultimately do good to the citizens of Serbia and then someone declares it a party state, I don't really understand what the party state is. We have submitted amendments, on the one hand, asking that the VAT level on computers and computer equipment is not rising and that we could fight for these amendments, or that we could get most of those amendments, we had to do something else. Since the government planned revenue in the budget on the basis of an increase in VAT for catering and hotel services and for computers, we had to make an agreement with the government on where to replace those funds that would be reduced if these amendments were accepted. So there's nothing party or non-solid about it, so to speak. So there is an estimate of some MPs and MPs that it would be good, because of the need for computers and computer equipment to be more accessible to citizens, because of the need to develop tourism in Serbia, that VAT on these two items does not increase. In our talks with the government, we have sought ways to find some of the government's revenues based on the increased VAT on the other side, so that we can vote on these amendments in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49965	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49966	Thank you. So it's a luxury for you if someone buys oranges, lemons or Mandarins. Dear citizens of Serbia, since the new year, when you want to have tea, take this piece of paper nicely and squeeze it into a teacup, because there will be a tank of Vitamica C, because this is lemon for you now. For you, luxury is probably milk. That's why he's not in Serbia. For you, it is luxury and medicine, a Sanitary material – which is why they are not in Serbia. But it's not a luxury for you to spend taxpayers' money on trips, planes, cabinets, so some government members have two cabinets and double expenses. It's not a luxury. And the luxury is the south fruit. I congratulate you, Madam Minister, on these laws. You care very much about the health of the Serbian population.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49967	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49968	Almost all the amendments are identical to those submitted to this bill, because we want to keep stamping something that can be called stupidity. Because after what's been done, the question is if there's any more of this bill. But there's another topic here. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are obliged to pay a very high VAT rate, all of which is the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and then they reach there, and one of them realizes that he is such a boss that he encourages certain parts of the economy from these funds. It's much better to take the VAT rate from 18% to 14% and be both father and mother to the full economy, not to come to you in front of the office to beg and kneel, and the one from 8% to 6%. In an objective way, avoid the development functions of budgets that are direct intervention in the economy and everything will be regulated for you. You'll be grateful to the economy. Like this, you're acting like some Santa Claus, because you're walking around and then selectively dividing only the chosen ones. This measure that I propose fully fits our current state. It is not a problem to increase the deficit, it is not a problem and to increase the debt, in order to ensure full employment. But then you cut these taxes and other taxes, so other production organizers have lower costs, lower fixed costs, and they can also follow you into employment. You won't, and you won't, because your boss didn't design you for the job. He designed you for total destruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49969	Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by the People's MPs Milorad Buha and together Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49970	Thank you, Madam President. The DSS parliamentary group's amendment aimed at preventing an increase in VAT rates from 8% to 18% on computers and hotel services. I think that the public reaction itself pointed to the execution and harmfulness of this decision and simply led the ruling coalition to consider revising this decision. This decision in practical terms would mean an increase in the average cost of computers from 3,000 to 10,000 and hotel services for, say, 2500 dinars per night. So much for the availability of a computer for young people. So much for schooling and so much for the information society, etc. The whole situation has also been given the character of the soap opera these days. First, the government adopted a proposal at its session to increase the VAT rate from 8% to 18% for the above products. Then some ministers who voted in favour of the decision at the cabinet's session themselves criticised what they voted for. Then the finance minister said that it was no problem for this increase to be achieved, but that it was necessary to do so in the process of making the budget. Then, MPs of the ruling majority submit an amendment that is of course identical to ours and with the same meaning. I have a feeling that the government, however, will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the ruling majority MPs. In the end, the ruling coalition will turn out to have defeated itself and saved citizens from increasing VAT on computers and hotel services. (President: I thank you. In that case, you'll have a satisfaction. I'll use group time, which I have left. (President: You'll use time? You've got 45 seconds left. That's right. It is also interesting to see what is behind this intention. I think this is a kind of understatement of citizens and that behind this is a much more need for a marketing effect than, indeed, for the benefit of citizens. Otherwise, this increase would not have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49971	Mrs. Hope Kolundji. I'm sorry. First of all, Mr. Buha as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49972	As counterpart Krasic said, the question is what is left of this skeleton called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act? This law has gone through all the procedures that are laid down positively by legal regulations. So, from the board, the subcommittee, the commission, the government. The government passed this law. The Assembly committees passed this law. The law passed in principle in this House, and then all of a sudden, when the public raised their voice, all of a sudden we're all washing ourselves, we're all running away from it, like it's like I don't know what. In fact, this is all about political volunteerism, which is the government in Serbia, the insecureness of the government, the insecureness of the ministries that propose this, and behind it all stands and lacks a comprehensive reform in the tax system. The reform can come from only one serious analysis of the tax system. Mrs Dragutinovic, last year, in 2009, in that crisis, you came out with one of your initiatives to increase VAT. The next day, the economy and regional development minister said there was no VAT increase. Other ministers also said -- that's not why it's coming and that, etc. At the moment that there have been some shifts in relation to this law, the Minister of Economy and Regional Development comes out with the next sentence – I give up my 300 million to save the system, to save certain companies that are in huge problems. The Minister of Economy and Regional Development cannot act the way he acts. Only this Parliament can do that. This Parliament creates – monetary policy, financial policy, etc. No, it's not the jurisdiction of those ministries. Mrs Dragutinovic, when such information appears, you as an expert in your field, as finance minister, must warn your colleague, that he has jumped out of his jurisdiction and that he cannot do what he does.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49973	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49974	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if anyone submits amendments for marketing reasons, that's his right. What I'm trying to say here is that we have submitted amendments and made an effort to get our amendments to support this House. If you think that we have done this by submitting amendments and looking for ways to replace the missing funds because we want our amendments to be accepted. If you think that we will vote for our amendments just because they are ours, then you have a chance to at least come to the vote and vote for your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49975	National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Edip Sheriffs and Marko Djurisic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Comić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49976	Thank you. The colleagues of Oedipus Sheriffs and Marko Djurisic submitted an amendment that is both on the subject and on the idea of staying on the 8% VAT when it comes to computers and parts of computer equipment, for the simple reason it is considered good and was one of the decisions we proposed in 2008. Of course, I support the idea of better measuring VAT, or value added tax. I find it overwhelming to comment on two things in an attempt to gain the support of all of us for this amendment. As for the vote, the National Assembly has always voted for all amendments in the same text. If you had attended the vote, then you could have witnessed it. It is something that is also this stage of the period of development of parliamentaryism, because it is considered freedom and parliamentary behaviour not to participate in the debate or not to participate in the vote. When it is some time, then we will all understand that this has nothing to do with parliamentaryism, but it is necessary that we pass experiencedly. And other countries went through it, until they actually made our institution the way it is. When it comes to identical amendments in the same text, then all are adopted as one, regardless of when one is submitted and read in the voting day. Why do I find it interesting to comment? Because no one will consider, when they pronounce a sentence, that the rate envisaged for the increase is reduced under public pressure. He says it's, at least, what? It's the best thing you can say as a feature of someone who's a ruling coalition, to have a sensitivity to the public. Whatever the public may be, however much your opposition may be, it stands as the truth amazing, because in the same sentence you will put – the ruling coalition is dropping, under the pretext, or proposing an amendment return, keeping the rate to 8%, because the public asked for it. Then you will say, "You do not listen to the people." He can't do both. We either listen very carefully to what the public says and act like it, or we don't listen. It is the same stage of parliamentaryism in which we must survive the unproductive debates completely, because we must. Why can't it be experienced? Can't do that copy-past process, since we're already talking about computers. It is the same as non-productive criticism – you change laws. The general idea is that the laws of difficulty are passed where the promoter is, and that this assembly exists to change them. That's why there's a congregation. I know MPs who resent and earn, do it for a reason, because they don't know. We just heard that the government is running fiscal and monetary policy. Don't lead. The government runs fiscal policy, and the NBS runs monetary policy. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: "What about the IMF?" 54/1MP/TJ19.55-20.05 Please do not throw. I can go with you and throw it away. It's no problem. It's not hard for me to share all the information we have and make it better together. So the government is responsible for fiscal policy with our support. The National Bank is responsible for monetary policy, an independent body. The IMF, in co-operation with the National Bank and with the Government, takes care of our country's ratings on fiscal and monetary responsibility. The good news is that in this region Serbia has been assessed as a country with exceptional fiscal responsibility. Please don't ever realize that I'm praising the government and my friends who are members of the government exactly know that I'm not, because it's not done, it teaches you not to praise the one you support, or to think that the VAT system is faultless, especially if you ask those who have to pay. They will quickly list how they have difficulty paying VAT and what they have against in the structure of those who need to do and control VAT collection. But what I want to pay attention to in the request and the proposal to support this amendment, my application and appeal is to listen when we criticise what some other people are doing. So, if you say in criticism, or what you think you call criticism, ask to keep the VAT at 8%, see, they listen to the public in Serbia, then we have a problem with the elemental knowledge of the public's importance for political parties, for parliamentary groups or for the government. When can the amendment in the Assembly pass? When the opposition and the ruling majority agree on it. How many amendments has the opposition proposed so far? One more than the ruling majority, and the government adopted. It's proof to you that the government doesn't know what it's doing. To me, it is proof that there are enough of us on the part of the ruling majority who will always support the amendment proposed by anyone from the opposition, to advocate for that amendment both before the government and at the National Assembly session, only if the public supports such an amendment of the opposition or not. It happened that we have an amendment that we agree on, that's our requirement for the VAT on the computers to remain 8%. The particular theme, I end up with, is that I would like to listen publicly to all of us who regard ourselves as scientists and all those who really know what was once called a trade margin, and what doesn't seem to exist now, just seemingly, and in fact it's a price that can't be controlled by the government and shouldn't be controlled by the government, but we MPs can talk about whether it's okay and whether we can maybe change something in the way that traders make an independent of VAT and independent of the rules that the government makes fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49977	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49978	I couldn't wait to get up, this whole thing we heard... Article 162. Rules of Procedure, Mr President, please open. The amendment contains paragraph 3. – the solution proposed, paragraph 4. – an explanation containing an explanation of the proposed solution and the objective to be achieved. This amendment, by the way, Mr. Hajdarevic, your amendment did not receive the government's opinion. This amendment has received the government's opinion and my amendment, with correction, has not received the government's opinion. So, the government's opinion didn't come. If it had come, this couldn't have gotten in the process. Gentlemen, an incorrect amendment, please, Mrs Dejanovic, the Legislative Committee has not done its job. This is an incorrect amendment. Point 11 is: hotel accommodation services, motels, resorts, homes and camps, and 7a are personal computers and components. It says here, so, Mrs. Oedipus Sheriffov and Marko Djurisic, to delete point 11 – hotels and this and that, and in reason it says computers. So this amendment can't be voted on. If it's voted by the ruling majority, today who knows which way I'm helping the ruling majority, I don't know what this is, some other amendment should be voted on. Gentlemen, if you want to be returned to computers and VAT and hotels, you have to vote for one of the amendments, let's say mine, which predicts both. This one doesn't predict it. This is an incorrect amendment. We've heard so many stories now about the ruling majority, and this is wrong. My colleagues, I totally understand, because if we got it, Madam Minister, 13 laws in two days and you're talking about who would lead it and pretend that we're discussing... (President: Time. Thank you. Isn't it three minutes in the Rules of Procedure? (President: No, two minutes. You live in the past tense. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49979	Since the Legislative Committee has not given its opinion, the amendment is the subject of discussion and we will declare it in the voting day. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz. Reapply for time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49980	I'll pick up where I left off. If in two days we have received 13 laws and budgets, of course the MPs have sinned when submitting the amendments, and you want to see what the budget would look like to have someone come to power and that's still an argument for you earlier. I can tell you for the first time, if I respected a minister in this government, it was you. Tonight you let me down by taking it as an argument to answer the opposition. So you left us two days for the budget and another 12 laws. You see, the ruling majority MPs miswritten the amendment. I wrote it wrong too, so I had to make a correction, thank God I got you in time, but I also noticed this mistake. Only this amendment if you adopt can the VAT be reduced. Not even an amendment to the Finance Committee, because it only predicts computers, not computers and hotels. That's one. Under two, in 2008, 450,000 personal computers were sold in Serbia, 2009 – 370,000, 2010 – 350,000. It's trendy, it keeps falling. If you raise the VAT, it'll be even smaller. Where's the EU story for that? Those are your promises. In five years, all schools, all children will have a computer on the bench across the EU's territory. Where are we? Far from it. If we're gonna raise the VAT, when are we gonna do it? We can't do this budget anyway. You promised "Fiat", you promised the EU, you promised 1,000 euros per share, you promised, gentlemen of the DS, you had a billboard in 2008 in the campaign, and in 2007, it was reduced to 8% -- the removal of VAT on computers. It's one of your election promises, and now you've increased from 8% to 18%, your ministers voted it out. What promise will you make to the citizens of Serbia at any time?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49981	Thank you. The People's MP, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49982	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not think the amendment to the MPs of the People's Council is incorrect. So if the text of the law that we are now discussing and which we are submitting amendments is that point 7a) and 11) are deleted and that, by doing so, from the basic law, where they were with the 8% VAT, they are deleted from the basic law by 8% and applied to them 18%, the exact amendment, if you want to exempt from this computer law, is that point 11 is deleted, so that the computers remain at an old rate of 8%. I'm sorry, but you're wrong. This is the correct amendment because it is about the text of the law being – point 7a) and 11) being deleted from the basic text of the law which they cover by 8%. If you want to return the computers, the amendment must read point 11) delete. I'm sorry, but that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49983	Thank you. You have two minutes left, only you can within that time, if you like. You will. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49984	What you said is not true because it's written and written in front of you, now take 162 again, so look at attitude 2, it says nice – changes and additions to the law. So the amendment was written on amendments and additions, not on the basis of the law. So when you delete 11, you're left with an increase to 7a. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49985	Please, gentlemen, you cannot communicate with each other. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Finance Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49986	There are no fundamental differences, so you don't have to treat Mrs. Dejanovic specifically. Look what it's all about. I think the fundamental question here is whether this will bring something different, something good and whether this approach should be partial, when it comes to amending and supplementing tax law, or VAT. The essence of this whole story and the essence of the problem that it was easier for the government to deal with rates than with basics and that is the general problem, VAT and not just VAT on these three things, but generally VAT in Serbia. What the problem was or is the problem, and as far as this law is concerned, you haven't considered the possibility of achieving the goals you expect in a different way. I ask you, Mrs Dragutinović, where from a billion and a half, and are you sure that by introducing these rates you will provide a billion and a half. You are sure, but as you design budgets and previous rebalancing, it turns out that you design and plan very badly at the beginning. There's no budget your government has brought that hasn't suffered a rebalancing. It says how well you plan and how well you project. Then you wrote in your explanation that it would potentially affect the price increase of the goods and services in question, not potentially affecting it, but certainly affecting the price increase, so you wrote about how it would affect the citizens. Since it will likely affect the increase in the retail prices of the southern fruit, it means that this increase will certainly affect retail prices, and this is not an area where consumption is so high, that at this point you have to deal with it, this is nonsense and this country expects a serious debate in the comprehensive tax reform. These are just patching holes, which you don't even know where you got 'em anymore. It was much more rational to reduce spending by a billion and a half than to increase taxes by a billion and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49987	Mr. Arsic, you have another minute and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49988	I think that's quite enough for these ten years, I learned to write amendments, so if someone wanted to release it, to keep an 8% rate on computers, all they had to do was write in Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act is deleted and nothing more, gentlemen. Now I hope you finally realize how hard it is to write the amendments, because you didn't even know how to write the simplest. I hope you stop supporting the government that puts us 12, 13, 15, 17, the law to make amendments and prepare for the session, and even the professional services return to us the amendments, when we write down the position instead of St. So they give us back the amendment when we write, in our heads, why didn't we put in gv. I hope you've finally learned it's not easy to be an MP. That's your first assignment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49989	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49990	I don't want to argue and explain any further, if you would carefully read the draft amendments and the addition of the law that is on the agenda, you would understand that the amendment is correct. If we want computers and computer equipment not to be loaded with 18% VAT, but to stay at 8%, the only way to submit an amendment to exclude computers is the way we have submitted, and I don't think it makes any more sense to convince someone who's learned to be an MP, and who isn't, we see and we know, and who is, welcome if he wants to learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49991	You've got 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49992	Here, let me explain the technique of writing the amendments. It means Article 1 of the VAT Act in Article 23 paragraph 2 after the words – fruit, words are added – except for the southern fruit. That's an introductory sentence. Second point 7a and 11, they're deleted. It's erased, it's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49993	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49994	It's true, it's deleted from the basic text of the law. If you want it to remain in the basic text of the law, then this article can only be deleted to point 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49995	You have five more seconds, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49996	I will say the proverb of the people: they are free to whisper it with deafness, and to wink at a dead end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49997	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49998	If you had an argument, you'd be polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u49999	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendment to the Act on ACCIZA, you have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalović, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Janković, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasić and Dragan Stevanović, as well as the Finance Committee. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zoran Kasalovic tabled an amendment with an amendment proposing that a new article be added in front of article 1. Mr. Kasalovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50000	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, the SPS-JS Parliament Club, supported in principle the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia with the following tax and financial laws, primarily because of the framework in which this budget was worked, and of course because of the basic provisions and guidelines of the economic policy of the Government of Serbia for 2011, which are acceptable to our parliamentary club, and as regards the aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respect the fiscal rules that we have set up by amending and supplementing the Law on the budgetary system, therefore, the existing target deficit for 2011 at the level of 4.1% of GDP or 120.5 billion dinars. For us, it is very important to single out for the most socially vulnerable categories, the pure 90 billion dinars, which confirms our desire and the desire for every economic policy to be socially sustainable and on a short and long period of time, and that is the only possible economic policy, any other kind of economic policy management would be some sort of theoretical and inconclusive economic policy. When it came to tax and financial laws, even then in the principle debate, we said that we want and support the root changes in the tax system with the desire to see data that says that in the Republic of Serbia, tax evasion is moving at 30% of GDP, and that in more developed countries, these evasions are somewhere at 15% of GDP. It means that this kind of change of tax laws, first of all, has a purely fiscal objective and collects additional revenue that is missing in the budget due to the abolition of the tax on the use of mobile phones, then certain tax incentives and reliefs. This is essentially not a root tax reform and the one we think would be needed by the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, we believe that there is a need to demonstrate significant material technical support for the work of the Tax Administration, and also to work on amendments to the Law on Income Tax, where there is a gray zone, where there are profits that move in non-taxable frameworks. This would certainly be a way to significantly accelerate the filling of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then we said and now we think that the missing revenues should have been provided through, first of all, excise, because excise duties are the oldest taxes on consumption, excise duties, these are taxes special relating to specific products that are substituted. It is a small tax erosion, and in this sense it does not represent a significant blow to the individual layers of the population, primarily, to their economic potentials. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment which, above all, concerns the determination of excise duties on oil derivatives. We predicted to be members of the 1st. The excise duty law on oil derivatives, excise duty shall be paid in the following amounts: all types of engine petrol in item 2 of this item 45 dinar, Euro BNB 98 and Euro premium BNB 95 – 49, 5 dinars, all types of diesel fuel other than diesel fuel in item 4 of this item 35 dinar, Euro diesel 37 dinars, other oil derivatives derived from the distillation fraction of up to 380 degrees Celsius 53,34 dinars and liquid oil gas for motor vehicles 17.95 dinars. What is being achieved with this amendment? With this amendment, above all, and these expected amounts of excise duty on oil derivatives, an additional 2.3 billion dinars will be provided compared to those projected 73 billion in the 2011 budget. So this way, through excises, we think it is necessary to secure additional revenues and fill out the budget. First of all, the idea was also in this direction that the excise duty on oil derivatives, i.e. oil derivatives, also takes into account the relative prices of products in the environment, the competitiveness of the domestic market and the liberalisation of the import market. The amount of excise duty on oil derivatives in points I mentioned, there are five, so on motor gasoline, Euro BNB 98 and other oil derivatives, as determined in the amount harmonised for the estimated rate of growth of prices to a small or inflation of 10.6%. Also, the latest amendment to the directive in the minimum amount of excise duty that was carried out in 2008, prescribes changes in minimum excise duties on unleaded gasoline and diesel fuel. EU members have an obligation to adapt to this amendment by 1 January 2015. Since this adaptation in which directive should be gradual, we appreciate that this way the excise duties established allow this adjustment to be gradual with much smaller steps and in a drastic way. It is, first of all, one way to make this increase one step towards special compliance with EU rules. Also, what we consider important is a slower increase in excise duties on other diesels, so all kinds of diesel fuel other than diesel fuel from point 4 of this article. We believe that we justify the fact that they are mainly used as a drive for agricultural and other machinery. They have the character of a production guide. It is perfectly justified that the increase of these excise duties is lower than the rest of the excise duty. In view of this more comprehensive solution and the proposal that, following the proposed abolition of certain, above all, VAT additional revenues can be provided in this way, we propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this amendment that we have amended further in the process be adopted, and also, I call on all MPs to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50001	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovic. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Rule 1 with a correction, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Finance Committee tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added after Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50002	Since we've talked a lot about taxes that change these laws, introduce, for the purpose of supplementing the budget, and we've agreed on one thing, that we are under public pressure. We must agree on other things that we must be under public pressure, because the public are citizens of Serbia. We for these citizens need to work here and look for the best solutions all together. That's why we're here, and that's why we're chosen. So that's the basic meaning of parliamentaryism. We have submitted the amendment that we have proposed some figures to change the intended excise numbers, i.e. the intended excise duties, because we do not think that would give us a certain result. This is where it was designed and planned. I'm just interested in one thing. Since the budget is foreseen that the laws amending certain taxes are offered, they will probably also pass and be adopted together with the budget. Hypothetically, what happens if those taxes don't get passed, let's say the laws, if it's not the charge that's scheduled. If this does not bring these results to the budget, is there at all any examinations, or whether or not the funds that will be passed into the budget when these laws are implemented? We have seen, in some laws where VAT is intended to increase, the purchase of some products will fall drastically. Probably the import and everything. So maybe it won't give that necessary result in the budget that was planned, which is projected. It will also call into question a number of implementation items in the budget, so that the government's motivation to offer changes and complement tax solutions is interested in whether it has been preceded and how much it is implementing it. In that sense, we have submitted our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50003	National MPs Milica Vojic – Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50004	When the SRS expert team considered the issue of excise duties, we came to the conclusion that we need to help the government. The government just can't handle it. Why? One of the most sufficient tax forms in all modern countries is VAT as a reminder of tax and excise tax as well. Since the government's proposal was far less than it really should have been, and the budget is empty for 2010 and it will be even more empty for 2011, let's help the government. We have proposed an increase compared to what was proposed by the bill. Why? Because we have taken into account the total rates and total duties based on excise duties in countries in the region, because we are the signatories of the CEFTA agreement. Since we have signed a special agreement with the EU and is binding on us and CEFTA and this agreement with the EU, we have seen on your site that Serbia singles out at all three basiss of 18.6 euros based on the data we could find, Mrs Dragutinovic. Countries in the region stand out 30 to 35 euros. So double the excise rates in our region are less than they are in the region, which is contrary to the provisions of the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement. The EU average is 100, and we have 18.6. The EU average is 100 euros. There are 237 euros in Italy, almost 13-14 times higher. Since you're having trouble filling your budget, that's what we suggested, and you refused to explain that you shouldn't, that there's no need to rush. There's no need, because we're going to cause some problems on the market, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50005	Time. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50006	Just to remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you were not when the provision of the Excise Act was passed, several years ago. That action started when you sold out the tobacco industries and changed the excise laws, so you prescribed how much excise duty there would be every year. That's how you prescribed for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Now you're changing exactly that provision. Of course, you're referring to some directives, you're referring to everything and everything. You know that I trust you, since these amendments to the Finance Committee are all forged, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. But then, about that, others will deal with these things. It's not important for this topic. When you were prescribing that what year was going to be excise on cigarettes, you said -- that's the obligation to an ino partyer that bought our tobacco industry. Just to remind you, there was some money missing for buying the tobacco industry in Nis and, as far as I heard from the two ministers and the Prime Minister at the time, they were very interesting to the police. You know, from DS, they are. We have suggested changing these amounts, of course at more, not to endanger smokers, that we understand each other, but that excises are the most stable income of all these tax revenues, even from VAT etc. We did something beyond our standard procedures to show you how inconsistencies you are, that you're actually falling apart. You're arbitrary. You're under the influence of anyone who has the slightest sneeze, but if it's the person you're supposed to shake on. We just wanted to fight you with the tycoons, fight you with the tycoons. Now you're in front of a dilemma, as in front of two haystacks, do you increase excises, what did they suggest radicals, or keep? And you remember what was in that building...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50007	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djelic, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 5th amendment was properly submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. We have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, so the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50008	Just a moment to speak to the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia. So I can conclude from the discussion in the details of tax laws that I've never felt so alone in the debate. Never less change and never sharper discussion. None of the MPs have said, nor have the opposition MPs, but neither have MPs, as far as small changes are concerned. No one said exactly, I repeat, and I want to say it because of the citizens of Serbia, that the tax burden of citizens does not change, it is the same. So this was an income neutral operation with proposed tax changes. All the things we've been discussing together so much now, very precisely I can show, it's worth about six billion dinars, and all of you here to say that total tax revenues, including social security contributions, are all of what are regular fiscal instruments, a thousand and two hundred billion dinars, are about a year-on-year. Today, you have criticised the harrass, the injustice, the injustices of the 0.5% tax revenue, and this change has been profitablely neutral. All we suggested was, on the one hand, an increase in excise income and an increase in property tax and VAT on a small number of products, and on the other hand the decline in tax on the use and use of goods. All in all, only six billion dinars. What I want to say again is that taxes are an integral part of human history and times have changed, passed, but somehow the debate on taxes and the opinion on taxes hasn't changed. They never were, they weren't, and it's never gonna be a popular topic. That's how this discussion today showed. Nobody likes to pay. Paying taxes and being satisfied is like being in love and reasonable. What I've noticed is that some MPs want to build a law based on individual cases. I repeat, these were changes after which no one would pay one dollar more. I don't think there's anything fairer than paying on the basis of economic power. We can talk and discuss what economic power is, but economic power means that one who earns more and has more property should pay more. Finally, on the most bile discussions concerning property tax, once again, this was an initiative by local self-government. Also, the changes weren't great, but listening to you, I realized that it's not yet time for major tax reforms. In any case, thank you for the discussion and for each of you individually and all of you together, since we will not see each other until the end of this year, and especially for the citizens of Serbia, I want to welcome 2011 with conviction and positive belief that we will really be better off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50009	Thank you, Madam Minister. As I said, in the voting day, we'll make a statement about this law as well. We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Use, State and Wearing Good. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz and Dusan Maric. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50010	Given that we have heard the final word on taxes, just to remind the Minister that we are considering another tax law and I am really now in doubt whether tax laws, property tax and VAT, remain in the procedure or are they withdrawn. If they remain in the process, we no longer know what solutions are, and if they are tax neutral, there is a basic rule in tax theory – that taxpayers are never disturbed by tax regulations that are neutral or have small tax effects. I don't understand how we don't have a proposal for tax law now, or Mr Milosavljevic, who has been announced to amend and supplement the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, will also represent these amendments. I'm really not sure what the Minister is talking about, and we still don't know if he's in the procedure, which amendment and what we're talking about here today, with me adding, if the correct amendment that was defended by Mrs. Comic is, then all the other amendments that regulate the same matter and are not advertised as incorrect are not corrected, then something is wrong with Article 162. The Rules of Procedure on Labour and with unique methodological rules to which we write amendments. It is too late, but we're still being served by concentration and reason, and I'd like someone to explain to me what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50011	The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, it was much more important to work a little more on the scale than on the income side. Unfortunately, we also have this tax code on use, holding and carrying goods. As regards Article 2, it relates to motor vehicles. Our amendment is in line with the Traffic Safety Act and that's what the bill didn't do. We find it unacceptable to tax vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes, that is, the government's proposal, for the simple reason that these vehicles are used most often to perform different activities, used by small businesses, farmers. In this way, since more than 30% of entrepreneurs today are literally in front of bankruptcy, these amendments to their tax obligations will range from 800 to 1,700 euros, all depends on the type of vehicle and the release, we believe that entrepreneurship is unnecessarily burdened and irresponsiblely burdened. Not to mention something special about farmers whose vehicles are mostly used to bring products to city markets. It seems to me that they are not even fully exploited, they are certainly not a luxury and there was no reason to tax that kind of vehicle in this law. So, to conclude, for SNS this amendment is unacceptable, first of all, because it worsens the situation of businessmen and farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50013	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50014	Article 3 refers to taxpayers. With the amendment submitted by the SNS, we expect the state authorities to also be taxpayers, i.e. to equalise themselves with legal and physical persons. We think that the tax burden and those vehicles owned by the state authorities is necessary, that the same treatment is necessary when taxing, and we think that we would have some indirect effects, because to a much greater extent we could, with the help of the tax records, assess how much state authorities and state institutions are boasting about the purchase of the vehicle. Unfortunately, there are very frequent examples. We almost had the example that Mr. Tadic's presidency bought two new audiences, that "Serbiagas" bought 60 new vehicles. If, by accepting this amendment, we could equate ourselves with legal and physical persons, I think that the public and we MPs would have a much better insight into how taxpayers' money is spent and therefore, I believe that the institutions themselves and the directors of these institutions themselves would be much more careful when spending taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50015	The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Sasa Maksimovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50016	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment refers to passenger vehicles, motorcycles, side-seat motorcycles and heavy tricycles. This amendment proposes that the level of the tax be determined on the basis of the actual value of the vehicle to be determined on the basis of the purchase price and age of the vehicle. The current charging system based solely on engine volume, with a minimum correction based on the age of the vehicle, disproportionately burdens poorer categories of citizens. The difference in the price of a new vehicle with the same engine volume can be over 10 times, and the tax is the same for new vehicles and vehicles five years old. The 19-year-old tax on vehicles, according to current law, is as much as 60% of the amount of tax on a new vehicle, although everyone knows that the value of such a vehicle is not even 10% of the value of the new vehicle. This tax system does not comply with the Constitution, which states in Article 91(1) that the obligation to pay taxes is based on the economic power of the obligor. This amendment also suggests that the obligation to pay this tax is not extended to cargo vehicles, for the reasons already mentioned in the amendment to Article 2 of the proposal and that we warn of the serious consequences for entrepreneurs, small businesses and farmers, who are the main users of such vehicles. The introduction of such a tax would be completely contrary to the constant emphasis that small businesses and agriculture are the main holders of the economic development of the Republic that should address the problem of unemployment. It seems to me that such a law makes it clear that the government only cares about providing in the pre-election year at all costs the budget that will ensure that the ruling parties remain in power for another year, regardless of the severe consequences of economy and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50017	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50018	I'm suggesting either I don't understand or he's a injured member of 273. The Rules of Procedure, because I was in the intervention that the minister had come out and had no authorised representative to discuss the tax law, informed by Mrs Comic, if he would allow me, I would convey a part of the conversation that was out of the microphone, that it was merely the insistence and goodwill of the Assembly's leadership, which ensures the presence of the government's representatives. I would read Article 273 which says, "With the draft law or other general act or other material submitted to the National Assembly, the Government shall inform the National Assembly of its representatives and trustees for the meetings of the National Assembly and its committees." It informs us who might represent the government. Does that mean it doesn't mean someone should be there or shouldn't be? I didn't even insist on it, but I was under the impression that the minister went unwarrantedly angry, so I wanted to ask you if we had a representative for the tax law story? What does Article 273 mean as a government obligation to deliver a notice on its representative or trustee?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50019	I don't think it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure, given the government's authority over the minister, it was an obligation, and we have information on that. Whether the minister can during the debate and leave this room and follow the debate, since today we are working on the tenth – the eleventh hour, all of us, of course, but we all go out and take a break. So, the minister was here the whole time. He's not here right now. At the last point tonight, we have another representative of the government, which you've been informed of, and I estimate there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, I ask that in the day of the vote we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50020	I do not insist on the presence of the Minister or the inability to endure more, but you cannot say that there is no obligation and that the obligation comes down to the paper of the notice or that the presence depends on someone's private goodwill or good human relations. You don't have to plead, 126 hands can do anything, but what's this for? I do not insist on the presence of the Minister or the inability to endure any more. But you can't say there's no obligation and that the obligation comes down to paper notice. Or that the presence depends on someone’s goodwill or good human relationship. You don't have to plead, 126 hands can vote anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50022	I agree, but there is a obligation to empower ministers or government representatives. That's what the government did. So there's no strict obligation. I agree with you that it is best that in the most part of the debate the Minister be here. You know what attitudes we've taken as parliament in this regard. But I really don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50023	I want to use the right to reply because it is a misquote of the conversation that the MP conveyed to the public as incorrect and arbitrary. So, on the question of Minister Diana Dragutinovic and the question why she is not present at the Hall right now, I said -- there is no firm obligation under the Rules of Procedure and the present presence of all ministers is a joint effort by the government and the opposition to control the executive authority. If someone wants to translate it into good faith, they can. But I can't say it's a lie without it. The principle of work that the first president of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, established in co-operation with the government, in an effort and in a desire to build a partnership relationship with which the Assembly controls the government, I hope that it will continue, as well as the fact that a representative of the Government who is authorised to represent the Government at the National Assembly session can leave the National Assembly session as well as any other and that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Insisting on that in an incorrect, arbitrary and interpretative way, talks are being transmitted to which, and I was convinced that it was the common desire of the opposition and the ruling majority, regardless of who was present, that the full control function of the Assembly was slowly established, clearly gives me a message that the opposition does not want to be our partner in this. But we will endure. The government will be controlled and ministers will defend the laws, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50024	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50025	I still feel like we don't understand each other. So it's one thing to say that someone's going out right now, but the other thing I've been given is an explanation that the government has no obligation to have those powers present, ministers and creditors, to be there during the debate. It's one thing for them to get out and the other for them not to be there. Secondly, we've waited several times for the session to begin, so that one of the government's representatives would be there. Is it a government obligation and a way of control to come, to disqualify everything we said in a 40-minute exposure, to say that we talked about tax laws that had a neutral effect and then leave? Then, as the opposition's representative, I get a very constructive argument that they didn't have to be there because they don't have a business obligation. I won't answer again. He told each of us what he thought about the government's control role and the obligation of MPs. I thank the presidents for their opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50026	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50027	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we submitted to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods refers to disabled persons with physical impairment over 60%, disabled with damage to the lower extremities of over 50% and persons distracted in development, vehicles related to driver training, taxi transport, public tourist transport, etc., not to read all of this, is long and I don't have enough time. The proposed amendment regulates the issue of tax exemptions on passenger vehicles in a clearer, simpler and more comprehensive manner and simplifies the procedure for the exercise of rights. Item 1. Something lowers the percentage of disability, with the regulation that liberation applies to all persons with disabilities, because we find it unnecessary to specifically cite categories of people with disabilities and make any difference between them. The right on the basis of distractions is not limited to children, since it must be borne in mind that there are also adults who are being distracted and who are being cared for by household members who are not their parents. It is also prescribed that there is sufficient reason to be distracted, for we believe that the right to be recognized is only for multiplely distracted children, or persons at all. It is difficult to understand and accept that this country intends to charge a child who is only single-handedly taxed because the child is not repeatedly disturbed. We're aware that this country has no limits when it's trying to fill the budget, but something like this is really excessive and inhumane, as well as some other provisions of this one at the speed of the concluded law. When it comes to people with disabilities, we suggest that the right can be used by a household member instead of disabled people. This is usually quite a practical solution because it should be borne in mind that registration and extension of importance require the presence of owners and that this is almost always connected to leaving and waiting in ranks, which for many people with disabilities is a major problem or not even an opportunity to do so at all. Article 2 is the simplest and clearest way to regulate the right to release...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50028	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I guess the goal of anyone who deals with taxes, and in the first place the Ministry of Finance, is to create a fair tax system, not to make it so obvious, in the easiest way possible to establish some basics that are not just. That is the problem with all the laws that are passed on to the tax burdens of Serbian citizens. I can say that this law on tax on use, keeping and carrying goods is one imaginary tax, which is nowhere in the world. Only in Serbia, so that I can meet Sunday's government cars in front of the hypermarket, so I can meet them on a Sunday's billing ramp, how women and children transport, so that Bajatovic can buy 30 new "Skoda", and we'll give budget subsidies, and two "Audija". So that's why we pay that kind of tax. Not to talk about where I meet all the state cars, under all the circumstances, in places and in times where they should never be. That's the problem. So we'll make up taxes. It was the first thought of the one, from the mercy of the people "God Derikoza", that Bozidar Djelic invented this law. Now we're constantly changing that law, adapting, reducing funds transferred to local self-government, so to say, we don't have that kind of money to give you, they have to travel on Sundays of women and children, but that's why we're going to increase our property tax so we can finance ourselves from there.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50030	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50031	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, in thief's privatisation, in a wild transition, in the largest peace robbery in the history of Europe, thanks to the closeness with the regimes of Slobodan Milosevic first, then Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica and now Boris Tadic, various Miskovici, Hamovici, Peconi, Lazarevici, Kostići, Mitrovica, Matici, Draculići and similar bullument became millionaires and billionaires. They became owners of everything in Serbia except the air. And the owners of yachts and ships. In Serbia, according to official data, 700,000 people live below the poverty line. People have nothing to eat. Their kids are hungry. 65,000 people live in the soup kitchens. The country looms in misery and thieves who, thanks to government, became millionaires, in 30 million yachts, cruise on the Croatian coast. The government has suggested that those on this fortune, on yachts of 30m euros, pay a tax of 50,000 to 200,000 dinars. So, I repeat, you have read and listened – this and this tycoon drives a 30m-euro yacht, and there compares whether it is more expensive than a Russian tycoon yacht. Under this bill, he will pay 200 thousand dinars on that yacht. I call on Serbian citizens to think again and to compare this data with the pre-election promises of the DS and never again allow DS, Mladjan Dinkic and similar fraud in the various election campaigns ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50032	Thank you. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Igor Becic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50033	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, we have tabled an amendment where Article 20 is made. The proposal changes and reads – Article 17 is deleted. We are witnessing these days that in the Ministry of Finance there are genius ideas on how to fill the budget and further poverty the citizens of Serbia. This amendment proposes that air taxes be abolished and that Article 17 is therefore deleted because these types of taxes do not exist anywhere in Europe, and in particular they should not exist in Serbia, because aircraft owners are already burdened with a number of taxes that do not exist either in Europe or anywhere in the world. These fees were introduced by the Civil Aviation Directorate, the same directorate that we see every day that there's an ever-increasing crisis in corruption. I think that this option, which also runs the directorate, has become used to various situations in Belgrade, where considerable resources are being poured out. Overall observed, the Civil Aviation Directorate, which charges for a number of procedures that he himself introduces, where this state's aviation policy is catastrophic, so the results are also catastrophic. The main actors of such a missed policy are the Ministry of Infrastructure and already mentions the Civil Aviation Directorate, where no aircraft or aviation expert has been present in the management posts for a long time. The issue of individual documents is also charged up to 600,000, and the issue of authorisations for the performance of up to 6.5 million dinars. The authorisation is also charged for up to 100,000 dinars, as well as annual scholarships at individual universities. Is that worth it? In such conditions, only signing a tax like this is a word... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50034	Thank you. The 21 amendments were submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Antiæ has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50035	Here are Articles 21, 22 and 23 of the fact that they refer to aircraft and aircraft, and the fact is that the government thinks it will be able to charge some taxes when it comes to aircraft and aircraft, but it should be made clear that the number of registered aircraft and aircraft falls from year to year and that this is one barren story and an impertinent attempt to do anything when it comes to the revenue side of the budget, when it comes to revenues. In addition, it should be said that a large number of aircraft in Serbia, from Serbia, has moved to other countries, is being registered there because registration prices are incomparably less in those countries, so I think that it is essentially simply wasting time. The costs of registration, as I said, are much higher. You do not have this tax in the civil aviation of other countries and, unfortunately, it seems to me that even this poorly developed civil aviation in us in these legal solutions will be even weaker and simple development of this sector will stop completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50036	Thank you. The 22 amendments were submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia will in the voting day raise taxes on the facilities we live in and will cut tax breaks, as the finance minister said that one who has more needs to pay. I totally agree with that, but let's see how many people that someone has more use for. It's not the same thing when five or six people, faces, use 70 squares, and it's not the same when one citizen uses 50. It's a famous thing, but that's why we've had to cut some taxes because of the increase in those taxes, so we've reduced the tax on yachts, and it's a big tax relief, a big tax finding, so it's shrinking, and now I don't know who's got yachts. Now, if we go according to that principle, then let's also release tax planes because I'm very interested in which minister and which former ministers have been here since October 5th, which means ministers, which one of them is going to have a plane and who's going to be driving it, or flying it over Serbia's sky, that we finally know and that we have a unique register, not that on exotic islands where tax lords are registering their aircrafts so they don't pay our taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50038	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50039	Just a few figures as to how illogical this tax burden is, and that's when in the case of aircraft taxes, there won't be less than 5,000 euros, and let's say that a sports aircraft with some four seats is worth 30,000 euros, roughly those prices. So, a totally unrealistic tax rate that will completely destimulate the amateur air force, the civilian air force. I think it's our job to shut down the sports and amateur air force thanks to these government proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50040	A group of 22 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment reads: "For next year's tax payments, the tax referred to in Article 24 of this Law is harmonised in December, at the rate of salary growth in the previous 12 months, according to data from the republican organisation responsible for statistics affairs." The amendment we have proposed suggests that the amount of tax actually be aligned with the growth of wages, rather than with the rise in prices to a small extent, as prescribed by the applicable law. We believe that compliance with the rise in prices is not acceptable because the price rises reduce the payment opportunities of citizens, and thus the possibility of paying taxes. The harmonisation of tax levels with rising prices directly endangers citizens' existence in conditions where price increases are faster than wages, which is currently the case in the Republic of Serbia. The content of Article 1 shall also be aligned with the previous amendments which have been proposed to establish the level of taxes for vehicles and vessels on the basis of their value and to eliminate the aviation tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50042	The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50043	Article 13 refers to fines, and it is unacceptable for the SNS to impose a fine and when it comes to time-limits when paying fines, when it comes to tax-paying deadlines because we have a very often chance to listen to the Prime Minister blaming the global economic crisis in this country, but when it comes to collecting taxes, when citizens need to pay that tax, then they do not remember the global economic crisis, they are not even aware how difficult Serbian citizens are today, how bad the situation is in the economy, but here, at least a few data. Today, 60,000 companies have blocked accounts. If they don't pay their taxes in time, they'll be punished. You've got over 300,000 citizens receiving minimum wages, which means about 16500. You've got 400,000 citizens who've been picking up their salaries. Twenty percent of private sector employees have a delay in salaries for 90 days and it is obvious that the very bad economic and social situation in Serbia today, but that is what does not interest the government, the government is only interested in how to collect more taxes so that its party administration manages to secure as much income as possible. Thank God, you've increased about 7% by this salary budget and you've completely forgotten about the socially endangered. Let me remind you, you only gave the pensioners 2%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50044	I'm sorry you're investing a lot of energy, and the results are what they are. There's something to change. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Penzijsko and INVALIDSK OSIGURANJU You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the Members of the People's Parliaments: Milisav Petronijević, Dusan Marić, Dobrislav Prelić, Dragan Živić, Milan Škrbić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Dragan Aćimović, Zoran Popović, Milan Niković, Sulejman Spaho, Nemanja Šarović, Goran Mihajlović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Government Milojković, Milovanovic, Slobodan Vuković, Slavan Mijaljević, Miljan Mijavić, Radar Žalić, Žaljavić, Dragar Žradažanović, Dragar Željanović, Dragar Kražinović, Gordan Kražović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Goran Kražić, Zoran Kražić, Zoran Kražić, Božić, Božić, Bož Kražić, Bojan Kraž Kraž Kraž, Bojan Mal, Bojan, Bojan M. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. National MP Gordana Rajkov, written on 23 December 2010, withdrew the amendment to Article 10. National MP Momir Markovic, written on December 23rd, withdrew one of the two amendments he submitted to Article 23. National MP Milisav Petronijevic, in writing on 28 December 2010, withdrew the amendment submitted to Article 1. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Now I don't know who's gonna go first? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50045	I couldn't react any faster to your calling for amendments than to ask for a violation of article 27 and ask if it wasn't an accidental opinion under this law that was taken to the club, and we're sitting here working without a break all day. We didn't get the government's opinion. So we don't know what's going on. How can I work? You're obliged to provide me with a condition, at least tell me to go up to the club, if it's taken up. Or it can be done without an opinion and...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50046	I'll answer you by reading article 155. Rules of Procedure. Before considering the bill at the National Assembly session, competent committees and governments shall consider it if it is not the legislator. The committee responsible and the Government, if it is not the legislator of the law in their report, may propose to the National Assembly to accept or not accept the draft law in principle. If the relevant committee and the Government propose to adopt the draft law in principle, they shall indicate whether the draft law is accepted in general or with the amendments proposed in the form of an amendment. To the National Assembly, the committee and the Government shall provide reports, or opinions by rule, not less than five days before the start of the session of the National Assembly at which the draft law is being considered. If the committee in charge fails to submit a report, i.e. the Government’s opinion on the draft law, the draft law will also be discussed without that report or opinion. In this case, the Government has not delivered an opinion to us and we are considering the bill without that opinion. In connection with Article 1 of the amendment, Mr Milan Dimitrijevic explains. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50047	Thank you, Madam President. There's no government opinion. We don't even have to have it. We're used to these working conditions. It's a good thing, Madam President, that in these late hours after 11 o'clock we're discussing such an important law. We got in at 12 hours of work today. It's a good thing the Minister of Commerce is here. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for being here in these late evening hours, but it seems to me that this law is the subject of this government's trade and that's why it's a good thing there's a minister of trade. I hope we get the VAT into retirement, so we'll probably have valid answers, trade ministers. In Article 1 of this law, you provided for the integration of the Pension Insurance Fund with the targeted sector. It's done in such a way that there was no public debate. There was nothing in public about it. Are there certain problems in the Pension Fund of Military Insurance? Are there military pensioners' lawsuits against that fund? Are there any court disputes? How many military guards are going to enter the civilian sector? What's the state of things? Do we have a constant fill-in from the pension fund budget? How's our economic growth going? Will we be able to make it up to you? There's no answer to that. You've entered the laws as quickly as you can, as you do with all the laws. We're discussing a very important law in the late evening after 12 hours of work, and that's the real picture of those pre-election promises you promised.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50048	The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50049	I hope that it is clear to the citizens of Serbia, however this may be, that instead of answering me that there is no government opinion on this bill, you have answered the most directly and not by reading all the provisions of Article 155 and I believe that this cannot cloud the essence. What's interesting is that in Article 4. The draft law is amended by Article 14 and we add the position to which we wish to specify this provision in the following way – exclusively from Article 1 of this Article to insurance undertakings referred to in Article 11(9) and Article 10) where, according to the contract or otherwise, it is not possible to determine the start, i.e. the termination of the insurance property, i.e. the termination of the property of the insurance undertaking, can be determined by the established insurance procedure by putting the amount paid i.e. the contracted compensation in relation to the minimum, i.e. the highest insurance base valid on the day of payment of the fee. As much as this seems to someone's obstinate explanation, that is, the change of attitude is more clear than the attitude that was defined by the promoter, which is just as defined as possible in order to be as understandable as possible. Just the way you tried to explain that the government is not doing its job on such an important subject on which this government is drawn up. By the time the debate is lifted, what can you do with 126, we will appear on every amendment that we have submitted to this law as much as it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50050	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government is proposing that women go on a future pension with 38 years of training and 58 years of life. We of the SRS suggest that this member be completely deleted and that women retire as they have been until now. As for the shift of the age limit, we believe that on one side of this movement, the current generations of workers are being threatened, who, given the conditions of life and the rate of death, will increasingly exercise this right. On the other hand, the drastic shift of retirement borders with the extension of the working age of citizens is drastically decreasing and such a small space for young people to ever get some normal job in Serbia. If Serbia does not have enough work for citizens who are 60 or 22 years old, if it has to change, then it is better to have people who are 20, 30, 40. In any case, they are certainly more perspective and will give some better work results. We have heard here just before from DS representatives, that DS MPs have submitted amendments and have made an effort to provide support for the amendments for DS MPs. So they made an effort to provide support to themselves. I now urge them to make another effort and accept this amendment to the SRS and in this way, at least a little, folksally, get out in front of hundreds of thousands of women voters who had been deceived before the 2008 election, promising them a better life and, among other things, by promising them that they would not retire from 58 years of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50052	Thank you. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 9(1) be deleted. Namely, what's this about? It says that every three years spent, it is replaced by the words "every five years spent". Article 20 of the existing law, the previous law, clearly states and the SRS believes that the proposed changes relating to the years of life and the job experience for retirement are unacceptable and harmful, but also discriminatory, because Serbian citizens still working are being brought into an unequal position in relation to citizens who have achieved the right to retire. I think this amendment absolutely had your arguments to accept. Only those people who need to retire in some way are discriminated against, but a large number of pensioners are now discriminated against. First of all, I think of more than 200,000 agricultural pensioners for whom absolutely no one wants to improve their status right now. It's not true that there's no way and there's no arguments, there's also how, it just needs to show good will, not just promise. You can't charge pension fund just from budget funds and borrowings, you need to get people back to their jobs. Not that you're hiring to keep your pre-election promises, there's nothing out of it. Take people back to the factories you've ruined, so you can see that they'll be better for the pensioners, and not just declaratively stand up for a better life, but in fact, in part, you show absolutely nothing, but it's interesting that you don't even want to show good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50054	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50055	Member of the 10th Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament refers to disability, and that is to disability for professional soldiers, i.e. professional military service. What the SNS has disrupted in this Article 10th is the fact that not all citizens are equal under the law thanks to this member. You know, military personnel can be incapable of their jobs, so, for a job when it comes to military service, and for other citizens, incompetent people for any job. Therefore, if a military person is unable to carry out a professional military service, this does not mean that he is not capable of performing other tasks, such as capable farmers and entrepreneurs or any other category of citizens in Serbia. Therefore, I think that military personnel, thanks to this member, are placed in a much more favourable position and that this solution is not adequate, especially given the current social situation in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50056	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. In article 10, the word "complete" is deleted. I quote, article 10 reads – in article 21 after the word "capability" is added to the words "or, in the case of a professional military person, there is a complete loss of ability for a professional military service". The SRS believes that the word "completely" in this article is too high because it is a professional soldier or capable of service or not. It can't be both. A loss of full capacity is certainly possible when performing a professional service that is treated like any other job that every Serbian citizen performs in his working life. The adoption of this amendment will create a clear definition of this article and improve the addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50058	The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50059	Of course not, you're the only one who thinks this effort is in vain, and I think it's real. Article 12. Proposal to amend and supplement the law... (President: Please don't take it easy with me.) But I don't know where you get the right to comment on what we're doing as you did a little bit. (President: You are constantly commenting, so sometimes I too have to direct your debates and take care of the atmosphere. I'd like you to give me 29 seconds in the debate. I believe that the efforts of the SNS are not, not in vain, but very useful, and despite the fact that interesting content is currently being released on RTS 1, I believe that the citizens are interested in the provisions of this law that the ruling coalition has proposed to die an insurance company if it has acquired conditions like everyone else in case it has completed a marriage in which in two years it has not acquired a child, or it has lasted less than two years, its spouse does not have the right to retire. That's what you gentlemen have proposed to this law. I understand that there's a fear of abuse of such fictitious marriages, but what about those people who are really out of luck that God gives them a child, or God doesn't extend human life to them for two years, how many laws do you propose here? That is why this provision of Article 12 is required to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50060	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50061	An amendment that I have submitted to Article 12 on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which refers to Article 28a, is part of the general objection that we have, because we believe that the proposed law will only make the position of the pension population more difficult. In short, we believe that a spouse can acquire the right to a family pension on condition that they have a child in common or that the marriage lasted for at least a year, not as it stands in the law for two years. Respected to the public, the SRS sees the essential reform of the pension disability system as it is obvious that the current situation has become intolerable for the largest number of pensioners. The government, for the time being, in terms of manipulation of one-time assistance, is engaged in buying social peace, but it all ends. You're increasing your retirement restrictions, and at the same time you have no solution to hire young people. When will these young people retire, when the vast majority of the first jobs are about 35 years of their lives, and in their education are invested big money and countries and their parents? They realized there was no job for them, nor will there be pensions, so they leave Serbia with their belly after bread. That's why our college-educated people are doctors, engineers, economists somewhere in the world great waiters, physical workers, street washers, sellers. This government doesn't care at all, as you don't care that every year a city of 35,000 people dies, as you don't care that our villages remain desolate, but that's why you're only interested in money. Where is the money there is you, unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, all young and old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50062	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50063	I have submitted an amendment to the proposed law amending and supplementing the PIO Act and to Article 13(1) to delete it. That attitude defines a widow to be entitled to a family pension if she turned 53 to the death of her spouse, and so far she was 50. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is inhumane and needs to leave it as it has been. It is evident that the pension fund has been spent, and the IMF defines our laws, and this law could not enter into a debate in the procedure until it has been verified from the West. According to the SRS, a full analysis of the financial problems in the pension fund needs to be carried out. It is necessary to adopt a strategy to strengthen the pension fund in financial terms. The state must provide quality sources of funding for the pension fund and from other sources, not just from existing ones, because the existing rate of 50% of the budget is unsustainable and is developingly harmful for generations to come. In practice, it is contrary to the established trend for young people to become employed and thus start to pay contributions to pension insurance and to provide themselves with a future pension, as well as the pension of their parents. Today, young people are out of work, not working, but that's why they spend money, not their own, but their parents' pensions. Therefore, without economic development, without the creation of new jobs there is no quality pension solution, i.e. quality pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50064	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Mrs. Djeric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the same member of the law, Article 13 relating to Article 29 of the basic law. We treated this problem, or we felt that this was one of the most sensitive members of this bill's proposal, and it solves a very delicate problem because it is a traumatic situation, a traumatic experience, especially when we look at this part of the parents, the women who have achieved pensions on the basis of parental ageing, and we know that in order, Madam President will recognise it well, means that in the order of traumatic experiences or at all trauma is the loss of a family, it is certainly the greatest trauma one can experience, and then the achievement of these rights that come after that and which are in the jurisdiction of the state to help in such a state, certainly should not make it difficult to move this life line, but rather to be the same, at least to remain the same, because the few people who exercise these rights, therefore, do not compromise the budget for pensions. We are therefore of the view that this amendment may need to be accepted a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50066	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojovic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50067	Thank you, Madam President. The amendments and additions of this article are practically changed by Article 29, which speaks about when a widower gets the right to a family pension. The point is that this shift increases by three years the age limit for gaining the right to a family pension. So in the current law, it was still an age limit of 50 years. The ministry's gentlemen suggested that the border be increased by three years. We changed it back to keep it as it is now settled in the law. I'm going to highlight all those changes that practically affect women because the biggest victims of these changes and the addition of this law are women. So, you're here raising your guarantee to 53 years, even though you know the state of the labour market. If someone couldn't get a job by the age of 50, but it was a supported person, you really don't expect him to be able to get a job from 50 to 53. What's even worse is that we didn't get answers to our amendments. We can't hear the other side or at least read and say how much this change brings savings to the budget and the PIO fund, so now we're talking blindly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50068	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50069	Gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. Article 13 of this Law reads: Paragraphs 2 and 3 change and reads: "A widow who did not make 53 years of life for her mate's death, but who turned 45 years of life, gets the right to a family pension when she turns 53 years old". I have submitted an amendment to delete the position in Article 13. The SRS considers that the existing solution is far more just and logical than the solution proposed by this amendment. This proposed solution has no social basis. The death of a mate is a natural phenomenon and no one can influence it. It is therefore illogical for a widow to await the right to a family pension from 45 to 53 years of age. The deadline is long and the damage is from a social and social aspect. In this case, the widow will find herself in difficult conditions to survive, and we know well that 60% of pensioners support their family. It is unreasonable from the point of view of the SRS to wait eight years for the exercise of the right to a family pension and we suggest that this attitude be deleted and that a realistic analysis of the pension system be made which will provide adequate solutions for the entire PIO system. This bill does not offer quality solutions, and not all points of the agreement between the Prime Minister and the recognizable trade unions have been respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50070	Thank you. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50071	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the current law, the man whose wife dies is retired at 55 years of age. The government has proposed to move that deadline to 58 years, and we suggest that it be reduced to 53 years of life. We're going in the opposite direction from the direction the government is going because the government is going the wrong way, the wrong way, and that's how you see it the next way. I quote - this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and is applicable from 1 January 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, today is December 28th. The first of January is on the first Saturday, in three days. This law will be passed tomorrow. If it is announced tomorrow, which is optimal, in the Official Messenger, it will enter into force on January 7th, and you will apply it from January 1st. I ask – how is it possible to apply a law that has not entered into force, which does not exist? It's the opposite of both the law and the Constitution, which is not your problem, but the problem is that it's contrary to common sense. It's like we're here now discussing some bill that the government hasn't delivered to us. We're discussing a bill that doesn't exist. I'm asking you to solve this mess. So it's impossible under this bill. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger. This cannot be done before Christmas, and will apply from 1 January 2011. I draw attention to Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, Mr. Milosavljevic, the government's authorised representative, Prime Minister, representatives of the ruling coalition to find a solution. In order for that solution to be found, I think you need to declare a break, conduct consultations, and find some legal way out of this mess.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50072	Thank you. The voting day will find a solution. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Mrs. Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50073	I'll be very brief. This is an amendment relating to Article 30, and what we are proposing, is that in fact, there is no change in the state that exists in the law because it is much more difficult, much more traumatic for the users of the family pension. In this case, it applies to men. I'll tell you again, fortunately, there are not so many people who use this right to threaten. Our society, socially and economically, has not yet matured to apply such a law, because we know that we are under the pressure of the EU and at all some other institutions that require us to coordinate, of course, institutions that advocate or implement liberal capitalism, to implement these laws. We know that in liberal capitalism, it's actually the goal of a man working as long as possible and he's using his pension as quickly as possible, possibly not using it at all. We haven't matured mentally yet for one such attitude. Serbia is not yet ready to write off its people who have entered the sunny autumn of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50074	Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50075	Thank you. So I'm being asked why you've increased this age limit to 58 years. Thinking about it, I came to the conclusion because you're not interested in social categories at all. Because you don't have money in your budget. Because the firing columns are getting bigger. Because the lines of the hungry are getting longer, because you're incompetent, irresponsible, so you change this, it's in your interest to be as few pensioners as possible. You can't respond to basic demands. Arrest money on other things. For what social benefits are, you don't have any money for it. Socially responsible government. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50076	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50077	I apologize to all the employees of the Assembly, the cleaning lady, all those who are tickling and waiting for the work to be completed tonight convinced that they will receive overtime and are convinced that they understand that we as an opposition do not determine a plan of work in the Assembly. If they get or don't get their overtime, they can either thank or be angry at those who determine both the way and the pace of work. But what I want to say to the citizens of Serbia is this. This law will apply to all of us, to our relatives, to mothers who are fortunate to live or to those who should live on these under jurisdiction. I'm 50 myself. At age 21, I started working as a graduate economist. I'll never have a pension problem, because I have enough energy to show you today that I'm working. But what will that member of this society who is defined by Article 15 where he says – a marriage mate of a professional military person according to the regulations in the Serbian Army who died during the fact, the right to a family pension is achieved regardless of the prescribed years of life and now the devil behind the score – provided that he has not remarried, that is, if he has children that have completed schooling. I ask that this supplement be deleted to Article 30, 30a, because this is a discriminatory provision for those who have already suffered a loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50078	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50079	With this amendment, we practically suggest that you delete the new member you're putting into this article and that's Article 30, 30a, and yet it has to do with the idea that the pension fund of military insurance companies should be combined with the pension fund at all. So, if there was a minister here who was responsible for this, which is Minister Ljajic, or if by any chance we had a response to this amendment, then we might have heard from him that a quality study was made, which shows that this move that you are proposing is very good, that in this way all pensioners will be satisfied. However, knowing that by a month ago more than 30,000 lawsuits were filed on PIO military security, this looks like you simply want to ramble up the whole story. You didn't convince us this was good. Perhaps Mr. Milosavlovic would have some quality study to show why it's good. Among other things, as far as this law is concerned, he was not on the socio-economic council that exists with the government, so some unions could hear doubts that it was not done, because there was no majority in the Council. So there's no responsible minister, the minister who suggested this to us. He's in some kind of interview, he's obviously washing his hands off this whole story, so he says, like a pre-election campaign has started, he's going to punish all of us who haven't worked well. So where is he? He's responsible for this. There's not even a Mr. Omerovic who's the chairman of our board that's been through this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50080	Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50081	This is also one member of the law relating to a special sensitive category of citizens, which is disabled persons. In Article 19, which is added to Article 41, that is to say, Article 41a, we felt that, in a qualification that determines the need for assistance and care, this position should be recast differently. Of course we support, every kind of assistance and fund-raising in the budget and that's something about waiting we all agreed on. It is sad that there is a big problem with this, to achieve it, long waits for the achievement, unfortunately of such subsistence, the proposed qualification is – the need for help and care of the other person exists in the person of the 1st position of this member who is immobilised or who, because of his weight and nature and permanent illness and condition, is not able to move on his own and there is one part of the sentence that reads there – not in the frame of the apartment using the appropriate aids, nor only to feed, strip, dress, maintain personal hygiene, in the blind person who has lost the reflection of light with a precise projection and persons who achieve vision with a projection of up to 0.05%. We asked that part be left out of this qualification – neither within the frame of the apartment with the use of appropriate aids. So everything that stands in the proposal, we accept, but we think that those qualifications of a disabled person are difficult enough, that they shouldn't limit, so only if they can't move in the apartment, then they realize this right. So the difficulty of moving out of the apartment and the difficulty of moving, the difficulty, the movement of a person who can't strip and dress, is a condition enough for someone to achieve the need for the help and care of another person, and I think the commissions can determine that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50082	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50083	Unlike the previous speaker, I would like to supplement this proposed member of the law that treats the meteorological aid and the right to make cash compensation for the assistance and care of other persons. In Article 19, paragraph 2, following the words – basic personal hygiene, words are added – in a person who is unable to take care of himself because of permanent mental and mental illness. The promoter here, in addition to predicting who can achieve such assistance, so he lists them, did not take into account the category, and I can conclude, and the chairman will agree that in this country and in these circumstances the transition and collapse of all segments of society from agriculture, working organizations, youth, this mental pain is increasing in a large number of populations. In such circumstances, help is needed. Such people can also dress and wash, but it takes 24-hour help to work in the way it's needed. The SRS considers that the formulation proposed by the amendment sets out the conditions for the exercise of the right to cash compensation for the assistance and care of other persons. There are many who need it, under this authority, under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50084	The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Antichu, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50085	Article 20, which is problematic for us, refers to the benefits of a work internship, i.e. an internship that counts with an increased duration, and we believe that what is given in this article is too broadly set, that and how discriminatory it is when it comes to some institutions. But because of citizens, if anyone listens at all, as far as we're concerned, police officers and those who are uniform are not problematic, but police officers working on special jobs -- that's a very general definition. Then, employees at the foreign ministry – it is also problematic to whom all this applies. Next – members of the BIA. I don't know why they have such difficult working conditions. Then - military intelligence agencies, tax police, etc. Something I didn't recognize they had very difficult working conditions. As for the Department of Criminal Penalty, we could agree with the Proposer, certainly, as well as the professional military faces. But there are others - other police officers. I guess that's where you're thinking about the communal police that's being founded all over the cities and that charge parking tickets or I don't know what you mean? In any case, the entire member of this law is very undefined. There's a lot of leaks here. It had to be significantly clearer because as it was set up he simply did not put all citizens in the same plane, and all citizens do not have the same legal and constitutional rights. Therefore, this member is as he is, unacceptable to the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50086	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50087	This is a member of gold worth it. If anything in this law represents a jewel, then it is this member who gives certain rights set out in article 42, so I will read the provisions for the public. Paragraph 1 states: "Occupied employees working on jobs where insurance is accounted for with increased duration and who can, under special conditions, exercise the right to pension are: police officers, employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who work on jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with increased duration. "From the point of view of the SRS which has carefully examined the provisions of this bill, it is extremely unacceptable for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be in the category that deserves it – gold. There's no gold. No contributions, no complexity, no responsibilities, no all that is necessary for the benefits of a work experience. Maybe it was during a period of communism because they were exposed to various tortures in diplomatic representations in countries we weren't in good relations with. Now it's gone. You yourself boast that the world has opened up to Serbia and other things. Those diplomats have all the benefits. You have the biggest problem of how to prevent your party associates from leaving. Everyone wants to go to diplomats, consular offices. Why? Because it's a privilege, because it's a high reception and it's going into the world. On the other hand, you have one bonus – a retirement internship with an increased duration, with all the other privileges that go with all this. From the point of view of the SRS it is unacceptable, such as unacceptable and provisions relating to BIA, MUP, etc. It's too wide and extremely unacceptable. I'm going to ask the president to allow me just one financial indicator to bring it out here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50088	Time. I won't allow it. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50089	I couldn't stand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50090	You didn't take it? That's what it says here. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50091	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment to Article 20 of the Law that will apply before it enters into force, which will legally be brought to life before it is legally born, we propose to delete paragraph 5 which provides that employees in the IRS have an unfettered job experience. The SRS believes that there is no socially justified reason for investigators in the IRS to have the right to work with increased duration. I ask the government's representative to explain to the citizens of Serbia what makes the job of the tax inspector more useful and more difficult than, say, the job of a midwife who delivers ten children a day, or the job of a surgeon who operates in the working age of up to 10,000 or 15,000 patients, or the work of a crane handler who spends eight hours a day at an altitude of 50 or 100 meters, or the work of workers in the chemical industry who work daily with life-threatening materials, or the work of construction workers working on those vibrating machines, drilling concretes? Among them is a joke. They say to themselves that when they die, their feet and arms shake five days later. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this ravine you want to solve in the voting day over this law-based thing cannot be solved as you wish, in the day to vote. To settle in voting day, the government of the Republic of Serbia must submit an amendment proposing a change of Article 84 by the end of this debate. If you do not respect the facts, if you do not respect us MPs, I ask you to take care of hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens watching this transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50092	It's already been done by the board and you know the board can do it. You got a piece of paper based on who knows. All you have to do is read. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50093	As my colleagues said before me, this member speaks of who can have everything so-called. Well, there are about seven points that are very wide. At least they're so defined in this law that you practically don't see who these people are and what jobs they're working on, and they have the right to an unfettered job. We've suggested erasing the dot. Five, six and seven. For example, point 5 reads: "The authorised officials of the tax police in terms of the tax administration rules". I really don't understand why a cop who's so named and works in the IRS would enjoy the right to an underprivileged job internship? Or, you say, "Other police officers who work at jobs or jobs." So it's not cops, it's some police officers. Why would an employee who works on the issue of IDs, passports, vehicle registration have an unfettered job experience? Or, if I'm wrong, you can't see it from this law. If you think these officers should have, you should write it differently, but you can't see it from this point. That's why we suggested erasing. Besides, by what happens to us teachers and teachers every day, it might also be thought that a man who spends his entire working life in high school, that these people might deserve an unfettered job experience, because they're really dealing with a lot of problems, and we see that they're starting to beat up on us professors.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50094	The 21 amendments were submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50095	Convinced that the efforts we make to present to the citizens this law is not in vain, I am about to present something that can be considered heresy at this time. We are opposed to such wide exceptions. Article 21 and Article 23, whose erasure we're looking for, we're just considering that they need to erase that wide circle of exceptions. If we prescribe special conditions for the right to retire for the work of people in individual employers or individual professions, which differ from the conditions under which other employees retire, I ask all of us here together whether we are in fact violating the principle of equality of all citizens before the Constitution and before the law? We simply believe that all employees, regardless of where employers work and what they do business, must have equal rights and get pensions on equal terms, because pensions are funded from the same means. For that kind of equality, we really fight consistently. I believe that the request received from the IMF, which points to the unsustainability of funding such a pension fund, with generous exceptions, should be resolved in a different way. That we have as many employees as possible who, by paying their contributions to the Pension Fund, will create a larger base for paying out pensions that will be more decent, but cannot depend and be burdened with various exceptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50096	Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50097	What we can conclude today, pensions haven't been lifted yet, but they're on their way to end. Forty-eight percent of all pensions are financed from the Republika Srpska budget. After these changes, be assured, next year it will be 60% and it will be an unsustainable system. But let me go back to this amendment. You're here to increase the conditions for retirement of an employee who stops working with the police, the guards, and so on. You're raising years of life from 53 to 55, total insurance from 20 to 25, and effective internship from 10 to 15. In practice, there will be terrible problems over this change. But keep in mind, all those in Article 42(1) to (6) are those who guard the regime. Hope, they're guarding the regime, and that's why they've got a certified internship. Their dissatisfaction will be... (President: Do not speak to MPs. ) I am not talking to MPs, but to the president of the ZES parliamentary group, because ZES in translation means, you know. So the problem, as they said today in the debate – has increased lifespan. Well, I guess that's civilization fluid. So we don't pay our pensions long, then let's increase the rigorous conditions to make pensions as little as possible. Remember, it will be a disaster in Serbia. Next year you'll end up with 60% of the commitments paid out of the budget, and then you'll be hit by commissions and Phil and Ren... Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50098	Thank you. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Here you go, Mr. Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is a logical and essential continuation of the previous amendments. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed that these amendments reduce the number of persons who perform a working internship with increased duration. These amendments are related, have the same goal, the same purpose, which is to prevent this proposal from increasing the number of persons who have so-called pension and disability insurance laws through the amendments and additions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Beneficiary work experience. We believe that the existence of an even greater number of persons with this type of internship will only worsen the situation and only further deepen the problem when it comes to height and pension payments and make this problem even bigger and more pronounced. In Serbia, there is a major problem, above all, the daily layoff of workers, which is why less and less money is being poured into the PIO Fund every day. There are fewer jobs, and more and more often companies, i.e. owners and directors, do not pay contributions to their employees. This problem in Serbia is becoming more and more pronounced, and despite unemployment, which is growing, it has a significant impact on exactly the gap in the pension fund. The worst part is that the state is not doing anything, that the government is not responding to something like this change. It is the government that has to launch instruments to provide enough funds in the Fund. It's the government that has to run companies, factories, to run all branches of industry, both food and textile, wood, tobacco, construction and chemical. It is the government that must start production, stimulate and start the development of agriculture, as well as livestock, forestry, mining, tourism, craftsmanship. Because this is the only way to fill out the PIO Fund and thus enable regular pension payments that would be significantly higher and would allow carefree lives for all pensioners. No production starts, no agricultural development...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50100	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50101	Thank you, Madam President. So we predict that in point 1) and (2), paragraphs 4 are deleted, not because we think that officers and officers should have no pension, but rather the opposite. The reason for erasing is because it is a completely unresolved problem, because you are entering the integration of civil and military pension insurance. Just to let you know, Madam President, as well as the representatives of the PIO Fund, that this has been tried in some Western European countries. Five countries gave up because they saw it was a problem solved. Only two countries apply such a model. One more thing. Do you know that several hundred military pensioners filed a lawsuit against the court in Strasbourg? Will you accept, when they get that dispute, to pay off those debts on the basis of a lawsuit? Hardly. There's something else I need to tell you. So, when I read the explanation for the adoption of this law, it is said this way – solving the problem of extra labour through retirement. How do you solve the problem of extra labour when you increase the limit? How do you solve the problem of extra labour? On the contrary. You don't even know what you're writing in an explanation, but you're asking the National Assembly to adopt this law. Come on, people, take your mind off it. Look at what you're writing, what explanations you're giving. You expect us to be favored by this kind of law. This is a monster of the law and you should be ashamed of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50102	The 23 amendments were submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50103	Article 23 also speaks of those exceptions that we openly advocate. I say, all must before the Constitution and the law have equal rights, in the same procedure to obtain those pension rights, because they are financed from the same means. However, if the reform of the expenditure which, because we are beneficiaries of the IMF credit, we are working under some working slogan to do more with less, and if the objectives of pensions are to reduce pension spending from the current 13% to about 10% of GDP, it is from IMF material, and on the medium term by 2015/2016, and if we get that goal, no one has told us what measures we need to achieve that goal. It's our creativity, or lack of your creativity. It's not the only creativity that we talk about this law at midnight, that citizens don't hear about it, how much more restrictive these rights are. They recommended that we link age boundaries and years of contributions, less generous exceptions and indexation. I'd like to stay on this -- connecting the age limit and the year of contributions. If people were working, they'd pay their contributions. If, above all, the objective in this country was the budgetary objective through the Budgetary System Act, that the purpose of monetary policy was not only price stability but, above all, employment through sustainable development, that 10 years ago at least for a change we understood the importance of employment, we would not have a problem with these contributions. That, in addition, we realized the importance of misusing the system...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50104	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50105	I'm going to say just a few financial indicators, and I think they're also very important from the public perspective, to let the public know the problems that the PIO Fund has. In 2006, 97 billion were allocated out of the budget to help the PIO Fund, 2007 138 billion, 2008 200 billion, 2009 213 billion, 2010 222 billion after the rebalance and 2011 230. What counterpart Krasic said, I think he's right, these funds are the most secure funds of the fund, because the contributions paid by workers are growing from year to year so that these funds allocated from budget to this fund will be between 55 and 60, perhaps even worse. Let me get back to the amendment. The amendment concerns the minimum amount of pension belonging to the insurance company and it is important to mention an agreement signed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia with representative trade unions, a total of six trade unions, the agreement since 5 November 2010. There are several points, but one of the points speaks of the true character and behavior of the Prime Minister. This Agreement, under point 2), lays down the minimum amount of pension. Representative unions asked for 25% of the profits. But, behold, the Prime Minister comes out with data – there is no 25% but 27% and they have made an agreement and point 2) have defined that provision of the minimum amount of pension as follows: an agreement has been reached that the Law on PIO foresees that the relationship between minimum pensions and average earnings cannot be...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50106	Thank you. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Antichu, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50107	It is interesting that this member of the law is because, as my colleague Buha said, it shows how immoral and dishonest the government has played unions in these negotiations, at a time when it was afraid of some social unrest and petitions that the trade unions prepared, but the SNS amendment refers to farmers. It seems to me that in this article and farmers are discriminated against, and that, first of all, those farmers who acquired this right of internship after the adoption of the Law on PIO, means after 1 April 2003. I would like to remind myself that in 2004, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance was adopted and those laws set the lowest basis and the rate of contribution was equal for all, so the lowest base was 35% and the lowest rate of contribution was 22%. Therefore, there is no reason why there is a difference between the insurance companies of farmers who acquired this right after the adoption of this law, because their amounts were exactly the same with those insurance companies who are employed or are self-employed. With the amendment of this article, we tried to put farmers in the same position as the rest of the pensioners, and we had in mind that farmers today are very threatened, that our village is and how old, that these pensions are minimal. It is unfortunate that the government had no more understanding of these SNS proposals, given the situation in agriculture today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50108	The 28th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Banovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50109	This amendment is practically made up of two amendments, which is that in paragraph 3, the amount you propose here, which is 9,000 dinars, which is the minimum amount of age, or disability pensions for farmers' insurance companies, and you suggest that it be determined at 9,000 dinars on 1 January 2011. We suggest that this amount of 9,000 dinars be replaced by 10,500 dinars. God does not know how much of our increase, however, it would at least be one third of the average personal income. The second intervention on your proposal is that the 27%, as much as you prescribe, can be the lowest pension, we suggest that it be 30%. What's interesting is that in this bill, a percentage of what the lowest pension can be. But there's nowhere to talk about, there's no mention of the 70% of the average personal income with which PUPS entered this government. I remind you of the promise, when this government was formed, somewhere in May 2008, that it was out of line, that Mr. Krkobic said he wanted to be in a government that was socially responsible and that, with his involvement and commitment, this socially responsible pension government would be 70%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50110	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50111	We are still under discussion on a law that will apply from 1 January and enter into force at the earliest of 7 January. I have submitted an amendment proposing to delete Article 29, which regulates pension rights for persons who have acquired pension rights, and part of the job has been carried out abroad. If the amendment is not accepted, the persons who have obtained the right and the foreign part of the pension will not get a real pension for that part of the working time they spent working in Serbia. This solution is directed against dozens, and perhaps hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who have worked, who are working or will work abroad. Instead of any further comment, I'm just going to remind myself that this country's largest foreign exchange inflow is coming true from a gaster and that the rights that these people have in the area of pension and disability insurance should not be diminished. Mrs. Djukic, you say the amendment that changes the article 84 has been submitted to us and that I know it. I have here a government report, the last member to be mentioned is article 82, no article 84. Here are all the papers we got today, no amendments. If that paper exists, please help us, open our eyes, we may have visual problems. So, I insist on showing the paper to the citizens of Serbia or acting in accordance with the law. I have a suggestion. I'm offering you help. I suggest you take a look, perhaps that amendment to the law that will apply before it comes into force is in that opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you yourself said does not exist. 68/1GI/CG22,15-22,25
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50112	I'm sorry, Mr. MP, that you didn't read the amendment that was filed on December 27th, 2010 at 12.55 p.m. President Meso Omerovic, the president of the Committee, is on his signature. I'll send you that amendment now. I think you read it, but you probably didn't concentrate enough. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50113	We, with this amendment to Article 33, have amended the basic text of the law in Article 80, or the provisions of that article, where we have in our own way specified the way in which we align pensions and I want to explain our position. If the insurance earning is the only parameter in the rate of contribution to determining and the extent of the obligations, as well as the extent of the rights of the beneficiary, we simply consider it logical that this insurance or average profit is the only retirement adjustment parameter, except for some exceptional circumstances, such as some negative economic, political circumstances, where it is possible to limit the extent of pension harmonisation, but only while such exceptional circumstances persist. We have precisely written this, and I particularly point out that under the conditions of an important disorder of this addiction relationship, which is largely dependent on the sustainability of a pension disability system that is financed in fact by current funding is based. Otherwise, the use of any other parameters to coordinate pensions, such as living costs, consumer prices, GDP growth, would all inevitably lead to the real depravation of what is called the principle of non-violence of rights or the depravity of the true value of pensions itself. We feel it is necessary to make this exception for exceptional circumstances, but to take profit, i.e. average earnings as the basic parameters for cooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50114	Thank you. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50115	Thank you. We predicted that this article of the 33rd Law would change and it would say: "As of 1 April of the current year, pensions have been coordinated twice a year with the growth of earnings in the previous six-month period and the cost of living in the same six-month period, and 50% with the growth of earnings and 50% with the cost of living. The coordination takes place every 1 April and 1 October of the current year." So, what does the unsettling majority say about this proposal? That's fairer. Is it more responsible? We wrote this because of this, taking into account statements by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister that GDP is growing, that we have come out of the crisis, that honey and milk flow. That's why we wrote and made this proposal. Will you vote for this amendment? Here's social responsibility, not what you've proposed to amend the law. Muk, quiet. You don't like this amendment. This amendment is socially irresponsible? Socially responsible is what you suggest? It's hard on us with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50116	The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are former laws as gaining properties... , after exercising their pension rights they had to suspend the right to use pensions. The Constitutional Court, in its decision, annulled this institute and in the new law, we do not have this institute in fact, so, as far as this member proposed by the Serbian Government, which primarily refers to the termination of insurance, he is, in our opinion, a kind of bureaucratic obstacle that is unnecessary and in the amendment that has been tabled by the SNS, we have proposed to delete that member. We believe that it is in accordance with the Law on PIO and in agreement with this constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50118	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50119	Article 43, which speaks of the current article 108, states, among other things, that a pensioner and a cash compensation may authorise another person to receive a pension or a cash compensation on his behalf and then that this authorisation shall last for a maximum period of 12 months. What made us angry and perplexed is this third attitude that you add, where it is said that the user of pensions and fines is obliged to deliver trust in life at the request of the fund. I don't know if I've read anything so discriminatory recently. Here you're saying that a pensioner at the request of a trust fund needs to provide assurance that he's alive or confident about life. It's not that in this country, they don't do their jobs to other institutions, but we're going to ask people to give us confidence that they're alive? I really think there's a minister here who should be and who can accept the amendments. Mr. Milosavljevic, I call upon your conscience, that you truly respect this argument, that you cannot ask a person, even if she was 70-80, to deliver the belief that she was alive. There is one people's saying, "God, we're all getting old."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50120	The 61st Amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50121	I really find Article 61 very important. We've been looking for his erasure, and I don't understand how someone could have been attacked by the idea of putting such a provision into law. In fact, Article 61 of the proposal provides that the Fund's solution can determine the amount of pensions paid, i.e. the way in which the refund of that overpaid amount is made. As it is a compensation for damage done to the fund, illegal or irregular treatment, it is simply not clear how it is possible for someone to try to resolve what is involved in civil legal relations, rather than administrative matters, in administrative proceedings. You don't need to be a lawyer at all to know that this is impossible. So, in the administrative procedure, it's not about civil law, it's about administrative matters. It also provides for the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is referred to in Article 84(2) of this Act itself. Therefore, it has been established that PIO rights are implemented in the procedure provided for by the law governing the general administrative procedure and that public authorities and other organisations act under that law, but only when they resolve rights, obligations and the interests of parties and that derogations from this procedure must be prescribed. I'm telling you, you can't prescribe this law that the fund is solving civil law or criminal justice matters. How can you do that? Is it because of the speed that this oversight was made? Please do not make such provisions that are in no way in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50122	Thank you. The 68th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50123	We believe that the position of Article 68(1) and (2) is completely unnecessary, because the amendments and additions of Articles 10 and 14 are not foreseen, which stipulate that farmers are necessarily insured persons, i.e. that the property of the farmer's insurance company is achieved on the day of the start and ceases on the day of the termination of the agricultural activity. The fact that the law changes has no effect whatsoever on the continuity of insurance. So, Article 68, point 2. The proposal is completely without question because there is virtually no farmer who has not acquired the property of the insurance company under Article 1 of the Law. And you had to see it. If the proposer was referring to insurance undertakings whose property was not determined on the basis of an insurance application, then the proposed provision would be contrary to Article 10 of the Law which provides for the obligation to provide for the insurance of farmers. Here you go. See what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50124	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 69th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 74th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic and MP Aleksandar Martinović. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50125	The amendments to this article are another illustration that the greatest victims and this law as well as the biggest victims of the transition of women. Well, here you're saying that with the exception of a member of the 25th of this law, an insurance company is increasing its retirement insurance rate as well as a retirement and retirement internship to determine the height of a disability pension, etc. Well, it starts in 2011, it ends in 2020. We have suggested that this proposal be deleted. It seems that when it comes to gender equality in this country, regardless of our mouths are full of equality and struggles for women's equality, which is about a year ago, we passed a law on gender equality that no one applies anywhere, or even in state institutions, I have not heard that it is some serious and that a state body at all, but not to say the company has submitted its plan to fight for women's equality in its institution. It seems that it's just equality when it comes to working as if we don't have any sense of how much women are in society or in many other societies that are harder. Whether she wants to or not, whether she does it or not, she's both mother and housekeeper and she wants to do the job and build a career. That's why this law is directed against women and the biggest victims of these changes are women. I guess it's because there's no woman at the PUPS Parliament Club, and otherwise, I'd expect that colleague to come forward and fight for the rights of pensioners in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50126	The 75th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the already mentioned benefits of a working internship that most opposition MPs disagree with has been treated in this Article 75, and this institute has been brought to absurdity because it is not known who will prescribe what the benefits are, what is the degree of increasing the internship, or is left to the institutions that have the right to do so. Instead of a government authority or itself, the government determines who and how much benefits work experience can have, this can be easily left unarranged. It is said to be brought no later than 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law. We find this unacceptable. And this is how we have a big problem, as we were saying, with the funds at the PIO. There are many stories that there is no money for pensioners, that we have to save, and on the other hand we leave to individual ministries and different institutions the possibility that they will voluntarily decide as they respond to them on who will have a well-favoured job experience and what the degree of increase will be when they determine the height of their benefits. For SNS this irresponsibleness, such indetermination in this law is simply unacceptable and we invite you to accept this institute and this SNS amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50128	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 77th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50129	Article 77(2) is deleted. That's the text of this amendment. It is necessary to comply with the proposed amendment in Article 33 where we took the earnings as a basis for harmonisation and since I explained this method of coordination I will use the following two minutes – if 1.3 billion were out of budgetary control in the last year, outside of government control, if, in the recognition of the finance minister in those special bodies of the Civil Aviation Directorate and many bodies that are public authorities using to allegedly provide some kind of service, giving some consent, permits, etc., entered into the budget, would it be necessary for you to propose such restrictive provisions of the law here? Should such restrictive provisions suggest that you are not in charge of the ruling coalition of those Nie's superhumans who work at the same time in five commissions at the same time, and each paid professionally, so individual incomes reach 400,000 dinars per month from the president of the VSS? That was public. I don't want to mention the others. How many who do not know that they receive such compensations until young people do not work, receive salaries and pay funds and contribute to the sustainable financing of this fund? When they ask me if I'm afraid I'm gonna take a pension, I say no. I'm afraid that my children or many children will have a place to work in this and this state that doesn't care about it, or the sustainability of the Pension Fund that we're discussing tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50130	Ibernes could walk on a wire. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 77th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear pensioners, you see these representatives of yours in the National Assembly have been killed to help you with the amendments. I will, however, apply to Article 77, which I have submitted to the amendment of the 2 words – half of the real rate was replaced by the words – the real rate. The SRS considers it necessary and socially justified from 1 October 2011 and from 1 April 2012 to increase pensions by a real GDP growth rate. The adoption of amendments will create conditions for the preservation of the pensioner's standard of living. You'll probably accept my amendment, because in 2011, I think it's a pre-election year and you'll probably want to do this again to increase your pensions and thus trick pensioners again. Mr. Milosavljevic, you were the Minister of Agriculture when you told the farmers nice stories before the elections, and now you became Minister of Trade. I think you've become a death for the pensioners. You keep increasing the price of products they need to buy, you smile there, but you know well how you've raised the prices of rabbit and other food, life supplies and how much you've been fighting for them. You know how many pensioners, farmers there are. There's about 230 grand somewhere. The number of pensioners from the economy is moving...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50132	Thank you. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 79th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50133	This member that we have proposed to delete is saying what is actually the goal of civil and military pension insurance integration. Item 3 says this - a day in the takeover of security and the implementation of pension disability insurance under Article 1 and the PIO political fund will take over the assets, liabilities and employees of the Military Insurance Fund. He'll take over the property. So, you'd like to take a little more inn, sell some. The same member of the law says – exclusively from the 3rd position of this member the takeover does not refer to the obligations of maturity, and they are not reconciled by the request of the beneficiary of military pensions, based on whether the personal determination of pensions and fines. So you won't admit your debts, and you want property? This is the goal of the integration of the military pension fund. Military pensioners, you see how the state breaks down, how the property is taken. It's the Socially Responsible Government. We want property, and we don't recognize debt. What did they tell you, are there lawsuits in Strasbourg? There are. Right? And you bring a bill like this to the Assembly and expect us to give support. Who in their right mind can support a law like this? This is a robbery, this is a kidnapping. This isn't going anywhere. In African countries, this has not happened, what you are doing for this country. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50134	Mrs. Kolundjia, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50135	Madam President, first of all, I would ask that you really ask the MPs not to insult the National Assembly and to behave with respect for the dignity of this institution. If they don't have enough arguments, it still doesn't give them the right to behave extremely rudely. What's also inadmissible is that someone claims that one state property that remains state property represents a robbery. With certainly creative interpretation and the need to accuse this government of everything living and even what they left behind if they owed. So why didn't they solve these pensions for the disabled when they were in power? It's really inadmissible, we now listen with serious attention to what is a serious argument. It is inadmissible that someone, first of all, is untrue, secondly, to amnesty himself of responsibility and to transfer his own responsibility to someone else and thirdly, to accuse that the robber is that the state property will remain state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50136	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 80th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich. Does anyone want a word? You want a replica? He can't. Thank you. The 82nd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50137	This is the last amendment we've submitted and where we've asked for the position of Article 2 82. The proposal deletes and speaks of the same approach, i.e. the same attitude before the Constitutional Court, the law, etc. You really gave me the cream to close the debate. There are skills that are acrobat and interesting to watch. There's one skill and one game that's been played up in this country these days, and it's called a debt game, where it's famously photographed the signing of a contract, the borrowing of a country, and the transfer of fiscal responsibility to the burden of future generations. This game of debtors threatens to turn into a life scenario for all of us with the skill, expertise and competence of this government. That, what debt the pension fund is in, what deficit the budget is in, is the most serious concern of all of us, and hopefully the reason to think a little differently about what's waiting for you tomorrow or right after New Year's. I thank you for your attention, and once again, I apologize to all the employees of the Assembly and the accompanying services that your work plan required them to work with us until these late hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50138	I didn't appoint you as a spokesman. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, pursuant to Article 157(5). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 84. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we are a coastal search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the day to vote. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me, Mr. Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50139	How much time do we have within the MP's group? You have 15 minutes. We have 15 minutes plus 6 that's 21. (President: Excuse me, Mr Đuro Peric is an authorised representative. You have four minutes within the MP's group. Here you go. 19 minutes total. (President: I apologize. I'll close the session again. I'm really sorry. We have to say that we agree on a few things that I want to say. The first is that without economic reforms, and large, there is no successful PIO reform. Nobody slows it down. Secondly, the starting point for the creation of this law is that the current pensioners feel as little about the restrictions on bankruptcy rights as possible. In this regard, that those future pensioners and future generations have about the same rights as the present. The third thing is that the aim of the reform is to reduce PIO expenditure from 13% of GDP to 10.5%. That's where we agree. That's why I don't see the need for scarcity and discussions that were primarily in principle, not tonight. I'd like to say a few things about that. The analysis was done. This law has been working for more than two years. There are experiences positive from EU countries and the need for the possibility of our economy and our opportunities. Also, when will this law be applied? That's clear. We will make a decision to apply the law from the day of adoption, and it is not disputed that it could be applied to December pensions in an increase of 2%. When it comes to military pensioners, it is true and perfectly regulated. The acquired rights of military pensioners are not taken over by our insistence and you heard in Mr Arsenovic's presentation of what we insist on and what we advocate, that debt be paid to military pensioners. What especially inspired us to say something is a few things that are not true. First of all, it's said we're blackmailing the coalition. Personally, I don't think it stands, but let me tell you the same truth -- it's better for a few parties to blackmail big parties, rather than for big parties to terrorise people or citizens. The next thing I want to say here is that there were words here not to be advocated by individual MP groups to cut pensions. 71/1MP/LjL22.45-22.55 What does that mean when we say we need to give up 30 billion of pensions to secure milk? They're still accusing us of being guilty of no milk. Here it was a concrete proposal. Or that the law saves nothing, that the law has no purpose. Please, I will say precisely here that the proposal of these measures provides for 80 billion to be saved in the next period in order to achieve the basic goal. No one mentioned it, but they're denying it. Next thing. Those who attacked it, they leave, simply, when the greatest ratings on TV say that and then they won't listen to us. Average pensions 70%, or our promise? I specifically say that the current average pension, when it comes to senior pensioners, is 75% in the employees, 73% and 25% in the farmers. Who can deny that? Or, if it's said that unions and others have sought and demanded that a protection limit be established to a lower level than we do now, what kind of policy is that? We can't agree to that. Why would we accept that the lowest pension is 25, 20 or 27%, if it's 33% now? Or an average pension. To say that the protective measure is 60%. She's 64% old now, I said, over 70%. Why would they agree to that? Finally, the law that has been prepared is in this situation, to the extent possible, at least restrictive in relation to all the laws that are now being prepared and adopted, both in the environment and in Europe. I just draw attention, at the very end, to certain MPs who have insulted us in the last two days, that it serves them honor and that kind of relationship only speaks of them, not of us. I wish they had the same relationship with us as we do with them. That's how we behave. We support the budget law. We recognize the Minister and her associates for preparing such a budget. I hope we adopt him. We'll vote for it. We also acknowledge the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Jovan Krkobibic and his associates for preparing such a law on pension-involved insurance and for hopefully adopting it in the day of the vote. I welcome all pensioners and wish them a happy new year 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50140	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50141	Now I'm gonna ask how much time do I have? As chief, you have a lot of time, 15 minutes. There's 75 minutes left. I want to say something. From all these discussions, I can agree with those MPs who have made several findings. One is – society is not mature for reforms, and the other is not mentally ready for reforms. So those who claim that, when they were in power, they weren't ready to take any single reform because they came from the conclusions that we had made here. What is the obligation of every government, and of us as the ruling majority, is to take and implement reforms, not to say that we are not mentally ready for them. Here they accused this government and us of some debt in the pension fund, I just want to remind myself, in 2001, 23 outstanding pensions came to power. Since then, to this day, all these debts have been settled and since today, every pensioner has regularly received his pension in time. If they have nothing else to object to, if they cannot acknowledge their own failures and unwillingness to implement reforms, then I think it would be fair for the citizens of Serbia not to be intimidated by false data, not to be threatened by images that are not accurate and any prognosis that, while this government is and this government will certainly not be realized. Once again, I call upon all those who have well-intentioned the shortcomings in this law to remind themselves once again in which this law is something that brings better to all pensioners, and to forget the wishes that we all have to be unseen, but unfortunately, we don't have the means to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-28-0.u50142	With another apology from Mr. Colakovic and Mrs. Kolundzhija, which I have not really noticed that they have applied regularly for participation in the debate, allow me to conclude a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank Mr. Minister and Associates for their participation in the work. Of course, I also thank all the MPs who took part in the work today. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29 December 2010, starting at 13.00 hours, as the Day for Voting on Points of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. So, tomorrow at 1:00 p.m., I'll see you. Thanks again. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 121 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in Voting Day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session, so I ask you to establish the quorum by inserting cards into the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall and have working conditions. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Riza Halimi and Miroslav Markicevic. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Laws on the execution of Penal Codes for Criminal Works of ORGANISED CRIME Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime crimes, in principle. Of the 144 MPs, 127 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 146 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 146 MPs, 19 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 146 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 147 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 132 MPs, four voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a has been submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 136 MPs, seven voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 136 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of a new member was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 130 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 136 MPs, six voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 135 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Out of 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting it to a vote - a bill on the execution of a prison sentence for organized crime crimes, in general. Of the 146 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the execution of a prison sentence for the crimes of organized crime. We move to a statement on the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to THE COURT OF COURT since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force at the earliest eighth day of publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication and I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill. I put to the vote the bill amending the Law on Court Orders, in general. Of 144 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on judges I am putting to the vote the proposal for this law in principle, as the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle and in particular. Of the 146 MPs for the bill, 112 voted in principle. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 19 came out. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Milica Radovic. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, for one. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, for one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Jovan Palalic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after article 5. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, for 18. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 7th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you that the government has proposed that members of the 5th and 6. The draft law has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote a proposal from the Government proposing a feedback to the provisions of Articles 5 and 6. It's a bill of law. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 5 and 6. It's a bill of law. I remind you he's a member of the 8th. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The rules of procedure, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 147 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Public Prosecution Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in principle. Of the 147 MPs for the bill, 124 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 5th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Of the 147 MPs, for no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of the 147 MPs, for no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 147 MPs, for one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you that the government is in Articles 6 and 7. The draft law provides a feedback to these provisions. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the government's proposal contained in Articles 6 and 7. The bill, on the feedback of these provisions, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. Of the 148 MPs, for 124. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 6 and 7. It's a bill of law. I remind you he's a member of the 9th. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 148 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in general. Of the 148 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. We move to paragraph 5 – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 148 MPs, for 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Of the 148 MPs, for two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you it's Article 10. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 148 MPs, for 125. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, in general. Of the 148 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. We move on to the 6th point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. Of the 148 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 148 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 148 MPs, for three. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 8th. The bill confirmed that the law would take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 148 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the State Council of Prosecutors Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the State Council of Prosecutors Act.
