ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meetings are attended by 124 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when determining the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a majority needed for the work of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the session's further session, I would like to inform the National Assembly that for today, October 14 at 3 p.m., a session of the Committee on Defence and Security is scheduled in Sali 1 at the National Assembly and at the request of the MPs. The agenda of the session is a report on the events since 10 October 2010 and various events. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session is under Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says - the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to request notice or explanation, orally, in one address, during a session of up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and immediately after the session opens. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45103	I will take the opportunity to ask a question on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group. On 11 October of this year, the Belgrade Court of Appeal suspended Ilija Jurisic's first-degree verdict, sentenced to 12 years in prison for issuing an attack order on the JNA column, which withdrew from Tuzla on 15 May 1992. So, October 11th, Jurisic was suspended from custody. That decision has no right to appeal, and he was released immediately. I can't help but remind you that at least 92 soldiers died in Brcanska Malta on May 15, 1992, wounded at least 33 soldiers and destroyed a large number of military and Sanitary vehicles. Ilija Jurisic, otherwise, was arrested at Belgrade's airport in 2007, and has been arrested immediately ever since. In September 2009, he was sentenced in Belgrade to 12 years in prison, as he said, as he ordered an attack on the JNA column, which withdrew from Tuzla. During the second stage of the procedure, which began on 22 September 2010, the rights of farce were brought before the court, as the video link from Sarajevo appeared mainly as witnesses to the defence, not any people, but those who were in very high positions on May 15th 1992, such as the commander of territorial defence, the head of security, the head of the municipality and others. So, the judge who explained the verdict, Judge Okic, explained that the case would return to a new court council in the first degree, but I must also comment on what Jurisic's lawyer said – Jurisic is now a free man and has no obligation to respond to any new court procedure and to come to Belgrade. It is a question of his face – says his lawyer. After the shameful Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica, which made Serb victims second row after the visit to honour the Srebrenica victims, not honouring the victims in Bratunc, who was ignored by President Tadic, after today's declaration to continue ranking Serbian victims, so the third-row category and victims will be introduced, and there will be no courage to say that we have victims of NATO aggression, after all, only one slight regret is mentioned in this declaration today, as if there was a car accident in Kinshasa, not that Serb civilians were killed during NATO aggression. It is not important to mention that during the BiH campaign, Zeljko Komsic said Boris Tadic promised to let him go. It is not important to see that Jurisic was released on 11 October and that Mrs Hillary Clinton was here on 12 October and Mr Tadic was greatly praised for his special merits. One of these merits will be that this BiH gift, too, is to be released. I have two questions to ask. One question I ask the minister of justice, Mrs Malovic, and it is very clear – under whose direct influence the "reformed" Serbian judiciary has left Iliju Jurisic at large? The second question is for Mr Tadic, you will say it is political, but must answer the Serbian people: who gave him the mandate to let the criminals go free, and Serbian victims are killed again and again? I will end up with only one sentence from one of the officials in Republika Srpska, who was hit with a very hot slap – after Jurisic was released from responsibility, the verdict should only state that no one was killed in the 'tuzlan column'.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45104	The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer two questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. The first question could be about – what does the government do specifically about the alarming state of health of Serbian citizens, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who is freely characterised as critical by the medical dictionary? Question number two, which I also refer to the prime minister, is – what is the government planning to do to prevent adequate professional advisory assistance from Serbia, and is related to the treatment of Professor Vojislav Seselj? What I want to point out, but also to remind you of certain facts, is well known to all of you, which is that for the eighth year, Professor Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague tribunal, where he has responded voluntarily and where the trial has come to a total stalemate. What does not matter for these questions I ask, but it is also important for the state of his health, is that Vojislav Seselj is a longtime patient who has suffered from hypertension and asthma, and has been taking treatment for many years. But what's the problem? The problem is that in the last six months the condition of Prof. Vojislav Seselj has deteriorated enormously and there are now present diseases that are vitally threatening Mr. Vojislav Seselj. We have pointed out and we suggest that neither diagnostic treatment nor therapeutic treatment contributes to the recovery of his medical condition, moreover, they directly endanger him. We feel it is necessary, since it is a citizen, a citizen of Serbia, that the state of Serbia also advocates adequately, and when I say adequately I refer to Article 24. The Constitution of Serbia, where the right to life is guaranteed to every citizen of Serbia and to the 21st member of the Constitution, where every form of discrimination is prohibited. The second question is motivated by the fact that the request of the SRS MPs did not meet the adequate and normal reactions of this home, which is required to consider the unusual act of the VMA chief, General Jevtic, who refused to allow his doctor to engage and provide advisory assistance to the team that cares about the health of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. In fact, we are unable to hold a session in the Health Committee to discuss the health situation and the necessary measures to be taken, as expert opinions by the most professional cardiologists point to the vital threat of our president. We, who make up one third of the Committee, have tried to call a session in a proper manner, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, the parliamentary majority did not want to discuss the issue, but suggested that both General Jevtic and counterpart Mijailovic were called on, and we tried that. However, the defence minister refused to allow these persons to appear on the Committee so that we could in a calm, reasonable atmosphere to advocate the protection of fundamental human rights, which is the right to live. Today we have a session of the Committee, which has been arranged neatly, so we also respected the suggestion that we have to ask the minister to allow doctors to discuss medical conditions and treatment problems. Now we expect he won't show up today. On the side of what has been committed a terrible ethical violation, one of the fundamental and most important fundamental human rights is now being violated here, and that is the right to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45106	The word is from Ambassador Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45107	Dear Chairman, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Education - who and why is obstructing the accreditation of the International University of Novi Pazar? In 2002, the International University of Novi Pazar was founded by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's decision and has so far grown into a significant university, which attends 4000 students, with outstretched departments in Nis, Pančevo, Subotica and Belgrade. The International University went into accreditation 19 months ago and until today's accreditation is not completed, i.e. the accreditation process is delayed and there seems to be a political will to prevent accreditation to the International University. Namely, the facts that contribute to this finding are as follows – the report by the rapporteur for individual programmes at International University, which was positive, did not oblige the Accreditation Commission to assign accreditation to these programmes. It also seems incredible, but true, that this same accreditation commission made an act of warning in October 2009, which it handed to the International University in June 2010, which is the case of the economy, dates back to October 2009, and was presented in June 2010, the case of information - the act dates back to November 2009, and was served in June 2010 and the case of art - the act dates back to December 2009, and was delivered in early October 2010. The question is, how did the Accreditation Commission send these warnings to the International University? An example of the University of New Market only strengthens the fact that this is even a kind of discrimination. Namely, the State University of Novi Pazar was founded in 2007 as a result of political trade between the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Sulejman Ugljanin, and this State University is not founded as a university to be complemented by already existing International University, but as a copy of the International University, and most importantly, the only university in the area of the Republic of Serbia that has the word state is the State University of Novi Pazar. The State University of Novi Pazar has received accreditation in three weeks, while the International University cannot get accreditation for 19 months. Decisions on accreditation shall be published on its website and shall not deliver those solutions to the University, thereby preventing the possibility of the initiation of a second-degree procedure, i.e. an appeal procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45108	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45109	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, are asking for a notice from all the competent authorities in the state of Serbia that are responsible for respecting the human rights and laws in this country, and especially from the public prosecutor's office, which has often been advertised on the statements of some MPs from this assembly. I call for an interview from the NIN magazine since 7 August, which has now been given by the former secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, Mr Karadzic. When asked, "To offend you, the minister is one of the reasons why he doesn't want to work with you, alleging your sexual orientation? ''and Karadzic answers, ''It is not normal for the minister of human rights to go to the prime minister and tell him that the secretary of state is gay and that it is one of his biggest problems''. I call on the state authorities to verify whether this is true and thus prove that the laws and respect for human rights are subject to all citizens of this country, whether they like some law or not. The law on the prohibition of discrimination has been passed in this assembly. We know who voted him, and regardless of who voted him, everyone has to respect him. Whether I like it or not, I'm in favor of the law. I am truly surprised that the ruling majority is not commenting on or reacting to something like this, and not even the party represented here in parliament, whose Mr Karadzic is a member. We call on the public prosecutor's office, the justice ministry, the RS government and all those in charge of respect for human rights to plead on what Mr Karadzic said. Maybe it's strange for someone to ask this question, since some other human and minority rights fighters haven't asked that question. With respect to respect for human rights, I would also like to ask and make an appeal to release everyone innocently arrested on Sunday October 10th. Trust me, there's a lot of them. There are students. There are citizens who accidentally found themselves on the streets of Belgrade. As far as I know, Sunday's curfew wasn't fooled. There's a gentleman arrested outside the door of a church with some comfort in his pocket. For those of you who know, I don't want to repeat what's so cool. It was the only evidence and was charged under Article 344 of the Criminal Code. He was threatened by a sentence of up to eight years. I urge the state authorities to release the innocent. Those who committed crimes on Sunday, who broke the law, shall be severely punished. I appeal to those who are innocently arrested. Furthermore, I claim that some citizens have been violated on Sunday. I also claim there has been an over-authorization of the police force. I want to say that I strongly condemn not the stone but the rock that fell on the police. We've been witnessing these days, these two days we're witnesses, the police are representing all the media and almost all the state authorities. Those people who are innocently arrested there, there's no one to represent. And they have the right to human rights. I appeal and beg to be released, let them defend themselves from freedom. For those of whom there is evidence that they have clearly violated the law and committed violence, I'm not interested, let them answer to the law, most strictly. I know of at least one case that a man was arrested on the stairs of a Belgrade church and didn't want to run away. Asked, "Why didn't you run too? '"He said, 'I'm not guilty, this is a free city.' Therefore, please, you who decide there in court, in the prosecution, release innocent people. There are innocents out there. I know that this is not popular with some of you, but we all need to understand that even those who have committed violence have the right to human rights and to respect the law. I don't speak for them, I speak for those who are obviously innocently arrested on Sunday. And there are, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45110	I remind all MPs of the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and remind myself of the responsibility of our public word. Please, as we give views, ask questions or express our political position, we do not break the law. This is not a good example and is not allowed at the National Assembly session. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Notice of the absence of Members of the People. I inform you that no notice has been delivered for any MPs that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National Assembly. Explanation of the grounds for calling the sitting within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure and on proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda. Proposal for an examination of the act by emergency procedure. A group of 123 MPs suggested putting on the agenda a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, who submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2010. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the MPs to come forward. Of the 154 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal to supplement the proposed agenda. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the proposed agenda be complemented by a point: a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in the clerofashist NDH, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 55 MPs of the SRS on 26 March 2010. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I'm sorry, we're interrupting the vote. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta is right. Does the People's Parliament of the Prophet Radeta want a word, based on Article 92? Rules of Procedure? You have three minutes. My personal apology. The electronic system is at the polls, which is why you couldn't sign up, and I missed calling you. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45111	Ladies and gentlemen, on March 26th, the SRS submitted a motion for a resolution condemning genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in the clerofastic Independent State of Croatia. We remind you that the independent state of Croatia was a clerofastic, quinslin state, founded in the part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which, with the support of Hitler's Germany, existed under the Usta Pavlic's Ustasha leadership from 1941 to 1945, and we wrote this in an explanation, and you refused to discuss this motion for resolution as an emergency procedure. We hope it won't be like that today. The independent state of Croatia has in history remained recorded by atrocities and genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews. The NDH programme formulated Mile Budak and he envisioned the extermination of Serbs from Croatia in principle – 1/3 to kill, 1/3 to banish and 1/3 to paralyze and assimilate. The NDH goal was to establish "great" Croatia, as pure ethnic states with only one Catholic religion and the achievement of the dreams of Ante Starcevic and Josip Frank. A genocide of Serbs, Roma and Jews in clerofastic NDH was conducted in karst caves, sites, slaughterhouses and concentration camps. In NDH they played a special role in the conduct of genocide on these peoples from that area. The miraculous misdemeanors of cruel inhumanity, debilitated sadism, the torture of helpless victims, rapes, sadistic pleasures of human suffering, insatiable whaling for other people's property, the pyromanic enjoyment of burning entire settlements, and other beasts then horrified the whole world. The beast killings and genocide of Serbs, Roma and Jews particularly took place in Jasenovac, Stara Gradiška, Simište, Metajna, Pag, Djakovo, Jadovo, Leposlava, etc., and more than 760,000 Serbian women, children and men were killed in Jasenovac alone. The fact that the Republika Srpska Krajina is also occupied by Croatia, that Ustasha crimes are freely excelled in public in Croatia, that ecumenism is taking on more and more swings, as well as the latest attempt to form a Croatian Orthodox church, is sufficient reasons to adopt this Declaration. Please, just one more sentence, we're giving you a chance, gentlemen of the ruling majority, to show that you are not hypocritical of this proposal for a declaration. Please accept that we are discussing and adopting a resolution on genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in clerofastic NDH, and Ustasha, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45112	I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the MPs to come forward. Of the 185 MPs, 30 voted for acceptance. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Boris Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the proposed agenda be complemented by a point: a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of genocide against Armenian people committed from 1915 to 1923 by Ottoman Turkey, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 54 MPs of the SRS on 23 March 2010. Whether MP Boris Aleksic wants a word, based on Article 92. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45113	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now truly seen in these examples the relationship of the ruling coalition, what is the relationship of the regime to the crime of genocide, the most serious crime after the crime against peace that exists in international law. We submitted more than seven months ago a motion for a resolution condemning genocide against the Armenian people who executed Ottoman Turkey between 1915 and 1923, when it disappeared, listen well, more than two million and 500 thousand people. You have ignored the motion for this resolution for seven months, although it was adopted in the form of a resolution or in the form of a declaration in a number of states, including some Western states, and now you will also push it under the rug. When we talk about crimes against Armenians, I will read to you something that has been adopted as a standard in world history, otherwise, that is the date that Mr Tadic met with Turkish representatives this year and signed co-operation, on the day when the genocide of Armenian people everywhere in the world began, so on 24 April 1915, the terrible persecutions of Armenian people in Ottoman Turkey began. They started by arresting Armenian intellectuals. More than 600 Armenian intellectuals, according to the Ottomans themselves, were arrested around 2345 Armenians. They were tortured in prisons, slowly killed to announce the fate of the entire Armenian people in Ottoman Turkey. When, as a witness, the US Ambassador to Carigrand Morgentau sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior of the Ottoman Empire Talak-pasha, saying that one day he would be held accountable for the crime committed, the Talak-Pasha seemed to retaliate — before whom should we bear responsibility when there is no more Armenian? These are the words that Hitler also directed when he was warned of the genocide that he carried out against the Jews, he said, "Who remembers the Jews today?" The government of the Republic of Serbia has, in reason why it does not accept this resolution, stated that it is not in the economic interests of the Republic of Serbia, that relations with Turkey are good, an act of 17 June 2010. So you put economic interest above human rights, above determining responsibility for the crime of genocide, which is indeed, ladies and gentlemen, a grave shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45114	I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the MPs to come forward. Of the 191 MPs, 31 MPs voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP Milorad Buh, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the proposed agenda be complemented by a point: a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of a border between Serbia and Croatia in the Danube, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 55 MPs of the SRS on 19 April 2010. Does the People's Messenger Milorad Buha want a word? Three minutes, under Article 92. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote and ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement. Of 192 MPs, 29 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to put on the agenda of the session of the emergency act and on proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Out of a total of 187 MPs, 127 MPs came forward for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, in general. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECLARATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE SERBIA DECLARATION OF THE VICTIMS OF THE CRIMES OF THE CRIMES AND OF THE CITIZENS OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a declaration No 02-2507/10 of 11 October 2010, which was submitted by a group of 123 National MPs and a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 191 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to exercise his right to propose or injure the Rules of Procedure? Right of suggestion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45115	I would like to suggest, on the basis of Article 3, paragraph 97, that this issue is being discussed longer than that provided for in paragraph 1, and that it be in double time, above all because of the importance of the subject. Last time there was a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica, the ruling majority rejected the proposal. Today, the ruling majority put forward a motion for a declaration of conviction against the Serb people. Against the way it was done, we have much to do, against the part of the content of this text also, against the totality of the approach when it comes to another declaration we have much against, and if then a double time for discussion is refused, I see no reason to reject it this time. There's no rush, there's no sky on the ground, no one's chasing us to have to do it one day anyway, another assembly session is scheduled after this one that's scheduled for 3:00 today, but it can always be moved for tomorrow morning, it's no problem. I don't think there are any obstacles to the ruling majority helping this debate take place in a longer time than anticipated. So I'm looking for a double time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45116	Since the president of the DSS parliamentary group has proposed a long debate in principle, i.e. that the time of debate for parliamentary groups be 10 hours, the National Assembly is deciding on this proposal without a search. I put this proposal to the vote, tabled by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Of the 180 MPs, 54 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Dragan Markovic was also reported. Do you want to make a suggestion? No, I don't. ) Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once for up to five minutes. I ask all MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for a word, with a order of MPs, and with a reminder of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, that the parliamentary groups who hand over the lists of speakers are obliged to, with the name of the MP who wishes to address the National Assembly, to point out whether or not it is for or against, because that is the Rules of Procedure to determine the order of the Members of Parliament. I would like to inform you that at this point in the agenda, the following MPs will be: MP Zoran Ostojić to the LDP parliamentary group; MP Slobodan Samardzic to the DSS and MP Aleksandar Martinovic to the SRS. I also ask the parliamentary groups that if they have information on the MPs designated as authorised representatives, neither the president nor the deputy president of the parliamentary group to deliver so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 190(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. Does a representative of the Proposer, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45118	The President-in-Office, distinguished fellow MPs, when the Serbian Parliament decided in a way to determine the past and tragic events of the 1990s, when it decided to adequately equate all victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia and to give institutional support to all competent institutions to bring the perpetrators of these crimes to justice, a decision was made to make two declarations and to determine in the best possible way the relationship between the Republic of Serbia's Parliament and what was happening in the near past. When we discussed why it was important for the National Assembly to do so, we had in mind that it was necessary to establish a real relationship with the events of the '90s, on the one hand, but that it was also necessary to create minimum assumptions for the continuation of the normal lives of people in these areas. That's the essence of this declaration, I don't think there's any need to prove to anyone that every member of the Serb people hurts every Serbian victim. What was also important to us is that as a people, we show that we also have compassion with the victims of other peoples. The declaration does not aim to foster a debate that would compete in patriotism, which would compete to prove our regret for the victims who are members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. The purpose of this declaration is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to give full institutional support to all the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia that, above all, these crimes are never forgotten, that their perpetrators do not escape justice, that no policy is ever being conducted that leads to new victims. At the same time, the purpose and message of this declaration is to call on the institutions of other countries and in the same way determine themselves according to the victims of the Serb people and the perpetrators of the crimes against the Serb people. At the same time, the purpose of this declaration is to insist on international institutions responsible for the processing of crimes committed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia that perpetrators of crimes against Serb peoples, Serbian citizens, are treated in the same way as perpetrators of crimes against other peoples. The intention is for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to give full support to all its institutions, international institutions and calls to the institutions of the countries in the environment to set themselves in the same way towards Serbian victims. In that sense, I hope sincerely, and I expect that this will not be a debate about who prefers Serbs, that this will not be a debate about who is more hurt by the wounds of his generation, but that this will be a debate between the responsible institution that intends to shed light on the past in the right way, to define responsibility as individual responsibility for each perpetrator and to make sure that all victims are equal in the satisfaction of justice, on the one hand, in the obligation that these victims are not forgotten and in the obligation of the state and the institutions never to repeat such a thing again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45119	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45120	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the SPS-JS Parliament Club on behalf of me to thank you for finally getting this point on the agenda. I think this is the right time to talk about this subject, given that Serbs have never waged conquest wars, that Serbs have defended their hearths where they lived for centuries, and that we have tried all the time to say that Serbs and Serb people are a genocide people. The SPS-JS parliamentary club is asking the Croatian parliament to condemn a crime against the Serb people, to do the same to the Bosnian parliament. Why? Because there were 500,000 Serbs on the list in Croatia in 1991, and in 2001 there were 200,000 Serbs, so one of the 300,000 Serbs was killed, one part expelled to Serbia. A very small number of Serbs live in Sarajevo today. In KIM 200,000 Serbs were expelled, and we were bombed for genocide and ethnic cleansing, and we experienced both. I just want to tell you when I'm at KiM, there are 12,000 people in Blac, and 4,000 Serbs are with KIM. I guarantee there is no city in Albania where there are five Albanians who have been expelled from the KIM. Also, we ask that NATO apologize, because a large number of civilians were killed during NATO aggression. If NATO apologized to Afghanistan, it should do the same to Serbia. Just reminding me that spokeswoman Jamie Shay, if I recall correctly, said killing civilians was collateral damage. NATO has an obligation to apologize to Serbia for what it did in 1999. There was a bombed bridge in Barvarin where over 15 young people died, and they were guilty just because that day was a fair and they found themselves on the bridge. Little Milica, who was wearing a bathrobe, a train that had civilians at the Gredelic ravine, 16 civilians and workers, journalists in RTS, and I especially want to say that NATO knew that a large number of journalists were working in the building and someone was saying that there was a need to make a dislocation. What kind of dislocation would be in the world without NATO's radar systems finding out where RTS is, or workers who were then obliged to report what was happening to Serbia? Also, everything the international community has sought since Serbia in recent years, Serbia has respected all its obligations. A large number of Serbs are in The Hague, except for two on the list, are not in Serbia, if they are in Serbia, let them tell us where they are. It seems that he is only being tried by the Serb people, and was released from prison the other day by Ilija Jurisic, who has the command responsibility to receive a minimum of 20 years in prison because he gave the order to so-called. The Tuzlan column of soldiers attacks and over 50 soldiers are then injured over 100 soldiers, and they also knew that the soldiers were unarmed and that they were retreating and that they were coming to Serbia. Also, did someone ask us to join the EU without allowing a parade of shame? Here's what Serbia did, and what did we get? Knowing that what will happen on the streets of Belgrade, we from the SPS-JS parliamentary club are against violence and condemning those who attacked police, but a large number of those present were not violent then at the rally. What was said that night with the smile of those who were the organizers of the gay parade? That Lazar, one of the homosexuals, says, "Today Belgrade has lost its virginity! "So what does that mean in translation? Every day they hold press conferences, both yesterday and today, and they mock 99% of Serbian citizens that they must listen to what is a disease and what is not natural. Are the consequences of Italy, October 10th? I think so. We also condemn the rampage of individual fans in Italy, who attacked our team and are asking to be severely punished, but there were nearly 2,000 fans there. From what I hear today, 16 people have been arrested, and everyone has been scanning for what they've been running in the stadium. Hilary Clinton's arrival in Serbia is a good thing for Serbia, and I hope that the Secretary of State of America will correct that mistake made by her husband and give the order to bomb SRJ 99. A good report, or I like the Secretary of State's speech, all that has to do with it, now you're preparing to warn me, all this has to do with this subject, to tell them that we're not a genocide people and to tell them what's happened to Serbia in recent years and what we've done in our defense. So it's good and I like Mrs Hillary Clinton's answer that Serbia is closer to the EU. I also like the position of Serbian President, who told the US Secretary of State that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. What's important right now? To declare this declaration, to remind those who decide on the fate of Serbian citizens that they have other great responsibilities. Croatia celebrates the state holiday "Storm", where 1909 Serbs were killed, from western Slavonia expelled 15,000 Serbs, and we apologize all the time. All right, we apologized to both us and our president, but we have to say what the Serbs have experienced and what's been happening to them these past years. Also, our dissatisfaction is related to the security of Serbian citizens in KIM. Given that a large number of Serbs have disappeared since 2000, what happened on 17 March 2004, we have not heard of anyone being processed or answering, and more Serbian villages being burned. That, too, is what we should condemn in this House and wherever we are to talk about it, and it is no shame, because these are true actions, or there are facts with material evidence. Serbia is popular in Europe and the world, and the arrival of two senior officials in America, and the arrival of Russian President Medvedev and the departure of President Tadic to other countries is an indication that Serbia has a good future. In the end, I just want to invite all foreign investors and not be hesitated by what happened on the streets of Belgrade and Italy, so that the Serbs think they're a bad people. Serbia has great security and can bring their capital to Serbia, given that without foreign investors we cannot reach new jobs. And today we show this declaration that we respected other victims, but also ours, who were in the space of the republics that made up the former Yugoslavia. The SPS - JS Parliament Club will vote for this declaration. We are not thrilled with the text, because they are very mild terms, unlike the terms that were in the Srebrenica declaration, but it is in some way a comfort of a large number of Serbian citizens that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will never forget what some have done to us, and we will also not stop when it comes to the journey to Europe, we will continue to work with such a full pair.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45121	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45122	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. I think that the dignity of the National Assembly and of all MPs has been injured in part of the presentation of Palma, for the following reason: I can understand, Madam Chairman, that people present different political opinions both on people and on events, that someone may be delighted with Hillary Clinton, although the woman said that the status can no longer be discussed when it comes to kim, to be delighted with Boris Tadic and his activities, can be satisfied or dissatisfied with this or that, but I do not think that someone in his presentation has the right to misinform, for the sake of personal political promotion, the National Assembly and those citizens of Serbia who are following the transfer of the National Assembly, in terms of the content of the text that has been submitted here. That moment is not acceptable. So we can interpret the text differently, say it's good, bad, like it or something, defend our position, but harshly state the truth about the content of the text, it's not right. In fact, he just said, I'm going to try to paraphrase, not quote, I can't, because I don't have a stenogram in front of me – we're asking NATO to apologize for the bombing and the crime. It doesn't say anything in the text. Mr Dragan Markovic Palma is a signator of the proposal for the text of this declaration and his words "we are looking in the context of the defence of this declaration" I can only understand as an explanation of the request in the declaration. There's no such request. Not only is he not there, but rather the crimes the NATO Pact committed against Serbia and Serbian citizens in 1999, whether they are Serbs or not, cannot be treated as the proponent in the declaration treats him, as some car accident in Guatemala, to express regret over these victims. That regret, that's all the text says. It doesn't say anything similar to what Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma is saying, it's not about any request or demand that the NATO pact be apologized to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45123	There's no damage to article 107. National MP Dragan Markovic was on the verge of violating Article 106(1), but since the subject is such that in explaining the text of a declaration that can be used in front of us by different arguments, he even explained in his text why he mentions events that are not in the text. It cannot yet be a violation of the reputation of the Parliament of the oral request of any MP, seeking a public apology from NATO for civilian victims, so I ask you to focus in the explanation on what kind of sin has indeed been committed, that is, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Markovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45124	Mr. Aligrudic, obviously you misread me, what I was saying. I said we didn't like this text, but if you misread me, I hope your memory serves you well, that when Javier Solana first came to Serbia after NATO aggression, your president and president of the SRJ then said, let me welcome our friend. What was that then? It was still in our heads that hot blood. I guess we're getting a little cold now. We tried to fight, we failed, we're small to fight with great forces, we can't fire embassies, it's not the way to join the EU. Also, I would like to remind you that over 2,000 Shipar terrorists were released from prison by the pardon of former Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica, and the president of your party, when there was still hot blood in our heads. Today we cooled off and we said - I'm not thrilled that Mrs. Hillary Clinton came, but you know what, you can represent personal ideology at home to your family, not ideology that will damage eight and a half million Serbian citizens. I said I liked what she said, that Serbia is much closer to the EU and that President Tadic, like all of us sitting here, and a large number of the opposition, said they would never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence to join the EU. Also, then you said -- behold, Palma and the SPS agreed to vote for the Srebrenica Declaration, there will never be a declaration of crimes against the Serb people. You can see that this came on the agenda today. Please, don't tell me what you're saying and think what I was thinking today, because if I said what I was thinking today, and if I remember what happened by 2008, these demonstrations that were the other day, they're children who were 16 to 18 years old, and you were in power by 2008, which means those kids were raised at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45125	On the violation of the Rules of Procedure, explained by MP Milos Aligrudic, calling for a violation of Article 107, the Assembly will declare in voting day. National MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45126	I had previously asked for a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that it would not remain unarranged, it is, of course, the injury of the chairman. You corrected it a little while ago, by saying that the Assembly would declare itself in the day of voting on the injury I pointed out, because you had previously disagreed that there had been injuries. You should have done it right away, not given the right to a replica. After all, I will not claim the right to replica after Mr Dragan Markovic's presentation. I said what I was thinking, and everything else doesn't matter, we'll discuss the point. It was the only thing wrong with the procedure. You, of course, never apologize for your actions, or fix it in fact, or just go over something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45127	You'll see with your stenogram that every time a mistake is made, I apologize for the procedure. Today's example - the People's Parliament to Veriqa Radeti, of course, which, right after the explanation, is not said that in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare the argument you made for Article 107, so it does not stand. National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45128	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, we today have a second act of that debate that we have held, if I am not mistaken, in late April on the proposal for a declaration of Srebrenica. A partial declaration was then adopted, which drew one place and one group of people killed from the entire war crimes complex and war events in the former Yugoslavia. A declaration was made that you adopted most of it, which actually speaks of one category of victims of violence and crimes during these wars. Then you announced there would be another declaration of crimes against Serbs. We did not oppose, as has been said here today, nor did we doubt that this declaration would occur, but we were against adopting two, three or five declarations of a common single event, which had a common single result that innocent victims had been killed in these war events and that we had to treat all innocent victims as the National Assembly of Serbia equally and treat them and thus adopt a single declaration of condemnation. You didn't do it last time, and what we're doing today is a coincidence. Now again, we're discussing one category of victims separately. I don't know if you're predicting any further debates about a new category of victims. In any case, it's both inhumane, and immorally and politically harmful, but what to do, you went that way, and we're either in a position or in trouble just to answer. The DSS also submitted a motion for a declaration when discussing the Srebrenica Declaration condemning all victims equally, no matter where nationalities, no matter where they were victims of war events, and today they will repeat their position. There's no place to make two declarations, there's room for one declaration, and it's still time to do so. Why did you put up with this kind of tactics? Namely, you needed the Srebrenica Declaration for External Use and the Serbian Declaration for Internal Use. Since the declaration of Srebrenica was made, there have been several months, there have been no travels by the President of the Republic around the world, there has been no debate on meeting the conditions for Serbia's EU bid, without President Tadici saying someone else from the government – we have adopted the Srebrenica Declaration. In fact, that declaration serves and it has indeed been used to the full for these purposes, I mean at least a thousand percent. Maybe more than you suggested and what you expected. This second declaration, it should serve for internal use, as I said, that when someone in the public says – you adopted a unilateral Srebrenica Declaration, so that it can be said – no, we also adopted a declaration about Serbian victims or citizens of Serbia who died in these war events. That's not how you treat war victims. There's no minimum of principle, no humanity, no morality, and at least there's political brains in that thing. Let's look at what it says in your declaration of crimes against Serbs and Serbian citizens. In that declaration, as you just heard, there is a difference, a selection of two types of victims. One of the victims of the crime, according to which one stand of conviction is expressed, is convicted of victims of crime in the areas of the team, team and team, and then others are mentioned, where they actually express regret over the victims of NATO bombing, there are no victims of the crime. So these are the victims of a lower rank than those of the first victims who are victims of the crime. It is written in the same sentence, the two different attitudes, that inappropriate sorting of victims of Serbian, Serb and Serbian citizens during wars to be mentioned. If you look together and the declaration that was brought a few months ago about Srebrenica, then you'll see that there are actually three categories of victims. In fact, the worst conviction of a crime committed against Bosniaks etc., the people, according to what the International Court of Justice confirmed about this crime. The very fact that this declaration has been specifically made and that it is particularly condemned against these victims suggests that it is again a particular category of victims. So you're here to determine two declarations of three categories of victims: one is the highest-ranking victim, one is the middle-ranking victim, and one is the lowest-ranking victim. That's what you wrote in this declaration. Will this satisfy the need for the public to express judgment and agree with the attitude of the National Assembly? Not at all. It will only cause new disputes and new problems in interpretations. We will be spinning around these things in an unnecessary, very long time in the coming months and years and we will not put an end as the National Assembly, Serbia's largest representative body, to the question of condemnation of war crimes. This could only be done if it were wise to bring one declaration and all these crimes in the same way of condemnation. This declaration, this proposal, has another very ugly consequence. It is actually a revision of history, a recent history of Serbia, which is being carried out in this declaration. That attitude toward the so-called The victims of NATO bombing, therefore, not victims of crime, is actually one amnesty in this declaration of what NATO did in 1999 in SR Yugoslavia. NATO, to remind you, without any decision by the Security Council or any other UN body, has unilaterally committed military aggression against Serbia and committed a crime against peace. The crime against peace is a general framework for the assessment of all victims, those are the victims of NATO's crimes. If you do not mention in this declaration the crime that NATO has committed, you are already characterising it as the victims of NATO bombing, so to a lesser extent than you did with those previous victims, who are victims of crime, then you are actually, as I said, amnesty of NATO. Perhaps you need it now, from this mind today, given the political moves, at the request of the ruling structure in Serbia, to make Serbia a NATO member. It's from the point of view of today's mind, we're reviewing our whole newer history and we're already trying, the population slowly, in these mild words, to convince that what NATO did is not a crime. It is the historical effect of this resolution if it is carefully read, not diagonally and signed. It's simple, this text of Semora reads carefully, and that's what it says. That's the meaning of that text. It's not the only history revision you've done with this text. The next revision is Slovenia's amnesty for war crimes. Why? The text says that crimes committed against the population in wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo are condemned. I'm sorry, we all remember that these wars began with the war in Slovenia and that the territorial defence of Slovenia committed many crimes against regular army soldiers, then called the Yugoslav People's Army. You had on TV evidence of that, when they kill people in uniform, who keep a white sheet in front of them. If the Slovenians are hiding it, and if they try to get away with what they did back then, and they actually started the whole war story in the former Yugoslavia, why are we doing this to them now, not counting that these wars started in Slovenia, but started in Croatia, it is not a historical fact. The fact is they started in Slovenia. You're dealing with today's smartness again, which you want to actually finish some jobs in today's policy just like in the case of NATO. You want to join NATO, you start amnesting him for war crimes. You now need the help of Jelko Kacin for these European integrations, he is a rapporteur for Serbia in the European Parliament and you need the help of Slovenia. Now no one can mention the fact that the war started in Slovenia and that 48 soldiers died there on the justice of God, and that they were killed from the back, and when they gave up and when they had a white flag, etc. Be careful, that question is being raised in Slovenia. There are associations that publicly raised the issue of responsibility for the territorial defence of Slovenia and Slovenia's leadership for killed soldiers last year. We actually forgive the Slovenians for what they open there. Why are we doing this? I think someone's gonna give a reason. We haven't heard the explanation from the reporter, but I hope most of the people she signed will have someone to show why it was done. You see, this whole resolution has more purpose. So it sorts the victims, and reduces the importance of NATO and Slovenia's crimes at the time, but it also has one extreme pragmatic purpose today. She's actually a gift to the U.S. Secretary of State who was here the day before yesterday. It is one gift given to her, to go to Brussels and say, Serbs are good, it is necessary for the Netherlands to veto, on which it is otherwise entitled, demanding it explicitly, on this Serbian candidacy. Of course, here's the Netherlands accepts not to participate in this matter and it turns out that the Council of Ministers can give the commission a warrant to continue its work and most votes, i.e. possibly one state refrains from voting, which is most likely to happen. So, for that little thing, and that thing isn't god knows what, it's Serbia's candidacy, please don't follow the media writing like that. It is merely passing on our request from the Council of Ministers to the Commission, that the Commission will, on the basis of a request from 4,000 questions it will give us, so when we answer them, it is from Serbia's first territories, etc., then it will give its opinion on the basis of which the Council will once again say that Serbia has candidate status, at least two years. Now for this little act, we need to amnesty NATO and agree to the Secretary of State to make us a pedestal in Brussels and say Serbs aren't bad. Look, that's one little pragmatic dirty purpose of this declaration, one little gift to the Madam Secretary of State. The second gift is again for US Secretary of State to release Ilija Jurisic from prison. So, practically his release, returning to the first degree, but no one thinks Ilija Jurisic will return to Belgrade for a retrial. Look, it's a convicted war criminal, so someone to whom the verdict is given on the basis of proceedings, investigations and opinions, i.e. Court decisions. This thing is now being revised suddenly, not because Haris Silajdzic two or three months ago conditioned a meeting with Tadic, but because Mrs Clinton is here and giving the prize, I repeat why, after 25 October, a Courier of the Council of Europe would transfer an envelope with our candidacy, with a request for candidacy across the way to the Commission building. We've really burned down on the low branches. Think about the consequences of one of these resolutions. Let's not act crazy. It's all in the function of this particular thing. So a resolution like this, with these goals, with these consequences, with this kind of content doesn't deserve any votes in this assembly, absolutely no votes. Of course, I don't think this assembly is going to turn now compared to the time we talked about Srebrenica and she's going to start thinking about some of the arguments that are being made here. This congregation really looks like one group, one voting machine and everything. It's good to actually discuss it. I'm grateful for the fact that I can even say that somewhere. These things are hidden from the public, the whole story of European integration, the relationship with the United States, the unwritten conditions that we have to accept. Namely, why did Tadic and Srebrenica boast so much, with this declaration? Nowhere does it say that we need to adopt the Srebrenica declaration to meet EU requirements. There are unwritten conditions for which our state, our government has agreed and therefore this declaration is brought. She's inadmissible anyway, she's inhuman, she's politically shallow and very prosaic and she didn't deserve acceptance. We, though, formally speaking, as the Assembly, have the opportunity to correct this. I'm only talking about theoretical possibilities now, knowing that it's difficult to implement. That's why the DSS tabled an amendment to this declaration. You've got it. I'm not going to explain that amendment because I explained it as a proposal for a declaration about Srebrenica. It is the same text, but it can still be brought theoretically and annul this partial view of the victims of war in Yugoslavia and turn Serbia towards a civil normality, when it comes to past events, of the 1990s. So, one normality that will share the largest number of citizens and where it is most normal, no matter what anyone thinks about wars, the causes etc., that as a civilized people and this Assembly as its representation condemns all victims equally during wars in the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45129	16 minutes and 20 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The floor has a representative of the proposing National MP, Nada Kolundži.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45130	I don't know how it's even possible for anyone to claim that this or any declaration can write history. So you know how history is written. This declaration is an act in which an institution in this country expresses its view towards an event and at the same time gives support to those in charge and competent to qualify, assess and process events. How one can claim that this declaration can conduct any investigation, determine, qualify, measure crimes. So neither this declaration nor any declaration can nor deal with it. So, we don't qualify victims here in any way, we don't value ourselves in different ways, we don't do crime qualifications. Thus, this declaration cannot be amnested by any single crime, nor has the intention been passed and these declarations to do so. It is known in which way someone can amnesty and any declaration that we would bring and condemn the entire planet would not lead to any credibility and that it has the right basis for someone to answer on the basis of our declaration. It's based on the process that's being conducted. That's why it is important for this declaration, because this declaration gives full support to our institutions to lead the investigation, to search for evidence. We ask the institutions of countries in the environment that they do the same thing in their countries so that the truth about the Serbs' suffering will also adequately reach their public, but so that the perpetrators will also answer, as well as the perpetrators who committed crimes against other peoples. These stories about what we want to give here, it still needs to be a little bit more serious. I think there really is a minimum responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. If Serbian citizens say that interest is, and 70% of citizens say that their interest is to enter the EU, it is indeed unacceptable to insult more than 70% of Serbian citizens by mocking this legitimate goal and the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45131	Right on line, MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45132	Mrs. Kolundjia, I suppose I'm the one in your sentences. I've really recognized myself in someone you mentioned as someone five or six times, so I'm calling. Mrs. Comic has the same opinion as me, so she gave me her word. I didn't say the declaration says history, I said that history is being revised. That's two different things. History review is done in various ways. It's never official and it's never open. It's actually practical and it's done through these acts, through the president's speeches, where he's actually something that a historical fact can do in a different way. The declaration makes the difference between crimes against Serbs and Serbian citizens during the wars in Croatia, BiH, KIM and NATO bombing victims. I don't know if you have a sense of language or the meaning of words. If I'm wrong, please answer me why didn't you, when you mentioned NATO victims, say, as you said before, as you said in the Srebrenica Declaration, that it was about the crimes of NATO bombing or the victims of NATO bombing? That's the difference between the victims you're making and the ones I explained, and you can make any language pirates you want. It just doesn't work, you can't explain it. I just reconstructed what the text says and nothing else. As far as these circumstances are concerned, which I was talking about, which you're replicating, you've made one replacement, extremely unjust, between today's authorities and the citizens of Serbia. It is a characteristic of governments that involve autocraticism and authoritarianism. They're actually that kind of replacement real and you did it. I'm sorry I can't explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45133	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word, a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45134	Just for a little while. As you claim, through the history of your political action and political parties there have been various claims, so history has cruelly written some other things. I also believe, no matter what anyone here says today, that history will be equally just or equally ruthless of facts. PRESIDENT: National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Progressive Group, has a word for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after eight months we have before us the text of this declaration condemning crimes against Serbs and Serbian citizens and not accepting our proposal to include all victims and all criminals with one text. Today you would like to achieve a difficult task, to divide yourself as a person and to count on the citizens of Serbia to be able to follow you in all of this. You would like to introduce us into the EU by being able to organise a gay parade, and patriotism towards Serbian citizens to show by condemning crimes against Serbs. I think it's hard for many of you. Of course, I'm very pleased to hear today from whoever represents you today that a decision has been made to make two declarations, I just don't know where that decision was made. It's not in your head. You signed the papers you didn't even read because one of your debaters said today that he wasn't satisfied with the declaration, and he signed it. You know, when you're not satisfied with something, don't sign it. Turns out someone else is thinking with your head. This is about some kind of pressure from the public that wasn't too great, as nothing sincere about protecting the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people was expected of you. If you were truly honest about protecting Serbian citizens, you would provide milk, provide oil, stop inflation, arrest criminals. You wouldn't brag if you arrested all those who organized the riots in Belgrade, and then it happened to you, Genoa, where new organisers appear. It's obvious you're getting away from somewhere and you need a session where you show patriotism. Let's see how far you can go in Serbia's defence, because I'm trying to figure out what your red line is. You offered us point 1 of the declaration to condemn the crimes committed in the Republic of Croatia, BiH, the KIM against the Serbian people and the citizens of Serbia. You didn't even say territory outside KIM. Alexinac, the victims of Alexinac, little Milica Rakic, are not mentioned in this declaration because they did not die on KIM. So much for the mind of whoever wrote this. Then, instead of having the crime that NATO committed, because I'm already reading it, you're particularly detaching NATO. If you condemn the crimes committed on KIM, you have condemned NATO. What do you need NATO's separation from this conviction? The NATO representative will tell you – that you have condemned us at this first point, or perhaps you will tell the citizens of Serbia – we have condemned NATO to this first point, but the second is to pour ash. In another, as if you were a NATO representative. I expect NATO to say -- we regret it, and we are complicit in the pain of families who have suffered from NATO bombing, and as representatives of Serbia's citizens, you pushed instead of NATO's organisation and said, we express regret and complicity. Then we're sorry for all the crimes committed against the Serbs. Why did you not express your regret for the first point, when we are such a merciful people and when we express our regret, that you did not express regret over the people who died in BiH, the people who died in Croatia? I suppose they deserve some regret, too, don't they? I suppose the crime committed by NATO deserves to be convicted as a crime committed against Serbian citizens and the Serb people? You know, you have to have some vision, you have to have some line leading you. Don't do business like this. This doesn't mean anything. After the Srebrenica Crime Conviction Declaration, no other declaration is worth any more attention, because what you would say to me in Bajcetina, you're brushing your teeth. This is dental floss. And that's what we've condemned. You didn't judge anything. In addition, you give full support to those who investigate crimes, collect evidence, pursue crimes committed against Serb peoples and citizens of Serbia. Doesn't everyone who investigates any crime, who prosecutes him, who collects evidence, support from this congregation? Does it turn out that this assembly only provides support to war crimes investigating authorities? That's why there's no fight against crime, bribery and corruption. The congregation did not give them the support to fight it. They are at the mercy of the government, the hands of the government, and they investigate what they are laughing at. They're going to the door they're laughing at. That's your declaration, too. You made it to the NATO gate, and that's where you turned and came back. You're not going any further. I really don't understand the fifth and sixth points. We condemn crimes, and we don't guide other peoples what they need to do to bring peace and reconciliation. Give me another declaration. Call on parliaments today, not taking into account the past, to reconcile the people and the states, to work better together, and we will participate. In a declaration condemning crimes committed against the Serbian people, you call on other states, even giving support to those who represent us before the International Court of Justice. You've got your grandmothers and frogs mixed up. Mr Samardzic did not remind me, but I have here written down the Republic of Slovenia which you have amnesty, and you have pictures on Austrian television shooting our children. It's not a crime, is it? Or perhaps Slovenia needs to help us in some of the EU's accession actions? You don't go to the EU naked and barefoot. You don't go crawling, because there's no begging for charity. There are people there who work, help to work even better. For those who don't work and ask for help, there's no charity. So I'm asking you to think this through. You will adopt this declaration. You'll see if you can boast of it. Will Serbia's citizens really accept that this is finally a decisive stance in defending Serbia's citizens, Serbs in particular, from future crimes and in the desire that everyone who has committed crimes on us will be punished. With a declaration like this, you have not deterred anyone from trying to bomb us again, to go back to war with us in a village or a city because it has a different understanding of Serbia than we do. The declaration was to refer those who are moving against Serbian and Serbian citizens again to the thought of being severely punished. If such a declaration awaits them, expect almost unrest in some parts of Serbia, if several years after these riots, the Serbian Parliament adopts such a declaration. I know it is difficult to reconcile the interests of a large number of political parties that are now made up of the Serbian government, but you are here protecting the interests of the Serbian president alone. These are all ideas from his cabinet and the story of the attack on a police officer on the state a week after the amnesty of a man who attacked a police officer is just protecting the ideologies of the President of the Republic's office and it has to collapse. He can't run Serbia by the Citadel. They can't take her to the office. They can take her to the office. Don't let him push his press attaché, don't direct the media over two people from his office. Don't let him provide his co-workers with millions of euro jobs just to represent him in front of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens are asking that whoever decides about them tell them that he has decided. That is why, in order not to re-write any declarations in the future, we call on you to consult with the citizens of Serbia when you resolve the most important Serbian issues, the most important issues of the Serbian state. If you are going on some negotiations these days, and I see that those who lead you to the negotiations have arrived, start with the support of Serbia's majority. Do not move with the support you have yourself here in the congregation. There are partial interests here. All of you who will vote for this declaration can go to the polygraph whether you are for it or not. How long would it take you on that polygraph? How many parliamentary groups, I think, in a hundred percent, would vote against this declaration that you are not members of the ruling coalition, that you do not heartle honey and milk for another year or how long have you decided to be in power? What do we do after that? What's going to stay after that? Squabbled Serbia? You're not preventing any occurrences. You don't work with people anywhere. Run like firemen to put out the fires. You expect some politician to get involved in something you could charge him with. That's not gonna happen. You interfered with Belgrade's solution, so you see what it looks like when someone burns Belgrade. Now think about how the citizens felt when you ran into Belgrade on October 5th. Now. Whenever you condemn someone who repeats it, you condemn yourself. The difference is, after your savagery, the government changed, so television said it was democracy. After this ferocity, power hasn't changed, and television says -- they were hooligans, and some say it was repeated on October 5th. What's the difference? They just didn't have as much money as they gave you October 5th. So, the one who runs the country has to run it in continuity, one policy, one relationship with all phenomena and all citizens, and you change it from day to day. Better we change you than you change Serbia. This Serbia doesn't deserve to be changed the way you change it. You organized a gay parade to create a riot in Belgrade. That was the goal of those who organized it and allowed it. Whenever it's a bad government, it's the police. And that day only the police suffered, 6,000 police officers must not dispel 6,000 protesters but suffer beatings. What uniforms? Ever since Dusan Mihajlovic, they've been bought uniforms in which apartment they went to take a shower, to settle? In single homes on Ban's hill and across Belgrade where police officers are living to protect order and peace. One day they'll realize that they're actually protecting some individuals by taking beatings. Take care of yourself that day. Don't let the state fall into chaos because you're guarding individuals. And those you accuse of being organizers, they're all chickens from your flock. And those you accuse of funding them are all chickens from your flock, your leaders' associates. One day, I guess it'll all come out. That is why I would like to give full support to all those who are investigating any crime in Serbia. To bring to justice those who are criminals. Not according to grandmothers or uncles or politicians or politicians' wishes, but only by law and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45136	14 minutes of time has been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word is given by Nada Kolundži, an authorised representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45137	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, there is obviously not enough serious subject, so neither is the sacrifice of the Serb people to call it mouthwashing. I would like to say that this text of the declaration came about by holding several sessions of the college, where we discussed some original work text that appeared, and then representatives of the parliamentary groups, were making their remarks, making comments. That's why we've arranged this text, based on these comments. The truth is, for the record, no cabinets, no invisible centers of power have ever worked on this. This is what MP groups were working on. I want to say, first of all, those MP groups who were interested in working on this, as there are MP groups who are not interested in working on either one question, and those who now say they don't know how this text came from, show that they weren't interested in order on this issue. What is something that I find important to the citizens of Serbia to know is that we do not do this to boast. It is totally offensive that an institution’s effort to express its clear relationship with the events of the 1990 ’ s, in which many people have lost their lives, is considered to be done to boast. I believe whoever said that, everything he does, does to brag. What was our intention was not to give mutual support to the institutions, both in the country and in the environment, to treat the victims of the Serb people in the same way as the victims of some other peoples. That's our intention with this declaration. The word that we have not deterred anyone from this and that they cannot direct anyone from thinking that they will be severely punished is not surprising by those who threatened with rusty spoons, and then tried to put on a European suit and European shoes, and they think that's enough to think Europeanly. Sadly, such sentences and attitudes show that not only is that not enough, but that it does not even meet the minimum. If someone thinks that the exit of two million Serbian citizens to raise their vote against electoral theft, each of the two million citizens was robbed in 2000 and went out and said -- I don't want you to rob me, that it's the same right as the right of a few dozen hooligans who will come out to prevent Serbian citizens from consummating their constitutional right, then they really don't even know what it says in their constitution, nor know what European norms are. I think really, before they start teaching others, they might learn some lessons anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45138	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45139	It all sounds nice, but Mrs. Kolundjia, the ones who went out on October 5th and said, "We don't let anyone rob us," they robbed this whole congregation. They took out chairs and tables, pictures from the walls and took them in an unknown direction. If these were hooligans the other day, they were hooligans. It's the only thing you used to come to power. You know very well that victory was not in the first round. That even film made specifically to mark ten years couldn't prove it. It was supposed to be the second round. You said there is no other circle. What kind of robbery is that? You never verified the victory of Vojislav Kostunica in the presidential election. It's never according to the law to publish that victory of his. That's one thing. The second one, which hurts a lot more, is that you're trying to accuse me of being a savage. Mrs. Kolundji, when I defeat you, my ideology will be, whoever attacks us will be severely punished. Whoever attacks Serbia will be severely punished. Mrs. Kolundjia, if you don't come up with a way to see the state, you're free to call yourself those who lead the country. England traveled thousands of miles of ships to Maldives to protect its sheep. She fought Argentina. A member of the EU, you cannot tell her that she is a non-democratic country or that she does not deserve her savagery to be an EU member. Please, and sometimes when I use a hard word, you don't take your word for it. It would be good for you to hold onto a man, for what he does, for what he thinks, for what you expect him to do. I'm trying to find out what this Serbia could catch up with and say -- this way, in this direction, this is how this government leads us. As a man who hasn't read anything, as you say, in life and who doesn't know anything about it, I represent probably half... (President: Two minutes, thank you. I'll finish if I can just finish this sentence. I'm probably representing half of the Serbian citizens you told today that they didn't know anything and they didn't read anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45140	The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45141	It's not my fault that I have to correct you and show that you don't know, it's the Oakland Islands. I want to say that your ideology that threatens the whole world, the Serbian people paid hundreds of thousands of lives, while you safely settled into the safety of the then-to-be apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45142	The right to replica has Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45143	The problem with every well-mannered man is that he doesn't know what to say to a mean woman. So, I don't want to talk to you guys any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45144	People's MP, please coordinate our expressions. The only problem here can be the MPs who break the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you, in accordance with this, that we all coordinate our statements and express our political views. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45145	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a debate that, unfortunately, should have been united and that was supposed to be over eight months ago, but you didn't want it. You then had to bring one Resolution on Srebrenica, to wave around the world with it, and that resolution, which you then brought, would be a breaking news story on all the media worldly. It was breaking news that Serbia condemned the crimes in Srebrenica, that Serbia had recognised the minor genocide they imposed on it. But what happened? Today you have made a resolution and just to satisfy the public opinion and opposition that has repeatedly warned you why you haven't brought up the second resolution you promised and you have written this other one, which is lemonade and which no one in the world will publish because no one is interested. The goal with the first one has been achieved. That's why we wanted to draw attention to both the world's media and all the world's powers that an extremely large crime took place in the former Yugoslavia and that criminals should be punished and that the crime is identical, regardless of who it was committed, whether it was over the Serbs, whether it was over some other peoples. But you're sharing it today. That's where you said it was a crime, and today you bring up a resolution that mentions the victims of NATO bombing. There's a big difference between a victim and a crime. There's a big difference between criminals who start a crime against the civilian population and you're avoiding it because you can't use that word, because you think it's going to put someone who will come back into Serbia and say it to you again - when you're breaking your own Constitution on Kosovo's status, there's no talking, there's no talking about Kosovo's independence, and you say, well, we're going to talk, it's important to see these people from Pristina, we're going to find something to talk about, maybe sports, maybe something. Therefore, all of this today doesn't look like anything because what you want we can't support, New Serbia will never support it. We wanted to support this one resolution that is unique, which means a lot to each other. But we now want to ask you a question – is it a crime and is it a criminal who, in addition to the ban and international conventions, dropped a tape bomb on the city of Nis? Is it the villain who throws at the bathroom of a tape bomb that hasn't been disarmed so far? Is there a criminal in the vicinity of the Kings toward the Jarchuik, where still today there are tape bombs that no one has disarmed? Then we court those who have thrown them to come and give us some money to put them away, so that our children, our citizens, can enter their fields and process the land, or that the citizens of Nis may safely walk through certain areas of their own city or in Kopalnik, so that someone can ski. I was there when we were supposed to open a wire, when people found a tape bomb a few feet away from a group of people standing there. It's not a crime for you. If someone uses poor uranium and throws on cities and bombes certain people innocent in settlements, if a man who shaves in the bathroom gets killed by a NATO bomb, if the child on the gurney gets killed, if the person on the bridge dies, if the citizens who went out on the street to buy something, go to the store, is that a crime against the civilian population? How can you call bombing RTS, when people who came in neatly and did their job and did their work to earn the bread bark to survive are killed, buried in the ruins of that mighty concrete that crashed? Is it a crime or are those victims that someone there, our friend, has done well on purpose to remind us of something? Therefore, I ask you not to embarrass yourself with what you have endured today, and to agree to it and to adopt it together again with that Declaration of Srebrenica that has already been adopted. This all looks like one lardy in general, something that we can't tell who we are, that we can't say that she was bombed by the poor uranium of a confectionery factory. Who was she doing evil to? She sewed jackets, sewed winter coats, made in Chačka. We must not say that the bombed construction company Hidrogradnja, which had this army drive, mechanization, people were doing their job; that the bombed large settlements that were simply targeted by the impoverished uranium and that today in Serbia, dozens of youngsters die from leukemia, from cancer, that our children in primary school had cancer. Would anyone in the world shut up? It is not a sin against the EU, the EU will understand that we want to condemn and call the right name because never in the history of such a thing happens in any country of the world, that no child of five or there is a series of boys in Banja Rica lying down and dying from elementary school. The cities that have been bombed have suffered one destruction that will last for centuries and the diseases that will plague these areas for centuries. The city that I led back then, as Mayor of Chačka, was given a gift of 254 tons of bombs with this impoverished uranium. Factorys have been destroyed, thousands of people have lost their jobs, hundreds of bridges in Serbia, overpasses, stripes. Was it humane for someone to shoot a train full of passengers and kill a people in it or a bridge in Barvarin, which was on a market day, full of shooting, when so many innocent people were killed who simply went to the market to buy something. So it's all a crime. The crime was also in The Flash. The crime was also in Storm. The crime was thousands of places in Kosovo. The crime was when they fired snipers at children who were bathed carefreely in a rural stream. The crime was when snipers were shooting at kids when they were playing football, from primary school. No one can say that today. Why? We are for the EU. But Europe has made mistakes, and NATO has made mistakes, and those who have managed make mistakes. When we spoke to thousands of people who came to Serbia, all as citizens of some countries who committed these crimes condemned this as a crime. Now that you've gone through Nemania and looked at the General Staff, was that a crime? Was it a crime to shoot a hospital? Yeah, I'm sure it was a crime. Thus, it took this joint resolution to show that we are a great nation, a nation that respects and values many peoples, but respects and appreciates yourself and your territory that someone has endangered because of someone. Now that someone is no longer alive, but they're looking for someone else again, so someone else is now guilty. Why can't it be said, when we were punished here in Serbia, when our stadiums were closed, when there was an incident, a torch or something else, "Star", "Partizan", we were punished for it. What do we care if Italy didn't secure and protect the game that was played in Genoa, because it was their problem and they're responsible for something like that. How could they allow such a thing, be it 10 or 20 hooligans, to endanger those guys who are fans, who are real fans, who go and watch and watch games? If possible, I followed closely, a dozen people were active here, and the others were watching. We say now - hooligans. Where are all these carabiniers, to whom was the result of three zeros to win without a game? To them. Why did the judge break up the game when there were thousands of games where the torches were thrown and they weren't broken all over the world? I couldn't wait to make an incident. Is that perhaps in collaboration with our services? Are those people paid to do it there? In addition to those peaceful children who have demonstrated, each meeting has a countersupply. Gentlemen, from the ruling coalition, I remember when we made the rally opposition, you made us countermitting at 50 meters. You were dissatisfied with the rally, you went out to control and gathered the police and everything. Therefore, this protest also comes with another protest. One very important question, I have a lot of friends in the police department, and I'm talking to them. On that gay parade of yours, there were at least our domestics, as they say, gays. They're complaining to the association, saying they didn't come there at all. These were some foreigners brought here, there were 500 police officers who played gays, and they were ashamed that they had to play it in civilians, they had to put their hats on their heads, and they had to walk around, take a picture and show themselves, that you were able to do it and one 200 journalists in a civilian who walked. How is it possible that five or six mares can tie it all up in 15 minutes? I checked with the police, and there's five or six people on one side. How can 1,200 people be divorced in 15 minutes? That's impossible. So, you had a circus party and you wanted to show the world, but, well, some kids woke up and protested about it. Of course, you picked up who you arrived. You took a priest's boyfriend, he was welcomed at St. Mark's Church, and his detention was extended to 30 days, allegedly found in his search and written in the record. So, the boy got his treat, but he was a little cloudy in that crowd and he left. You almost didn't pick up that wedding, if it wasn't for the bride in the wedding dress, there went the bridegroom. And they'd be hooligans. You cool the story a little bit, you talk and talk, this morning on TV "Pink" State Secretary of the Youth Ministry and sports stories about workshops they made about education. You've done a bad job. What kind of workshops are you building? Young people need workshops where they're going to work and get paid, not to get them there by some of Dinkic's uncle's brother...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45146	People's MP, please, after five minutes of exposure to get in touch with the subject. Ten minutes you spoke of the subject, and five minutes precisely I ask that you bring about the subject, and the topic is a condemnation of crimes committed against the members of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45147	This is very important, it's about the subject. How is it possible for you from the ruling coalition to be ordered before an important visit to let Jurisic go free? Is it a shame for Serbia that someone who killed 51 boys, ordered them to shoot themselves and kill themselves, to be released and welcomed as a folk hero in Tuzla and to show all the world media how he excavates, extends his arms, kisses. Did it have to be like that? What is he, is he a criminal, maybe you raised him while he was in prison or was he in some workshop, that he wasn't a lecturer in some workshop? Thus, large amounts of money are being spent and many today are being attacked by something that should not be done by the state. I was president of the Athletic Union of Serbia. The current minister who comes and sits here sometimes said you won't get a dinar while Ilic is president. I immediately folded the tabak and resigned. What happened? That alliance has failed, there are no dinars still. You've brought that hatred between "deli" and "grobar." You have brought this dissension between Serbian youth, because you abuse, take, withdraw, and I remember after October 5th, every politician and your leader gave a statement and said: "dilies" and "grobars" have submitted, along with truckers and police, most of the work. Then they boasted, the minister of justice didn't let out of his mouth, so you competed who had more "grocers" and who "dills". Today it's the hooligans, criminals, some gangs, etc. Who in the world can forbid it, now someone's gonna forbid me to cheer for the club I love? Here, Toma's a gravedigger, and she likes graves, and I like "parties," and we get along fine, there's no problem here. Please, I said figuratively, because we love being called that. We're proud when we go to the game, we're happy when it cheers from both south and west...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45148	National MP, I now warn you, Rule 106, and the obligation of MPs, MPs, you have an obligation to link your presentation, the course of your thoughts and your arguments to the subject of the agenda, following the warning and reminders of the chairman. Currently, he is in the process of condemning crimes against members of the Serb people. Please, if you can't link the game and the friendship you have when playing games with this topic, then don't even mention games. You have three minutes left as president of the parliamentary group and if you want to discuss the agenda, please sign up and exercise your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45149	Mrs. Comic, you have one practice of having sex with MPs as they speak, to interrupt them, to defocus them, but don't make me angry. So I want to continue the story where we left off and remind you to withdraw this resolution as a ruling coalition, to unite it with the one from Srebrenica, to re-adopt it together, because this way we're not going to achieve anything. I wanted to say, as many predecessors have said, you should not have mentioned Slovenians because of Kacin, because Jelko is very unhappy, if he hears you mention Slovenians, fat goes to waste. There's nothing to brag about. But Slovenia did what she did. Remember Split, when civilians jumped the tank and drowned that unfortunate soldier publicly, when the Macedonians did the same thing, when the video was spinning on all the world media? Why don't you repeat it once, to see the people that it was a serious crime against the civilian population, boys who weren't armed, naked, because someone put them in the crowd? And strangle them publicly in front of the cameras. How are the parents of those children today? How are parents when they saw Jurisic was released? So criminals have to be convicted, criminals have to answer. Is it possible there is no crime in Kosovo? I recently experienced and watched what they were doing, provoking you to make an incident, because I was detained in the Kosovo Police Department for hours. They held me for hours and drove in Kosovo to make an incident. But I was just smiling, and it made them very nervous. They left me until dark, so they drove me to Poduje, so in Pristina, I went to Kosovo, and I don't think any of the politicians went to see the police soon. Eulex was against it, and he wouldn't sign the record. But they did it. Why? They told me, their police director himself -- we got a list of your president's cabinets that people can't get in. Here's your phone, turn the cabinet around, if they confirm it, we let you go and we give you a vehicle to drive you anywhere you want. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you under the grains are working very well with Kosovo's leadership. That's why you can't step on them in public like this. But is it a good thing you don't tell the public? You have one resolution for the world, now you have one here for this tortured, tortured people. As you have the double arches for all your statements you make outside and the statements you make here. The special statements you make in this House...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45150	Twenty minutes. The time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45151	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, it seems to me that it has been 10 years since the fall of the former Yugoslavia for Serbia to return to normality as much as possible, so as to raise the question of crimes against Serbian civilians and war prisoners of Serbian nationality. Only in the last 10 years has Serbia been given the right to mourn its victims in the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia. The sufferings of Serbs are either mystified, as it insists only on auctioning the number of victims, and not on respecting the specific victims who have a name and last name, or on the chosen and dosed history being determined by a monopoly over the truth of the past. The right attitude towards its own history is something that has been missing all these years, but not only in Serbia, but in the whole region. It's just something that needs to be done, but we shouldn't have an illusion and we're fooling ourselves that it's gonna happen soon. He always answers to someone to exaggerate his own, and he gives no one else's victims. Or it even happens the other way around, that someone always blames their people more for crimes and justifies others. Competition in political correctness and covering behind or swearing to European values cannot be a recipe for establishing lasting peace and stability in this region. Without law enforcement, there is no peace and co-operation in the region. The judiciary in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot find an excuse for not launching investigations and trial for war crimes committed against Serbs. Many crimes have been committed against Serbs since they were, and today, at the bottom of the list of priorities in the judicial institutions of Croatia and BiH. However, the processing of war accounts and reconciliation processes depend not only on the trial of war criminals. The key roles must be played by politicians and policy makers through education and culture and through the continued improvement of dialogue among peoples who have lived in separate, new countries since the 1990s, and Serbia has a special interest in normalising relations in the region, because outside of Serbia our countrymen live with different degrees of political and other rights. At the same time, refugees and displaced persons live in Serbia from almost all parts of the former Yugoslavia and displaced persons from KIM. The number of refugees and displaced persons put Serbia first in Europe. Serbia is wanted and expected to face the past. I have to say, it's a very different concept that lacks a clear definition and that's why it's hard to say whether or not this is happening. The term itself has one strong ideological connotation, because it is assumed that one who speaks about it knows the truth about the past and that all others should agree with that truth, or face it. The truth has more and more sides. Our knowledge of the past is limited only by the past, because we are not all historians and we cannot reconstruct everything based on a source. There is also the past that was created by the media, education, collective memories, but also the needs of a certain moment. Facing the past is not a commercial bidding and fails if imposed. Just like the apology, and the confrontation should be sincere, to be done without twisting, neglect and all kinds of other tricks, and not because one of us is looking for it, which is what makes us conditional, but because we're ready for it, and not just us, but also all the other peoples of the former Yugoslavia. There are also irrefutable facts: the state of Serbia and this National Assembly have given way to reconciliation by adopting the Srebrenica Declaration. There's no greater respect for your own victims than when you apologize to someone else's. We cannot influence when and whether others will show respect for Serbian victims, but we can invite them to do so. We also cannot expect anyone else to have an understanding, a drink for our victims, if we ourselves do not develop respect and lasting memory. The Serbian people died and died in the 20th century, and in the 21st century they should learn to live. This declaration is a step in that direction, and that's why we're voting for it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45152	Five minutes and 50 seconds were used time by the president of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that the SRS will not vote for the proposed text of the declaration for one single reason: this declaration should represent a political machine in which the conscience of those MPs who voted several months ago for something that did not happen in Srebrenica, therefore, that the Serb people are collectively responsible for the alleged crime of genocide against Muslims in Srebrenica. When you read the text of the declaration, the first thing that falls into our eyes is that those who wrote this proposal really carefully made sure that the declarations don't exude too many national tones, that tomorrow someone wouldn't mind us, when I tell us, of course, of the assembly majority who would vote this, that we were too great nationalists, that we were too aggressive and that we were too wary. So the authors of the proposal for a declaration came to the sense that they were using the syntagma -- Serbian people and citizens of Serbia -- that they were not only writing crimes against the Serb people by accident, but we were fenced by what we said -- yes, crimes against Serbs took place, but crimes also happened against Serbian citizens. Even in the preamble of this declaration, it is said that the National Assembly feels deep regret for the sacrifices suffered by other nations and, imagine, national minorities. Now, when a man reads the text of the proposal for a declaration, and he doesn't really know what happened from 1990 to today, he could hardly add up two and two, and hardly be able to come up with this so-called historical truth about what really happened in the former Yugoslavia's space for the past 20 years. Proposers of this declaration failed to explain to the citizens of Serbia, to explain to the world public how, in fact, everything that happened since 1990 happened? About that in this declaration, not a single word. Why have crimes taken place against Serbs in Croatia, BiH and KIM? Why did crimes happen, which no one disputed, and against the Croats and the Muslims? Because someone from the international community has allowed the opposite of the UN Charter, that an internationally recognised state falls apart, that independence of Slovenia, Croatia and BiH is recognised without a standstill in international law, and that, in a political sense, in the media sense, in financial terms, in terms of direct military assistance, they arm paramilitary formations in Slovenia, Croatia, BiH and KIM. That's how it all started. In his book The Post-Hungarian War of the West against Yugoslavia, the famous Belgrade professor Dr Smilje Avramov, was quoted as "The New York Times" in 1989, watch out for 1989, which says Slobodan Milosevic will be the most responsible for all the crimes that will take place in SFRY territory. So someone projected in advance that not only is Slobodan Milosevic, but that Serbia and the Serb people will be the most responsible for the former Yugoslavia's collapse. Have you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, removed or tried to take the mortgage off the back of the Serbian people with this proposal for a declaration? You're not. There is absolutely no single word about it in this text. Why did Serbs get more than a thousand years in prison in the famous Hague tribunal? Why has 16 Serbs been killed in the same UN tribunal over the past 15 years? Why is life threatened today in the most hopeless way possible by a Serbian citizen, who is not only the president of the SRS, who is a citizen of Serbia, who enjoys, I guess, all rights that all other citizens of Serbia enjoy, and it is Vojislav Seselj? Because there is a mortgage you haven't even tried to take down -- that Serbs are the most responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. When they are most responsible, then it is no problem for this most responsible people to be bombed, to condemn the most responsible people to a beautiful mark of genocide and to the members of the same alleged genocide people in The Hague tribunal to 1,000 years in prison. That there is no history, that there are no declarations, that there are no official records of the victims, enough just to take the UN tribunal's verdicts, so see if one nation is sentenced to 1,000 years in prison, so I guess that people are really the most responsible for what happened in the former Yugoslavia's space. You have missed, gentlemen, in this proposal for a declaration to condemn one crime that represents the introduction to all other crimes in the former Yugoslavia, which is a crime against peace. The United States, Germany, the Vatican, the NATO Pact countries are the most responsible why we are even discussing today a declaration of condemnation against the Serbian people and, as you say, the citizens of Serbia. If those countries hadn't allowed the arming of paramilitary formations in the former Yugoslav republics, that separatists, that terrorists hadn't declared liberators and fighters for democracy, we wouldn't need to talk about this text today. You have worked very hard, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, to avoid the word genocide when it comes to crimes against the Serb people. If a single nation can be marked by the victim of genocide in the 20th century, next to the Russians, Poles and Jews, it is the Serbs. In this text, the proposal for a declaration has absolutely no single word, not a single sentence mentioning that genocide has been committed against the Serb people, but that is why there is genocide in Srebrenica, where it was not there. Where he was in the area of Republika Srpska, in the area of Republika Srpska, or BiH, in KIM, you avoided using the word genocide. Again for one political reason, so that those from the West who read this declaration do not accidentally think that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was too militant in showing Serbian national feelings. You have failed to condemn crimes against the Serb people in the so-called "Serbs". The Independent State of Croatia and you focused exclusively on events from the 1990s. The events of the 1990s wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been a crime against the Serb people, an unremembered crime of genocide against the Serb people in so-called. The Independent State of Croatia. In ideological, political terms, in the moral sense of today's Republic of Croatia is the largest continuation of the dark politics of the Independent State of Croatia in the period from 1941 to 1945. You can say a hundred times a day that for good neighbourly relations and that Croatia is our friend and that it will give us translations of these famous European laws to get into the EU faster, the fact remains, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you who watch Croatian television, who have the opportunity to watch Croatian radio television today in 2010, and that is how it will likely be in the coming years, there will be no day on Croatian radio television in any way, in a political show, in some fun show, in some feature film, in some documentary film, no slap on the Serbian people. If not otherwise, on the famous TV Dnevnik, which is being edited by a former Serb, and now a major Catholic about Papa, Obrad Kosovac, events are being drawn from the naphthaline and so on. Homeland war and then Serbs accuse themselves of being responsible for the crimes that took place in Croatia. Films are being made today in Croatia with the patronage of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which celebrates Ustasha criminals. I don't know if you know that in this democratic and friendly Republic of Croatia today you have streets called by the name of one of the main Ustasha ideologists Dr. Mile Budaka, who declared the official policy of the Independent State of Croatia, that one third of Serbs should be killed, one third should be displaced, and one third should be translated into Catholic religion. Did anyone condemn you? Did anyone say one word of protest when you met with representatives of the current Republic of Croatia? It's not. Do you know that from 1990 until today, including this year 2010, Serbian children have been pleading as Croats in primary schools in Croatia. They appear to be Roman Catholics. They must not mention that they are Serbs and confess Orthodoxy. Has anyone mentioned this as a problem in relations with this and this kind of Republic of Croatia? It's not. That's the problem with those Serbs living there. That's not our problem. Let them give us these famous European laws, and what happens to the Serbian people in Croatia, we don't care. My colleagues from other parliamentary groups have noticed exactly that the declaration is incomplete and because there are no mention of crimes in Slovenia. This crime indeed took place at the end of June 1991, when the territorial defence of Slovenia shot JNA soldiers who had not previously been divided into ammunition fighting. They were supposed to defend the border crossing towards Austria with empty rifles. At the same time, Slovenian territorialists killed them, shot them, shot them in the back of the head. You even have that monster photo where you can see one of the captured JNA soldiers literally turning on the grill. Because of the history, you did not insert it into the text of the declaration, so it will not remain as an official document of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but because of the people who died in Slovenia, because of the family, I want to remind you and the citizens of Serbia, that in June 1991 in Slovenia they were muscly killed: first class captain Anton Mrvak, Lieutenant Dragan Bubalo, supporter Aleksandar Milošević, senior guides Bojance Obinovski and Milko Brnausanović, divorceer Zoran Jesic and soldiers Zoran Stojanović, Ljubo Babić, Branko Bojanić, Dusan Dejanović, Antonija Šumanović, Ratko Lučić, Goran Maletić, Zoran Marković, Stojan Mitić, Vojko Obradov, Dragan Djokić, Boris Ponjević, Spirjan Rodović, Goran Stanković, Obradinović, Obrada Štalinović and Mupadić. As you can see, not only Serbs, but Croats and Muslims and Albanians. What to say for this second part of the proposal for a declaration where you do not condemn NATO bombing, but you express regret over the victims that occurred during NATO bombing. I sign everything Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma said, and we are all aware that the crime happened on the barbaric bridge, and in the Grdelička gorge, and that the beastly death of little Milica Rakic in Batajnica. Now I'm asking Mr. Dragan Markovic, who is not currently in the O.R., why isn't that in the Declaration proposal? What's worth it now to the heroes to remind us of the innocent Serb victims of NATO aggression, when it's not written in the proposal for a declaration that he and all of you will vote for. Why didn't you get three clean ones to put it on paper and say that the NATO Pact was responsible for the crimes that took place in 1999? If you take the full name of the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, you will see that it is responsible for the prosecution of those who have committed crimes in the former Yugoslavia since 1991. I guess that time seal fits the NATO bombing in 1999. Why didn't you say NATO committed a crime? You must not say, because according to the information we have, Hillary Clinton, the first thing she said to Boris Tadic is that there is nothing since Serbia's entry into the EU until it joins NATO. Is that true? Has anyone had a discussion about this? As possible and where in the white world in diplomatic practice talks are held, they say, in four eyes. First with Mr. Boris Tadic, and then with Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Who can witness the conversation in four eyes? Can we know what Mrs. Hillary Clinton's real message is if we ignore that curtous smile for TV cameras and handshakes? Maybe that's why you shouldn't have written that NATO committed a war crime in the SRJ area. How do you understand your intention to condemn and encourage other countries to investigate crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia? Tell me which court in Croatia, which the court in BiH, which the court in the territory of this false state of Kosovo will launch for crimes against the Serb people when we, in downtown Belgrade, release the man responsible for the murder of about a hundred JNA soldiers in Tuzla at the centre of Serbia. Who's serious about us? Who's going to say, these people really believe what they wrote. We are asking other states to commit criminal acts for those who have committed crimes against Serbs, and we are letting those same criminals go free. They're laughing in our faces. Is it the end of Serbia's humiliation? Is it the end of the gun rattling in Serbia? It's not. If you look at the internet edition of "Sandzak Pres", then you can read, among other things, the following text: "You want Serbs like in Bosnia, except that Sandzakli is not stupid, we saw what you did in Bosnia, so we have all the weapons, you shoot, and we will continue; if it comes to what happens, we will defend ourselves, know for sure, there will be those on the side and on the side to come; we who are in the diaspora and who are eager to fight in Sandzak, that once more will get rid of it, when we can't come in a quiet way and go in line; there would be at least 500,000 from the diaspora, because there are more than 5 million of us, half of Kosovo would come to Sandzak, there's no more of us; more of you thinks the Serbs "there's no one in the police 90% and now on the street when your ears are on the streets are covered, and now your ears are covered, they're not going to look down, they'. It is now being published in the Republic of Serbia, in a part of the Republic of Serbia called the Raska area. Has anyone reacted from the official representatives of the Serbian state to texts like this? It's not. I have to remind my colleagues from the SPO, in 1986, Mr. Vuk Draskovic published a great text "What's It Cooking Vjesnik"? The text is shared in Belgrade, by intellectual circles. Now I ask you, why are you SPO silent? What is "Sandzak Press" cooking in Novi Pazar today, and why is the state of Serbia silent? Why do you keep your mouth shut? Why do they, as they say, lag their weapons and prepare to strike at the Serbs and declare the fighters for democracy? Do you know that Sandzak Press is calling on the EU to send observers to Novi Pazar and to prevent what they say is the crimes of the Serbian state against Bosniaks. Is that why any of you reacted? It's not. As the JNA did not respond properly, when Tudjman's formations were armed in Croatia or when the Green Berets in BiH were armed. All in all, I end up Mrs. Komic, an empty text, one faceless text, one text that does not help to determine the true truth about what happened in the area of the former Yugoslavia. One text of a declaration that you will adopt today, which will only further humiliate the already humiliated Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45154	MP Mirko Chikiriz has been reported. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45155	Madam Chairman, we are directly called by the representative of the SRS and I would use the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45156	You have no right to a replica. Thank you. National MP Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45157	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support the declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, in the same way we supported the declaration of condemnation in Srebrenica on 30 March this year. We believe that every crime should be condemned regardless of who committed this crime and who were the victims. We look forward to the fact that some of our proposals at the National Assembly College have been adopted, that even the name of this document, this proposal has been amended and that the title of the declaration is not exclusively about the Serbian people, but also about the citizens of Serbia, members of other peoples. We all know very well that in the wars of the 1990s they were killed, in those wars in which Serbia had never officially participated, that those wars were killed by the national minorities, and the Albanians, and the Bosniaks, and the Croats, and the Bunjeci, and Hungarians and all others, that these people were forced to participate in those wars in which officially the Republic of Serbia never participated, of course, and members of those national minorities died in those wars, and therefore the declaration should bear this name that it bears. We have suggested that the wording of the 5th point be tempered because we believe that in the 21st century of the suit and the suit should not be the means to resolve disputes between states, if there is another way to overcome these disputes and we believe that it is in the interest and members of the Serb national minority in Croatia and members of the Croatian national minority in Serbia to settle disputes between Croatia and Serbia in an extrajudicial way. Of course, we didn't insist on that. This is not a question for the Hungarian national minority in Serbia, but I found it important to note that this is the way we view it. It is very good that the 3rd point of this proposal states that the National Assembly provides full support to all state authorities and institutions to investigate crimes, to collect evidence in accordance with the highest criminal legal standards and to keep a permanent memory of victims, constantly reminding the world's public of the terrible crimes committed against Serbian peoples and citizens of Serbia during the 1990s. We also believe that these principles should apply to all crimes committed before the 1990s. As you know, genocide and other similar crimes do not go out of date. Crimes weren't committed only in the 1990s. History did not begin in the 1990s, and for this reason, as I did in March, when the National Assembly discussed the proposal for a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica, I would like to remind the public of the crimes committed in the 40th century in Vojvodina not only in Vojvodina but in the territory of the entire Yugoslavia. Of course, we don't argue, and that should always be the first sentence, which I said in March, that terrible crimes against the Serb people were committed in 1941 and 1942, I mean first of all the Novosad raid. The whole public of the Republic of Serbia should also know about the crimes committed in 1944 and 1945 against those who were shot just because they belonged to a particular nation, who were accused of co-operation with the occupiers, but their guilt was never proven. The guilt was not proven because neither the court proceedings were conducted nor the verdicts were reached. Someone needs to answer where the half-million Germans from Vojvodina lived in these areas by 1944. How is it possible that, according to the population lists at the time, about half a million Germans lived in Vojvodina, and now there are about four or five thousand of them. Only if we talk about members of the Hungarian national minority, about 20,000 Hungarians were shot in 1944 and 1945. This was also done to the Croatian people and to all other nations living in the territory of Vojvodina, including Serbs who were indicted by the then authorities for co-operation with the occupiers. The biggest victims must have been Germans and Hungarians, if we look at the number of shootings of those years. The Hungarians were found to be collectively guilty. Thousands of citizens of Hungary's national minority were shot in Curug, Frog and Mušorina alone. Those who weren't shot were deported. Their property has been confiscated and those decisions are in effect today in the Republic of Serbia. They were shot without a court ruling or a verdict. Only in the Bački Jarak camp from December 1944 to April 1946, 6,429 people were killed, of them 955 children. These historical facts are something that the public of the Republic of Serbia should know and that is why I am talking about this topic. Of course, we never mentioned this topic in light or with the intention of gaining day-to-day political points, but when it comes to crimes in the National Assembly, then we should also talk about these crimes. In the Hungarian community there is a vivid memory of innocent victims of those times, and almost every village has been shot. All of us members of the Hungarian national minority on the Day of the Dead mark the day of remembrance of them. As I said, innocent victims were in 1941, but the Hungarian state in the post-World War II turned out significant gestures of guiltyness for violence and, as you know, was a film titled "Cold Days" a few decades ago, in which the crimes were committed in the Novo Sad raid. Fifteen main culprits from the Hungarian military and gendarme forces, and in 1943, were sentenced to death sentences, and partly to prison sentences. The then prime minister of Hungary characterised in 1942 the crime of the events, those murders in 1941. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has passed a resolution on non-recognition of collective guilt. The resolution advocates full rehabilitation of all the exiled, innocently accused, innocently injured during and shortly after World War II, without questioning individually claimed responsibility. I am saying all of this because we expect, with full right, that resolution or declaration, to be delivered by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Parliament and the government are silent about these crimes and someone has to raise this issue to the public. In 2009, the presidents of Serbia and Hungary, Boris Tadic and Laslo Solyom, agreed to form a mixed committee of historians. The Academy of Science and Arts of Serbia and Hungary. We think it's the right way. A mixed committee of historians should be formed and these historians should be based solely on science to investigate what happened since 1941-1945 and after doing this work, we believe that a parliamentary resolution on mutual recognition of guilt should also be adopted in the parliament of Serbia and the parliament of Hungary. We believe it is the only right path, but the problem is that regardless of the fact that the Hungarian side has appointed historians almost a year ago, the Serbian side, the Republic of Serbia, did not. If this does not happen in due time, and we think there is no reason not to, then there will be no successful implementation of this work in the near term and then it will not be possible to bring this joint resolution to both the National Assembly of Serbia and the Hungarian Parliament. For this reason, I appeal first of all to the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic, that as soon as possible these historians should be named, that this topic should not be daily-political, as it is not today, and that this chapter of our common history should be closed. We would be very happy if, before doing this very difficult scientific work, the parliament of Serbia, the National Assembly of the RS, the National Assembly delegation took part in the first days of November in Vojvodina in those events where we remember these innocent victims. Such events are held in almost every village of Vojvodina, and in 2010, I think it is the right time for a delegation of the National Assembly to be present at these events. So we expect the soon-to-be formation of this mixed committee of historians in full composition and the soon-to-be resolution on the recognition of guilt in both the Hungarian parliament and the Serbian parliament, and we will vote for this proposal for a declaration today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45158	14 minutes and 15 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45159	That's right, I want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Mr Martinovic of the SRS asked SPO lawmakers in his presentation why you are silent about certain issues from his presentation. I must order that you have violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45160	National MP, the right to replica is not the basis for breach of the Rules of Procedure. The right to the replica is...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45161	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45162	National MP, right to replica, giving a replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. National MP Momo Colaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45163	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group took part in the preparation of the text of the declaration and contributed to the final formation of this text before us today. We also made some suggestions and suggestions. One part of these suggestions and suggestions were accepted. One part isn't. Some proposals were not accepted at the initial stage of drafting the text of the declaration, but by agreement at the College we accepted this text and supported it on Parliament's agenda today. Our definition of support for this text declaration consists of three basic reasons. The first is to condemn all crimes against the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia in the former Yugoslavia and this is unequivocal in the declaration. The second is support for the authorities, all the state authorities of Serbia to continue their struggle to determine the truth, to bring justice to all those who have committed crimes against the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. The third reason that has defined us for this kind of support is to invite all countries in the environment, and especially countries in the areas of the former Yugoslavia, to take over and condemn the crimes committed by individuals on their behalf. That is why our parliamentary group will vote for this declaration in the voting day, and we specifically call on all parliamentary groups and they do so in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45164	Two minutes and 20 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45165	Hurt 107, dignity of the National Assembly of Serbia. I think you are wrong, and I would like to ask that in the Parliament's voting day, a statement on whether you have injured the Rules of Procedure by not giving Mr Martinovic a replica to the MP SP Mirk Chikiriz. I think all MPs think the same way I do about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45166	The National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. Since I am obliged to give an explanation – there is no breach of article 107. The right to replica is the decision of the chairman and cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly will declare your argument in voting day. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Just sign in once.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45167	Article 104(2) - if offensive expressions relate to a parliamentary group, i.e. a parliamentary party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the President of the Parliament Group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. In this case, Mirko Chikiriz, as the political party SPO is mentioned in a negative context, by the SRS. According to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of RS, Mirko Chikiriz, had the right to reply. We cannot give exclusive rights, regardless of whether the president or the chairman decides who will replicate, in which way, direct his debate in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45168	People's MP, please read the entire article 104. I thank you for reading the position that explains in which cases the chairman makes a decision on the right to the replica. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45169	counterparts and colleagues, for the LDP, it is undeniable that the Serb people suffered many casualties in past wars in Yugoslavia in the 20th century. Condemning crimes against your people is something quite natural, normal and logical, almost unnecessary. I can't imagine anyone, anyone in this country, not ready to condemn the crimes committed against their people. It's simple, as if we're voting whether we're going to adopt a declaration that we love our children or that it's Thursday. Also around the Srebrenica Declaration, we said that if that is the maximum majority of the ruling majority, which you represent by representing the majority in Serbia, if this is an alibi for adopting the Srebrenica Resolution, then we have no objection to condemning all crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. There are two problems reporting here. Then you entered into a compromise, unprepared to condemn the Srebrenica genocide, to call it that, because you will agree, a lot of crimes and genocide have been committed in the former Yugoslavia's area. Limited, but still genocide. I'm talking not about my political views, but about the established court facts. Today, I am speaking to you as a promoter, you can see that those who then wanted the Srebrenica resolution to put crimes against the Serb people, did not want to condemn crimes against the Serb people, but rather to prevent the adoption of the Srebrenica Resolution. Today they will not vote, as I understand from the discussion of my opposition colleagues, for this resolution. We'll vote, because it's natural and logical. But you who have proposed this resolution, from our point of view, these rotten compromises essentially do not respect Serbian victims. How can Serbian victims be, and their condemnation or crime against them, an alibi for making another resolution? What are we and where are we? We condemned not genocide in Srebrenica, but crime, condemning crimes against Serbs individually. Were there other crimes against Bosniaks besides Srebrenica? It was in Prijedor and various places. Mass graves with Albanians were discovered five kilometers away. Do we condemn these crimes individually? What happens tomorrow when we normalise relations with Kosovo, so we agree to condemn the crimes committed by members of the Albanian people against Serbs and members of the Serb people against Albanians. I'm talking about those buried and burned in Serbia. Then you'll be leaving again from the so-called. Patriot through a warm rabbit, like today. That is why you should have listened to us and accepted that resolution as adopted by the Council of Europe, that is, the European Parliament, where all crimes are condemned and one of all stands out because it is a genocide. If that's the measure, and we accept it, because if this is the maximum Serbia can at this point through your ruling majority yes, it's okay. We believe that in the future, if we progress faster on the path of European integration, that measure will be different and we will be able to face the crimes that have been committed on our behalf. The moral right to ask others to condemn crimes against Serbs gives us only our ability and the ability to first condemn the crimes committed on our behalf. We would not want you as the ruling majority to continue to follow the people, but we believe that responsible politicians should lead the people. Public opinion is what it is, the responsibility of the ruling majority. That's what statesmen and politicians or politicians are different about. Politicians follow the people, statesmen lead the people, even when they know it's not a majority opinion. Hence, I would like the truth of what President Tadic said in meeting with Mrs Clinton, that the extradition of Ratko Mladic is our internal need, not to do so because of international obligations. Hence, colleagues from the opposition who will not vote for this resolution in one right – that the Srebrenica Resolution was indeed for external use, and that this is for internal use. Until you realize that the crimes committed on behalf of us and their condemnation are our internal need and that it has nothing to do with international factors, so far we will be stopped on the path of something called facing the past, on the path of some reconciliation among the peoples who have lived in one country for 70 years. It's easy to judge crimes. I think it's harder to convict criminals. That's the point. We ask others to condemn criminals who have committed crimes against our people. But first we must have the strength, the courage, the morality and the honor to condemn the crimes committed on our behalf against other peoples. The moral right to call parliaments in an environment to condemn criminals against our people, while two more UN war crimes indictees are in Serbia for the most serious crimes of the last information, it's a little questionable. Victims have their rights and their descendants, which is the right to punish criminals. If we are, believing, and even if we are not, we need to know that criminals have their own human rights. It's not just a right to a fair trial, it's a right to punishment. When a criminal doesn't get a sentence, he faces something far worse than punishment, which is conscience. The reconciliation and condemnation of crime in this way, from our point of view, does not pay respect to victims, innocent victims of the Serb people. This resolution is pretty superficial. I said – if this is the measure possible at this time and if those who then wanted this to be inserted into the Srebrenica Resolution, with the intention of not having a resolution on Srebrenica, we would vote for it, but you could have written it better. You give full support to your state authorities for the processing of the perpetrators. I guess that goes for it, too, that if someone's hiding Mladic, they'll find him or I don't know what that's about. What do we have to support the international community in processing the perpetrators? I think the international community is giving us the support to do so and to hand over Mladic and Karadzic. We provide full support to all state authorities and institutions in taking over the prosecution in accordance with the law. If we don't give them support, what, then they won't work in accordance with the law? It says here that we are asking that in an adequate manner, the perpetrators of crimes against the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia are being punished. This -- Serbian citizens are certainly fine, but -- a crime against the people, there is only one crime against the people, and that is a crime of genocide. So far, only one has been found in Srebrenica. I really don't understand why we are giving full support to a legal team representing the Republic of Serbia in proceedings against the Republic of Croatia before the International Court of Justice? From this, if we don't give them support or they'll fall apart, fight or they won't be able to finish their job. But, come on, these are just formal, how can I say, remarks that show sloppyness. There's one thing that requires an explanation. We express regret and solidarity with the victims of NATO bombing. That's okay, but explain to me - why we don't know what the number of victims is 11 years after NATO bombing? How many victims died in NATO bombing? What are their names? It's amazing that it's still the state secret of some state that's not the previous one, but the previous one. The third state back is that and it's still a state secret. Why is it a state secret? How many people died in NATO bombing? Every victim is listed, listed, precisely where she was killed, at what time, in which place and under what circumstances. Could the discovery of this secret shed some new light, for example, on the circumstances under which the unfortunate militia lost its life, which serves quasipatriots for a policy that is in fact aimed at stopping Serbia from moving towards the EU. Would removing the state's secret of an old country that's gone maybe shed a new light on the RTS bombing? It might have been known that another number of people had died there, much larger than the one that was officially published. It is hypocritical to mention NATO, and 11 years to hide the data from Serbian citizens. It's my objection to the resolution, but basically we have to get through this. I just hope we're not going to bring other resolutions in future time, because why don't we condemn other crimes against the Bosniaks now? Does this resolution include both the Smurfs and the North? It is that it is the citizens of Serbia, the title would include them, but it is not the essence of condemning victims, but punishing criminals, because criminals are tried in courts, whether in The Hague, whether in our country, but responsibility for crimes is not only on criminals, who have their human right to receive the rightful punishment, responsibility for crimes falls and on politics, it is the second part of my exposure. What about politics? It is not the essence of handing over Mladic, it is the essence of handing over Mladic and saying clearly what he is accused of. This criminal policy, which ruled in the 1990s, is the most responsible for crimes, and only then criminals, direct perpetrators. And in The Hague, we have repeated this many times, only the perpetrators are tried. Even the former president is essentially an executive, not a policymaker. The creators of this crime policy are still among us, still powerful and influential, because they are not in power, they are closer to the catheter than to football, but they are still influential. One of the largest politicians among them, who in his youth killed his people for Yugoslavia, and in his age sent young people to die against Yugoslavia, is still there. That until we open the story, about crime politics, this is just gonna be foam. Until we open up this past encounter, the ideology that led to the crime will appear no longer through the military, no longer through the armed formation of state security, will appear through cheerleading groups and the rest of the underworld. How many times have we said that, young people who have never been to Bosnia and Kosovo have something to say. That's the point. So, crimes, victims, criminals and crime politics. Until we open it, there will be such a distraction, that those who are patriots will not condemn crimes against the Serbian people. You're going to keep these rotten compromises from hiding this essence of crime policy, it's going to live, and it's going to cause us the problems it's been making us these past few days. Germany and France have narrowed down to crime over the centuries. How many times they fought each other, but then they moved because they had statesmen, not politicians. After World War II, they made this historic reconciliation that is the backbone of united Europe. Were they, in principle, the greatest and most significant at that time? Yes, they are. When responsibility is measured for crimes and crime politics, then certainly greater responsibility is given to one who is greater and stronger than one who is smaller and weaker. That's why two of the greatest nations in history had to sit down and make this historic deal. That's how we have to take our share of responsibility. Unfortunately, these moves, we condemn Srebrenica, but we will not say that genocide, so now we condemn crimes against Serbs as an alibi. We do not show that we are capable of this great responsibility, and what particularly bothers us, we do not respect our victims. Our victims aren't just because other nations also had criminals and what in other nations the ideology of crime at one point in history prevailed, no. Other nations should condemn their criminals, we should condemn our own. Whoever first condemns his own has the right to challenge others for not doing their job. This wrong policy, this crime policy, that obsession with the people as some kind of organism and neglect of the essence, which is the state, that is what the problem is and which still in this Serbia is almost having a dominant influence. The responsibility for this is, however, falling on the ruling majority at the moment. I don't want to take away your time and lecture you on patriotism, I'm just going to read you a part of a text by Slobodan Vitanovic, who died a few years ago, wrote this before he died, and it's just about that obsession. This is one message to people who think it's more natural to make love to a giraffe than to another human being, and they talk about the white plague. The memory of the terrible defeat of the First Rise, in which one third of the people died, was suppressed and did not serve as a possible reminder. With this, the majority of politicians in the 19th century and the minority of sober people, the people were raised on one hand in the spirit of Kosovo's sacrifice and the lasting validity of Kosovo's vow, and on the other, in the spirit of their heroic supremacy and willingness to die through which those who remain go to victory. It is no accident that the poet Đura Jaksic, at the beginning of the Herzegovic uprising, sent the following message to the people in the suicide and possibly alcoholistic enthusiasm: "Pass, brothers, gasses in the blood, leave villages, burn the flame, throw yourself into the fire of children, shake slavery and shame on yourself. Ginite, brothers, heroes, men, for your world will know that heaven will weep long and bitterly, for it will not be a Serb." The patriotism of the 1990s, which continues to survive and is so tough, is still the ruling nationalism in Serbia, and those who talk about the white plague, they believe this is patriotism. It is your responsibility that, by leading the right national policy and condemning our criminals, we have the right to ask others to do so, and this kind of nationalism belongs to the 19th century. No people in Europe have ever done this, and that's why they're where they are. We have done this still some think it's the greatest patriotism that our own children throw themselves into the fire and that the world will know the truth, and that the white plague is blamed for a minority of ten percent of our fellow citizens who have a different sexual commitment, not this. That's the point. If we don't deal with the essence of the problem, this condemnation foam will in principle not yield a result.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45170	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 18.50 minutes have been used. The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45171	The esteemed chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, is difficult to understand why the ruling majority is now criticised. If someone wants to get proof that we were prepared to condemn the crimes that someone has committed on our behalf, we are proving it not only by adopting the Srebrenica Declaration of Conviction, but above all by the work of the state authorities who are really doing very committed, and we do not have to testify about it, that is what those who judge this work are doing is committed to bringing all the perpetrators of the crime to justice. In that sense, it is hardly possible for us to resent that we do not have that kind of willingness and to create credibility for the country to ask others to condemn crimes against our people, because we are unprepared to condemn the crimes committed by someone on our behalf. The fact is that we have always shown our willingness to condemn crimes, and thus build the credibility of the state and the credibility of the Serbian people and thus, above all, to take responsibility from the entire people. So, all those who add up thousands of years, and say it's a punishment for the Serb people, deceive the Serbian people. These are punishments for individuals who have committed crimes against other people's lives. Only if Serbia shows the ability to bring justice to all those who committed such crimes will it remove responsibility from the Serb people in the best possible way. That's why those who claim it's an accusation against the Serb people are just trying to amnesty from the perpetrator's responsibility. To blame the Serbian people is in fact an attempt by those who have actually committed crimes to be less or not to be guilty. In that sense, they have no support in this ruling majority or in this government that we support here. In that sense, I don't think there's any hypocrisy in what we're doing, and I think maybe more collegiately if someone wants to introduce themselves as trying to help the ruling majority in these efforts, to treat this as an excuse or hypocrisy. It is that the declaration is such, therefore, a form that is meant for the acts brought by the Assembly. The declaration is in some way an expression of will and attitude, and it contains neither judgments nor convictions, nor qualifications, nor the collection of crimes, nor the indication of all the wars where one has suffered. It is a general expression of the will of this parliament to which this parliament refers to victims, members of the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia, and it is an expression of the will of this institution to give full support to those institutions that are competent to find individual guilt to take the blame from both the Serb people and other peoples.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45172	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45173	I used, Mrs. Kolundzija, the word "leaders" not in the context of you and these declarations, but in the context of a policy maker who does not sit in the ruling majority, but the ruling majority does not open, conditionally speaking, that crime policy, and that was my grudge. The way we came to this point, because remember, that compromise, then the colleagues who were left and right of me asked me to get into the Srebrenica Declaration and the crime against the Serbs, to mix it all up and mix it up. We have suggested something similar, but we have suggested that the crime in Srebrenica is not called by its name, because the European Parliament has also adopted a declaration condemning all crimes, genocide in Srebrenica and other crimes. All parliaments in Europe adopted a similar declaration. We were the last parliament in Europe to do this, it's kind of natural for Bosnian to be the last, but it happened there. I'm not accusing you of hypocrisy. I'm just saying that this way, you try a compromise, it's not a genocide, then they say today, we're not going to vote to condemn a crime against the Serb people. It's simply a disrespect for Serbian victims, because it turns out that this declaration of crimes against Serbs is only an alibi to bring one, where it can be an argument something they said, colleagues who won't vote, that it was for external use, and that this is for internal use. We want them to be for the inside, and this is certainly for the inside, and no one normal can support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45174	The word is from the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45175	It's always been hard for me when someone allegedly supports what we do, and then they criticize us for what we do and someone else does. So, if you have followed closely, and I must say that you have not carefully followed the Srebrenica debate, since you have not voted in favour of that declaration, then you could see a clear view of the parliamentary majority. All this stuff you just said, it's absolutely not standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45176	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to the greater question of what justice is, the ancient Greek philosophers have said – justice consists of getting what is rightfully his. Now I ask you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, is it possible for Serbs to have 1,000 years in prison, for Croats to belong to about 150 years in prison and for Albanians 20 years in prison? Is it possible that, on the basis of such judgments, no political conclusion can be drawn about who is actually responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia? Mrs Kolundzija, I don't know if you followed the trial of late President SRJ Slobodan Milosevic, prosecutor of the prosecution Mr. Jeffrey Najs as evidence material against Slobodan Milosevic released a video from a meeting in Gazimestan and a song "Who says that, who lies, Serbia is small". So, as proof that Slobodan Milosevic had a plan to create an ethnically pure large Serbia. Does so many years in prison for Serbs not tell you that for the international community, the Serb people are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, because you will admit it is not the same when you judge prison guards, when you judge ordinary soldiers and when you judge the presidents of states, government presidents, ministers and commissioners. Don't you wonder, Mrs. Kolundzija, how it is possible that only on the side of the Serb people is tried by top state and military officials, and is not tried by Croatian, Muslim or Albanian? How it is possible that no president of Croatia has been charged before The Hague tribunal or any Croatian minister or chief of staff of the Croatian Army, and that can be said of Muslim politicians from BiH, but the UN tribunal's prosecution has not time to accuse people such as Slobodan Milosevic, Milan Milutinovic, Radovan Karadzic etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45178	The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45179	Madam Chairman, I am now addressing and asking you to explain to me on what basis he was entitled to the replica, because you did not let the SPO representative respond to something that was an obvious insult, and now you have allowed him to talk about something, because I neither mentioned him nor insulted anyone, I have not brought up any facts. I'm really asking you to have the same criteria for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45180	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move to a section of the session where MPs will speak in order to apply for a word in a single search on this item of the agenda, I would like to give the following notice to the National Assembly on the basis of Articles 27, Article 87 and Article 90(2). Today, a break will be set at the usual time, so from 14.00 to 15.00 hours. Then, today we will be working after 15.00 hours and I will also inform you of the postponement of the start of the third session of the Second Regular Session, which was scheduled for 15.00 hours, and since 32 MPs have been reported, it is obvious that all time will be used by the parliamentary groups, that the start of the third session will be after the session, or the second session of the Second Regular Session, or the end of the session that is under way. We move to debate in order of the MPs. The first has the word National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45181	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, someone in the previous discussion said that the ruling majority here is calling for what it is not guilty of and what it has not done, and I will criticise you for what you are doing and for what you should have done and not. We are discussing a resolution containing a conviction against members of the Serb people. Generally, there is not much dispute in that resolution. It cannot be a controversial conviction of any crime, so this motion for a resolution meets all these criteria. What, then, is questionable, or what can be disputed? The most controversial are the consequences of serving this resolution. Among other things, it's full of general places that give great space for demagogue traffickers. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, you give indifference space to lamentate whoever you want and how you will in Serbian accidents, which we have mostly cooked for ourselves. That's why we're listening here, among other things, to the nationalist rabble. Of course, speaking of nationalism, I will refer to what my colleague Zoran Ostojić said. The most dangerous are nationalists who have fallen out of the communist robe. The nationalists who were brought out by civil Serbia, they were slightly different, were primarily Democrats, then Europeans, and only then nationalists. The question is, what else is subject to criticism about this resolution and this resolution? The answer to the question of what a serious state does and what a serious state should do. It's not enough just to write a resolution. If we have already accepted the rules of the game imposed by the international community, then we should play by these rules of the game. What has the state done to serve international institutions in a proper and adequate way evidence of crimes against members of the Serb people? She didn't do anything. If you don't believe me, ask Professor Zdravkovic of Nis Medical School, otherwise, one of the best pathologists in this part of Europe. Ask how he insisted that the real evidence be presented in an adequate manner and that no one had heard of it, the state was deaf, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and this current government. I will try to give an answer to some of the authorities of Serbian patriotism, Mark Miljanov and the bishop of Rada. Marko Miljanov was talking about humanity and heroism. It's a charm to defend one another from one another. By condemning the crimes of members of our people against other peoples, we have shown what mankind is. I'm asking everyone else if these resolutions are heroic? Or, when Bishop Rade says, "I'm not afraid of the devil's corner, let it be on the worse list, but I'm afraid of the evil of the domestic one," we're just exampled that domestic evil, by persuasing conscience, is once again replacing it with demagogy. Accordingly, we also have a schizophrenic situation – that those who, by definition, should be extreme Europeans are drowning in the epic mud of quasi-protecting national interests, and the vice-president of the government, who lost the insane war and the Kumanic capitulation lost Kim, hold moral sermons, empty and demagogue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45182	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this declaration is unacceptable for the reasons that it is drawn up, and I think at all that the even more difficult atmosphere that we have in Parliament and also beyond in society, that we are still far from the goal set at point 6 of this declaration, which says that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses the full readiness of the Republic of Serbia to continue the reconciliation process and calls on all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia to make a full contribution to creating and strengthening conditions for a common life based on the equality of nations. The first point is the victims of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia during armed conflicts in the Republic of Croatia, BiH and KIM. First of all, there is no talk of victims in Serbia's territory. In the Presevo municipality, during this period of war, there are 11 killed civilians, there are 44 burned houses, five wounded and more social facilities, schools, and religious facilities, mosques, which were burned down. The facilities were set on fire in areas where the Yugoslav Army was located, and the killings of civilians were directly linked to military or reserve activities, at the time, in the area. No case has been prosecuted so far. First of all, I don't see why we don't talk about crimes in general. Then, if reconciliation with Albanians and others is required here, we adopted a Resolution on Srebrenica, which specifically talked about a tragic event which was also established by the European Parliament and the International Court of Justice. We have made one international commitment quite right, as all other parliaments in the region have done. There are Serbian victims, there are citizens, what Balint was saying, who found themselves a minority in those war vortices, but what about the victims of other peoples? If we're asking other parliaments to do the same thing, I guess that should be reciprocal. I'm coming back again, if you're looking for reconciliation with Albanians, and these days you're talking about this ongoing conflict, someone's saying more than 100 or 100 years, how is it supposed to be this formulation to make that reconciliation happen? It's not superficial, it's absolutely not talk about it. That's why I'm saying we're not ready yet, because the atmosphere is missing. You see, in these three years, how many times has the president of the state, who has been attacked in his own time, defending the interests of the state under pressure and NGOs, including international institutions, made decisions on the amnesty of the arrested or the prisoners in Nis who, as you know, were in the constructed court proceedings in hastily punished and quite high sentences. You know how many personalities are directly and in an absolutely negative context mentioned here, and it was either humane women who were internationally recognised as such, and here, I don't know, I don't know, that I'm not wrong, maybe some group, most of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, in certain contexts, have been more critical of the then president of the state who did this procedure, not quite right, but who was and how necessary for the state, for the reputation of the state at the time. So I'm saying that we don't have the atmosphere to discuss such serious issues, and in particular to provide an atmosphere through one of these resolutions for what the goal is, to make this reconciliation and to move together. This is absolutely necessary, but it takes a lot of effort before that, a lot of guilty confessions, to really get to that ultimate goal. There must be an answer to how these mass graves formed? How did dead people travel hundreds of miles and come all the way to Belgrade? How do we think we can make peace without even talking about it, or even open that topic? There's the point now. In the area of Preshev, no war clashes were at the time. There are only 11 civilians who have been killed and no one has seen them properly, and for the houses that have been burned, not for the wounded, not one procedure to open, and we are in the text throwing out the possibility that even on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the time and how tragic events have taken place. That's why I think it's a good idea, but what's more important, the practice needs to show readiness for these goals. It is impossible to process for years tragic events, prisoners disappear, so they are found in a mass grave, and for years they cannot be found in all international rights a protected prisoner, a prisoner, however we wish, to disappear and to be found dead in one of those mass graves, and we still fail to process our justice system. How much else is there? Then there's a lamentation that for hundreds of thousands, I apologize for the inaccuracy, but for over hundreds of thousands of killed former Yugoslavians that it's been won 1,000 years in prison. I think this is... I can't say I'm expressing what's right here in the middle. We should see how far we've come with the processing. Suppose there was no UN tribunal, where would we be? Even though it works, no matter what there are mistakes, it still shares some justice. What if it only waited from domestic justice systems, where would we go? Actually, where are we? Where are we? In essence, I support it, but the formulations are not adequate and before that we must prove in practice the willingness to achieve this goal, and he is that we must all together contribute to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45184	The People's Messenger Branko Ruzic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45185	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a motion for a declaration on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. A declaration that we, of course, announced after the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration. I believe that this declaration, which will, of course, be supported by the SPS-JS parliamentary group, as well as that of the Srebrenica Declaration, speaks of one civilization step, about preserving the dignity, above all, of the Serb people in this case, but of course of all peoples in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. What we believe is that all those who have the right to critically refer to the content of the declaration, perhaps even to the form itself, should bear in mind that in the preamble we are also calling for a universal UN Declaration on Human Rights, the Civil and Political Rights Pact, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Victims of International and International Armed Conflicts, the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crime of Genocides, notably - genocide, and the Statute of the International Criminal Court. So, all crimes so structured in international law are covered by this declaration and its preamble, and it concerns everything that has happened to members of the Serbian people and, of course, other citizens of our country in that last decade of the 20th century. This declaration, after its adoption, should, of course, serve as one appeal, a moral appeal for all parliaments in the region to reach for one such act, that they too show that they can make that civilization step. That's exactly what my esteemed colleague Halimi has offered me, to hope that, as he represents his views here, so will his views, of course, be brought to our fellow MPs in parliaments throughout the former Yugoslavia. As for criticism that this declaration does not apply to all the crimes committed to the Serbian people, I think it is quite clear that the intensity of the promoter, or 123 MPs, was precisely to time-limit the period to which this declaration relates. In this area, of course, there is no way to dispute the historical fact that terrible crimes have been committed against the Serbian people in that so-called. The independent State of Croatia, but it is simply not the subject of the examination and subject matter of the contents of this declaration. As for what my esteemed colleague Halimi was saying, I think that not only is the form satisfied here, but also the essence, because this is about members of the Serbian people and citizens of the Serbian state. So any crime, if it has occurred to him, has the right to refer to all those who are at that moment, and some of them today, were citizens and citizens of the Serbian state. Of course, what some respect the parliamentary majority, which is that we were much more explicit about the Srebrenica Declaration, but I must repeat that, calling for all international conventions, Geneva, on the UN Universal Declaration, of course we included both content and form and essence and all that was happening to our people in that previous period and that their criticism simply did not stand. So the intensity wasn't to name all the sites that, unfortunately, are largely present in that last decade of the 20th century, but rather to capture and condemn with this approach all those crimes that have undisputedly happened to our people and the citizens of our country. I think the issue of preserving the dignity of our own people is a question for all of us here. This is not, of course, some contest in patriotism, but just one relationship to the crimes that took place. I want to believe that some opposition parties will also make a clear position on the content of this declaration, not politicising this issue. I hope that, as with the Srebrenica Declaration, we will not have any parliamentary groups that will not be left or right, so they will be held back on something that is quite clear. So we're condemning a crime. I think it's universal law, but it's also the obligation for all of us to do something like that, if we're politically responsible, politically, thinking people, who are looking at this situation the right way. What, of course, we all expect together, is that, in addition to parliaments in the region, I hope, they will reach for such an act, that, of course, no one on our side now honors our relationship with the victims among the Serb people and among our citizens. I'm sure something like that won't happen. Reconciliation, of course, is necessary, cooperation in the region, of course, is necessary, but we must not forget dignity. This is a declaration that preserves the dignity of both our people and our country and our citizens. The intention is never to forget those victims and those crimes against our people. We call on all those institutions that have the authority to decide to prosecute and punish the perpetrators, to do so and to be objective, and these others, of course, to express deep respect for the victims who were members of the Serb people. It is our obligation, too, but I think that, above all, the need for a non-current political moment, because these are the kind of declarations we've brought to some earlier period and when there were crimes in both the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, both in Gorazdevec and Podujevo, and not to indicate where all such cases were. I think this kind of declaration, with its content, expresses in a very comprehensive way what it is, perhaps, the intensity of all of us, which is the condemnation of crimes committed against the people of the Serbian people. In the voting day, of course, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45186	Seven minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. This concludes our morning work. We'll continue the session at 15.05. The first speaker to be in the afternoon session is MP Zoran Nikolic, and after that, MP Vlajko Senic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work towards the application for a word in a single review of the National Assembly's proposal for a declaration of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. According to the order of MPs, according to the application for a word, the word has been given by the MP, Mr Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45188	Dear citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, we are today discussing a declaration of condemnation of war crimes against Serbs and Serbian citizens. It's impossible to discuss only this declaration without remembering March when we discussed the Declaration of Conviction at Srebrenica. It is, in the words of the promoters themselves, a joint package in which we as a state will be determined according to all the crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. One of the saddest days in my parliamentary career was this very day of March, when we discussed the Srebrenica victims, because the declaration was dishonest, because the declaration was not sent to other republics in the region, because the declaration was not sent and was not made for the inner opportunity to make peace or, better yet, to find peace in the soul, but was actually due to the return of the debt received by this government and the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic. Those debts and obligations have been accepted on behalf of the citizens of Serbia and I think those watching today's transmission and those who will hear what has been said today remember that March day. You remember very well how hot the phones in this congregation were and what reactions the citizens had that day. In fact, citizens have just been calling on this parliament, all the parliamentary groups, to say to the face that they have been humiliated and that they must cease the humiliation of our country and our people. Unfortunately, this proposal for a declaration is another sad day and a continuation of the humiliation of its own people, the destruction of its dignity and the further repayment of some debts by the ruling coalition and President Boris Tadic, and we do not know on whose behalf and for whom account and to whom it repays any debts. When we adopted the Srebrenica Declaration, we knew then that President Boris Tadic would go to Srebrenica and express his pitetism towards victims that are indisputable in Srebrenica, but when we adopted the Srebrenica Declaration, we did not know that the day after Boris Tadic, instead of going to Bratunac, when the whole Republika Srpska mourns its victims, would insult the entire Republic of Serbia and Serbian victims by not going to Bratunac, but would go to visit Turkey's prime minister in Novi Pazar. The fact that Mr Tadic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, was a guest in Novi Pazar, I appreciate and appreciate the ambience and atmosphere that prevailed there, and this is the attitude of President Tadic towards the victims in Srebrenica, and Serbian victims in Bratunc view the intention and aim of these two declarations. I told you at the time that you're a rude public fraud, all the victims are the same to you. No, they're not. You stepped on the first Declaration when you only talked about the silver victims. You said you'd bring a declaration of Serbian victims and here it is before us. There's no telling what's more embarrassing. Not only are Serb victims second-rate, second-class victims, but they exist in the context of Serb victims, second- and third-row victims. You have the strength to say that crimes have been committed both in KIM and Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have failed Slovenia and said you condemn it, but in point 2 of this declaration, when we talk about the victims of NATO aggression, you have expressed solidarity and regret over these victims. It is a great shame and a great humiliation and for us as citizens, both for us as a state and for us as a people. Serbian citizens should know that this humiliation was organised by the ruling coalition, headed by the DS, which is an idea creator of both the first and second declarations. This is a great shame and a lie inflicted on its own people. I told you last week, and I'll repeat now, it is registered in the political party register, but since July you've been out of the ranks of state and national responsible parties. You've never even shown that you have ambition, but now you've clearly shown that you're neither a state-of-the-art nor a national-responsible party. In his memoirs, Prime Minister Tony Blair said that, with regard to the bombing of Serbia and NATO intervention, his conscience is calm. Now I ask you, fellow MPs, is your conscience still? I hear from some MPs that it is. Mr. Tony Blair can hide in front of the victims, and it's thousands of people, and he can pretend he doesn't know about civilian casualties, that he doesn't know about murdered, butchered children all over Serbia, I won't mention any names, but you know those names and know Serbian citizens. Was Serbia attacked in March 1999? Has NATO aggression been committed? Are there victims of NATO aggression? If there are victims, then there is a crime. Who committed this crime? If you are not able to say that NATO is responsible for the murder of thousands of civilians throughout Serbia, then the crime committed by the then government with which you are now in the coalition, then those who now commit the coalition with you have committed a crime. You're in a coalition with criminals. You can't deny the fact that a crime exists but you have to make it clear and you can't keep quiet about it anymore who committed the crime because the victims exist. If you don't want to say it, I still want you to raise your hands in peace of mind for what's called a declaration of conviction against Serbs. Such a declaration can also be proposed to adopt only parliament and only the government and only the president of Serbia who does not rule Serbia, but some other power centres that ordered you to write such a declaration. They rule both the President and the Government. In one word, Serbian citizens have the right to know that what you are silent about is actually the consequence that you are in one puppet position, about the position in which you have to reprogramme the debts you yourself have accepted on your shoulders, and some of you here believe that we are obliged to apologize to everyone and everyone. So this declaration is the second half, or second act, as is said here, of the original declaration in which you have in the most harshest possible way divided the victims on a religious and national basis. You were able to clearly and loudly condemn the crime in Srebrenica, but you have no guts, because you are not allowed by some on the side, those who are manipulating you, you must not condemn the crime that took place during NATO bombing and that is why this is a sad day and why this is another, unfortunately, disgrace for Serbia in which I can proudly say that the MPs of the DSS and the Democratic Party of Serbia do not participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45189	Nine minutes of Parliament time. The word is proposed by Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45190	In addition to the severe demagogy and nationalism that needs to go beyond any measure and sense of measure and theme, I want to ask only a question – did Kostunica ask so much to Solana? So, did Kostunica set all these conditions for Solana and NATO when he introduced Serbia into the Partnership for Peace? Did he put it as a condition, that they condemn these crimes, that they bring before their courts those who committed these crimes? Is it? Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45191	You don't have the right to a replica, you've expressed one opinion, the promoter put out the other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45192	Your President Boris Tadic may be in daily contact with Solana. President Kostunica never was. The answer to your question, as well as to Mr Javier Solana, is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and is the Declaration on Serbia's military neutrality. This declaration is your attempt to open up your own decision to this parliament at a small door and introduce Serbia into the NATO Pact and it is actually the right name, the right name, what you are doing, so that the Partnership for Peace and NATO are two different things. We've made a decision that we're neutral. As such, we are not a threat to anyone, and you want, by silent crime committed against your own people, to hug and make love to those who have committed this crime. Mr. Blair is a calm conscience. Mrs. Kolundjia, is your conscience still? You're very well aware of the background, among other things, and this declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45193	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45194	I really don't know how anyone can claim something that everyone in Serbia knows is true that it's not true. I don't know how you think you can convince the citizens and what's true when you claim something so persistent that isn't true. That's probably why the citizens don't believe you, so you'll barely cross the censorship. What is a fact and I want to say is that Serbia's interest in being in the Partnership for Peace and the interest of Serbia is to be part of European integration. In that sense, we don't blame Kostunica for what he did, but you seem to have a problem with what he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45195	Mr. Shami, you have no right to a replica on any basis. The word is Mr. Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I think that today is an important item of the agenda and that it does not have much importance based on most of the discussions we have heard so far and I will try completely to turn to what is the topic today and what is on the agenda and to repeat at the very beginning a clear position of our party. You have also heard the head of our parliamentary group about the relationship to the declaration, about the need to bring it, about one historic moment we are in, and where we look at what happened in the past, and we are trying to find the right measure and relationship. Therefore, both because of the past and everything that has happened, but primarily because of the future of citizens of this country and Serbia as a state, of course no one can dispute the fact and the finding that during the 1990s scary crimes against Serbian people, citizens of Serbia, were committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, but unfortunately we cannot escape the impressions that exist in the region throughout the international community that, as Serbs from the conflict, we are coming out of such wars with the epithet of the biggest criminals in the Balkans. Now the question is asked -- how is it possible that a people who never had the epithet of a criminal people, who had a glorious history, who had a glorious past, who was always on the winning side, on the right side, what kind of a set of circumstances, what kind of game of fate is that after a few years, and despite the terrible victims he was exposed to, bring the epithet of a people who are a people of crime? Unfortunately, this is due to the fact that those who committed these crimes on our behalf and today are not ready to go out and respond, but are hiding in the trunks of the bus, hiding, and it is a slap on all Serbian citizens today who are alive, but dear friends, respected fellow MPs, it is a slap primarily for Serbs and Serbian citizens who during these wars were victims of crime. So, those who killed on our behalf and committed crimes, two more of them today are cowardly hiding, and after 10 years, they give a new slap and a new ruse to both the victims of crime and the entire Serbian people. I think today is both an opportunity and a place to invite them from the Serbian Parliament to do a dignified act and to go to court, as some have done, and there prove their innocence, because still, after 10 years, because of these and such people, we wear the epithets we wear. The question arises – why are we as a state and as a people so passed away? I think the answer is relatively simple. Perhaps history will give much better reasons than we can today. The answer is that the only people of the former Yugoslavia were the Serb people who did not have their own strategy, who did not have their own clear national policy. We were the only ones to defend Yugoslavia, while everyone else fled from Yugoslavia. We were the only ones defending JNA, while everyone else was running away from that army and deserting. Time has shown that we have not defended the idea of Yugoslavia, nor the idea of JNA, but that it was only one mask and formula and a false policy that was meant to preserve the privileges of those who lived well in that country and in that army. We did so because others had a clear goal of what they wanted to accomplish and what price they were willing to pay to achieve those goals. The question arises – what is the way out of all this, and how can we as a people and a state move on? Surely it's respect and piety for the victims, but above all, the strength to build one much more modern and different Serbia so that the victims who fell in the future can have their own meaning. Can we continue the conflict and conflict in the region, in Europe? I'm sure we can't. It is certain that the right path that we chose after 2000, with greater or less success, with more or less obstructions, with more or less power of our own to break things that were definitely a black part of our past. It's the only logical path, and that's friendship. If it's not possible friendship, then partnership with those we've been in conflict with. As the largest people in the region, we have an obligation to be a leader in the process. I think that what this country has been doing in the last few years, the willingness to do some things in the last few months, opens up space for Serbia to be a leader again in the region, to be partners and friends with the countries and peoples surrounding us, to build a country that will be developed, which will be modern, and that even if children and grandchildren of people who have lost their lives and who have been victims of terrible crimes give some satisfaction to live today and to live better tomorrow. It's some kind of lesson that we can teach as citizens, as politicians to get out of the past. If again the crimes that happened as a state we will use as energy to continue this same and bad path, to continue to conflict, to continue to be a black hole in the whole region, then what happened in the past, those people who lost their lives and all that will lose any meaning. I must say that we must have the strength to give them and them and they to us, and the NATO Pact, no matter what the DSS colleagues say. I will take this opportunity to thank Vojislav Kostunica for taking a decisive step towards Serbia becoming a member of the Partnership for Peace, which has made a decision to bring Serbia closer to the Partnership for Peace and as much as some are rebelling today, I am sure that in Serbia's history, and as a party we are pushing for Serbia's entry into NATO, will remain the honorable name Vojislav Kostunica, who made the first and important step for Serbia to become a member of the Partnership for Peace and a member of the NATO Pact. Only in this way, by cooperating with the countries with which we have fought, by partnership with our enemies from the past, with the willingness to make one different, more modern Serbia, to be part of the Euro-Atlantic family, can we guarantee that such things will no longer happen in the future. People who were victims really have our respect, our respect, not just ammunition for some kind of political struggle and for our mutual accounting. With such confidence we vote for this resolution, convinced that the 21st century is a time and opportunity to talk about some better things and that all the accidents that we, as a people and states in the 20th century, will be used as energy, as a stimulant, as a lesson that in the 21st century we will make Serbia a modern and organised state that will be the leader of the entire region and that these things will not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45197	Mr. Samardzic, would you like a replica? Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45198	The role of Vojislav Kostunica in the Partnership for Peace and NATO should not be manipulated. That's clear stuff. During his rule, Serbia has entered the Partnership for Peace programme and has entered into negotiations, or the start of SAA negotiations, means the EU. There's no dilemma, things are completely clear and accurate. NATO membership is completely different. It is a member of an organisation, where you have military obligations and where you actually serve a geopolitical strategy that Serbia is not interested in, and moreover, she said in a assembly declaration that it remains military neutral. Why now connects the Partnership for Peace with NATO Membership? It's simple, so that the name Vojislav Kostunica will be blackened. They don't choose funds. This is the simplest fog and throwing public dust into your eyes. That's what we're different about. The DSS, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, is not for NATO membership. It is for the condemnation of NATO and its role during 1999, and it was when Serbia was in the Partnership for Peace. As far as the EU is concerned, it was one strategy that concerned only the EU, not NATO and EI as you are now working. You are now European integration of Euro-Atlantic integration, except you hide this second part of this expression from the people. I think Serbia has a much better chance of joining NATO than the EU. That's what you're working on most. Today, against NATO is 70% of Serbian citizens, and for the EU 51% of Serbian citizens. Take care of that mood of the people. Vojislav Kostunica's policy is in line with that mood of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45199	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the ruling majority were sincere in the intention of condemning crimes committed against Serbs, then surely it would not have been more than half a year ago to adopt that declaration declared by Serbs as genocide. In addition, today you would accept the SRS proposal to discuss and adopt a resolution condemning genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in the clerofastic NDH. It's just amazing that this topic bothered you this morning and that you didn't accept to put it on the agenda. This declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, as you have called it, is merely a mockery of the victims of the Serb people. Tadic's day-to-day regime humiliates Serbia and tramples the dignity of the Serbian people and all other citizens living in Serbia, according to the title of the declaration we are discussing today. The two biggest tragedies that Tadic's regime has produced are those ad hoc changes to the KIM resolution and the adoption of a shameful Srebrenica Declaration, in which you declared the Serb people genocide. Two days ago, you from the regime, with the highest possible honors, but also with serious precautions, hosted in Serbia, in Belgrade by Bill Clinton's wife. Once again, you humiliated your own people and your own country. Tadic's regime officially provided an alibi to the US administration for the bombing of Serbia, killing civilians and kidnapping of KIM. That's why there's no conviction in this declaration for the victims of criminal NATO aggression, and that's also your great shame. Good co-operation with the US administration clearly shows that the puppet government has agreed to accept KIM independence, step by step. Tadic marred the rights of the Serbian people, dismissed the facts and freed the West of any responsibility for the crimes committed, started with the most severe one -- crimes against peace, the destruction of Yugoslavia and aggression against Serbia. He did everything to realize Western propaganda, to justify the symbol of Serbian evil by accepting the Srebrenica Declaration and declaring the Serb people genocide, giving up KIM and willing to face the false state in fact. More than half a year ago, satisfying the wishes of Turkey's president and under the influence of Muslim propaganda, you have trampled the free tradition of the Serb people and Serbs by declaring us a genocide nation. We Serbian radicals have warned you and tried to convince you not to adopt that declaration, because it has no basis in fact nor in international law. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the sense of Article 2. Conventions on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide, genocide is considered to be the murder of members of the group, a serious violation of the physical or mental integrity of members of the group and the intentional submission of the group to living conditions that should lead to its complete or partial destruction, measures aimed at preventing birth within the group, the forced transfer of children from one group to another, if these works are done in the intention of total or partial destruction of one national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such. The crime that took place in Srebrenica and which has not yet been established the truth, in no way can be taken under this definition, and even if all Muslims in Srebrenica were killed, genocide could not be talked about because Srebrenica was just one of the municipalities in BiH. This was very easy to prove and defend before the International Court in The Hague, but unfortunately, the interests of the Serb people represented, well known, Radoslav Stojanovic, who cared about the interest of the Serb people as to last year's snow. It is also a widely known fact in Serbia. He simply accepted the verdict, and was welcomed by the regime in Serbia as a hero who allegedly saved Serbia from a direct charge of genocide in Srebrenica. We warned you at the end of March, when you brought the Srebrenica Declaration, that the Western forces had already made it clear that, based on such a decision, Serbia would actually give up KIM and create conditions for the destruction of Republika Srpska. Unfortunately, we were right. By changing the text of the UN Resolution and accepting negotiations, as you increasingly speak, on technical issues, you have practically recognised the false state of Kosovo. Tadic's story that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo is an empty story. You know well that none of Serbia is asking to do "de jure" but "de facto", which is exactly what Tadic did and what he's still doing. Let us also remember the humiliations that the Serbian people experienced with Tadic's apologies for whatever anyone asked him for, and unfortunately for more than that. When we talked about the Srebrenica Declaration, we asked you who would apologize to the Serbs for the crimes committed against our people and we mentioned, among other things, the Tuzlan column. We got the answer a few days ago. Namely, the reformed judiciary, mentioned today, but worth repeating, has shown its true face. The court council of Sinisha Okic abolished Ilija Jurisic's verdict, which was sentenced to 12 years in prison for war crimes against a column of JNA members in Tuzla on May 15th 1992. It is interesting that the military prosecutor's office has time-consumingly charged Jurisic with 200 victims in the Tuzlan column, and that the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes has changed the indictment by only 50 victims. This regime's prosecution meant nothing to either the victims, nor the fact that after the attack on the Tuzla Turkish column, 130,000 Serbs were expelled. It's the same prosecutor's office that didn't purposely file charges against Ejup Ganic, whom the court in London released for assaulting a JNA column on Voluntary Street in Sarajevo. We recall that both of these cases were intervened by Haris Silajdzic, by the media informing us, by Boris Tadic, who broke the Constitution this time, intervened in what he was not responsible for. Probably because Silajdzic threatened to visit Serbia if Jurisic is not at large. Unfortunately, when he's so-called. The justice reform, we were right. Ilija Jurisic's case shows that the judicial system is in the regime's service. While Silajdzic will not be in Serbia, while Jurisic is in custody, Tadic humbly says Hillary Clinton will seek the gene. The young man and when the UN tribunal stops working. Shame, Mr. Boris Tadic, but fortunately, the desire to arrest a general will not come true. As the media informs us, Tadic has not ended up humiliating Serbia. We see Ivo Josipovic increasingly inviting him to come to Vukovar to apologize for the crime in Ovcara. A similar message was sent to him by Hashim Thaci. He, of course, wants Tadic to apologize for the Ship's victims at KIM. Boris, we have no doubt, will again show that a man is without political morality and responsibility and has no intention of protecting Serbian national interests and safeguarding the dignity of the state. After all, he does not guard the state borders, even though he is bound by the Constitution and the oath he took before the National Assembly. Mrs. Nada Kolundji was in the media yesterday and today she called on the MPs and expected this debate not to be political, which is simply amazing. Is it possible this declaration isn't political? We claim it is. This is actually the fruit of the pro-European and invention policy of Boris Tadic's regime. We must remind the public that Tadic was in Potocari on July 11th this year to present himself, as he said, to the victims, but therefore on Petrovdan, July 12th, he did not go to Bratunac. The cousins' victims, ladies and gentlemen, are Serbian victims, and that is not what Tadic is interested in, and unfortunately, it is obvious that neither you from the ruling majority in parliament. You still show today that you are only his subjects, not representatives of the people who brought you to parliament. That's why this declaration is a farce, hypocrisy, and the castoff of the people. We Serbian radicals will not vote for this, and we call on you to cancel your obedience to the dictator and to realize that Tadic's regime has put vital state and national interests at risk with a devastating pro-Western policy and has thrown Serbia on its knees. Of course, we don't have an illusion, we know that you won't accept our arguments, you're just showing that you're part of a regime that can't sympathize with the victims of its own people. That doesn't surprise us. You, by the way, show that you don't care about the basic human rights of living Serbs. You are obviously willing to participate in the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague because you are not responding to our daily appeals not to allow another Serbian victim in this criminal so-called "Selj". Court. You are not prepared to help, but to demonstrate force and not allow the MPs of the SRS to protest peacefully here by holding a banner and warning the public that they are killing the president in The Hague. Gentlemen of the regime, as the people would say, you can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want. Remember and keep in mind that all of this will someday be history, and that you are still showing today, and in fact today you are confirming that you are, by your actions and by your blind walk on that so-called. on the European path, we have secured ourselves a place in the wasteland of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45201	12 minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45202	Mr. Chairman, I really ask you and I call on Article 107, I think that regardless of the completely overcome political views, of the policy that has suffered all possible defeats, of the policy that has led the country to ruin, hundreds of thousands of people to lose their lives, that such a policy, if another citizen votes for it, has the right to continue to represent itself. But what's inadmissible is to tell lies and be insulted. Most kindly, I ask you to continue every MP of the people who, in his presentation, no matter what disquieted attitudes he has, whatever freak political views of reality he has, to limit and to prevent him from insulting and inventing. Of course history will write them and us down. As someone who has led them to the collapse of a country and to the most terrible loss of its people, and I believe us who will try to build it, and we will remain written down as someone who has tried to build stability, peace, to connect the Serbian people with the countries in the region and also to restore the dignity that they have taken from them in their own politics in the worst possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45203	I thank you, but I haven't seen the part about the insult, and the statement of political views, which are far from real for me, is the right of every MP. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not in violation of article 107. No one was mentioned directly. More political options have the right to be recognized so that I will not give any of them the right to replicate, and if you want Mrs. Kolundji to explain a little bit, to enlighten me very gladly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45204	Excuse me, if you take a stenogram, no one has to enlighten you. So take the stenograms and see what words they spoke to the President of the Republic. So everyone has the right to criticise the policy of the President of the Republic, government policy, parliamentary majority policy, but they have no right to use offensive expressions and I ask you to take a stenogram and see that I am right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45205	Thank you, I'll do it. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Mr. Martinovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I don't understand you at all, Mrs. Kolundji, who insist at the beginning of your presentation which civilised and reasonable... (President: Mr Martinovic, please do not address the MPs. I'm the only one who can do the damage to the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you to speak to me. Thank you. ) So I really don't know why those who speak on behalf of the ruling coalition have the need to completely twist the words of the SRS MPs and I don't know with what right anyone in this National Assembly can accuse the SRS of, as they say, hundreds of thousands of deaths, of the collapse of the state, etc. If I am not mistaken and the two countries have been buried since the DOS took over, it is the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, and now you are preparing to bury the Republic of Serbia, because as I understand you agree to talks with the so-called state of Kosovo even though Hillary Clinton told you that the talks cannot be conducted on status. Then I don't know what you're going to talk about and don't brag about it like you haven't de jured Kosovo, none of you are asking. You admitted it to the fact that you agreed to talk to the fake state of Kosovo about everything, just not status. This means that you do not respect your own constitution, because the status is resolved by the Constitution of Serbia and has been resolved by Resolution 1244. I would like to remind representatives of the ruling coalition that the SRS was in power in the Republic of Serbia for two years from 1998 to 2000. During that period, we bear responsibility for the leadership of the state, not before, but after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45207	No breach of article 107. Rules of Procedure, but I ask the Members of Parliament that because of the seriousness, but also the delicateness of the subject, they do not abuse the right which allows the Rules of Procedure to receive the word by calling for an injury, because I do not think there is a need. No party has been mentioned in any single word. I will not consult the Rules of Procedure, because I have listened very carefully, and for the rest I will consult the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm going to give my word to Mr. Nenado Chank, provided he logs in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45208	The title of the document we are considering today is the National Assembly Declaration on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. I had a prepared discussion, but I decided to give it up, because I was inspired by fellow MPs who were giving some attitudes that I think I should settle with. First, that this is an insufficient patriotic thing and that there is too much nepatriotism, by mentioning Serbian citizens, the answer is clearly given by the RS Constitution, Article 1, which says that the RS is the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it. So it's perfectly logical for this declaration to be addressed as well. However, what we say about the citizens of the RS also draws this declaration out of the strangeness it carries in itself. Bringing a declaration of criminal conviction against Serbian people and citizens of Serbia without it -- it would be like bringing a declaration to Serbian citizens that the country is round and turning around the sun, for a simple reason why I cannot believe that there is anyone in this room and in this country who does not feel for innocent victims, regardless of their nationality. Of course that applies to the citizens of Serbia. A hundred times thesis was mentioned here that in this assembly the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration of Crime, which I will call genocide, something the Serb people were declared a genocide people. First of all, that is not true, because the people cannot be genocide and no people is genocide of the people, because the people do not make political decisions, they make political elites, and thus the people cannot be and cannot be, only because of their belonging to the people or the nation cannot be any individual, discriminated against by basic human rights. So all the time, there's been discussions here that have been collecting political points, not what's really going on here. However, Article 3 has shown something that justifies this declaration, which is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia insists on international institutions that Serbian victims have the same treatment as victims of other peoples, and that the perpetrators of the crime are equally responding. Of course, that's extremely important, because otherwise we would be in a position where we've been pushed into the catastrophic politics of the 1980s, whose individual protagonists are now sitting in opposition, that, as World War II has remained marked by six million dead Jews, are lost from the sight of eight million injured Germans, as victims of the same policy that took tens of millions of lives. That is why it is important to make a clear distinction and away from that time and its protagonists. Someone said fellow MPs should mention NATO's aggression against Serbia, and they can agree on that. Of course it was an aggression, but it should be reminded that it didn't start with NATO aggression, but it started eight years earlier and it wasn't a single act, it was just one in the chain. Then let's see all the other things we need to talk about. Serbian victims must be mentioned, if you want to call it the unfortunates who were expelled 15 years ago from Croatia, I mean the "Storm" and "Blash" operations, but it would be totally strange in that same context not to mention Serbian citizens, say, 40,000 Croatians from Vojvodina who were violently evicted from their houses, who were thrown by SRS activists into the courtyard and thus evicted them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45209	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive, and Mr. Chank to exemplify the dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45210	I'm comparing him right now. So it would be completely unfair for Serbs outside Serbia not to mention all those Serb victims who were killed by shelling, say, Sarajevo, and Serbs in Sarajevo, because they stayed in Sarajevo, were moved to the patriotic criteria of the Serb people's Corps. So, we get the right picture that when it comes to Serbian victims, which are huge and should not be doubted, is manipulated, as we heard from my predecessor, who mentioned that 130,000 Serbs were evicted from Tuzla, and according to the 1991 census, it is official data that Tuzla had 131,000 inhabitants, of which 20,271 were Serbian. Therefore, it is clear that it is manipulation and that there is no interest in being responsible and with a clear political message talking about the victims in order to prevent them from happening again, because it is the only real reason why such a declaration could be made. Is the Serb killer in Sarajevo Ratko Mladic, a man who needs this assembly to be a safe house, as some MPs in this house advocate? Serbian Radical Party? That's right. Are Slavko Curuvija or Ivan Stambolic Serbs or are they just traitors who are okay for patriotic reasons to kill? Do they count in this declaration, and I hope that, all those victims of war in Kosovo, not only Serbian but Albanian, because they are all citizens of Serbia, because Kosovo is in Serbia and I absolutely do not agree that there is any other interpretation, because it is my constitutional obligation, imposed by the Constitution, for which you have made your own decision and voted for it in 2006? I remind you that in the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it. So all these people are Serbian citizens, and all Serbs who were not on the side of the patriotic forces are Serbs outside Serbia. It's always forgotten. That is why, I think it is high time to break up with politics, to adopt such a strange document as this declaration, but let it be a step towards facing truth and lustration, which Serbia must come to if it wants to move forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45211	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45212	Mr. Novakovic, I've come to pick up an article. 104th and 107th, and regardless of what I, as someone who belongs to a party who advocates democratic principles...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45213	As has been said a long time ago, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but the right to the replica can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so thank you. The word is Mr. Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know why representatives of the ruling coalition always need to bring the SRS into the context of bomb and banishment, hundreds of thousands of corpses, etc. First of all, I don't understand you, Mr. Novakovic, why you allow such a tone in the National Assembly at all. I ask Mr Chanka - does he have any court rulings, any evidence that any member of the SRS has dropped a bomb in the courtyard and that he has therefore left the territory of the Republic of Serbia? If we respect the principle of rule of law, if we advocate that Serbia should be a legal state, with which right do you have the opportunity to charge someone on a case-by-case basis? As for the Constitution, which you are referring to in a rather cynical and ironic way, the constitution was not only voted by the SRS, your coalition partners from the DS voted, and I don't know what the problem is. Also, Mr. Canak, you haven't carefully read the proposal for a declaration you signed. Crimes committed against Serbian peoples and citizens of Serbia outside the Republic of Serbia, Croatia, BiH, or Kosovo and Metohija are condemned here. This isn't about Vojvodina. This isn't about Belgrade. What the SRS wanted to stress, of course, is that all Serbian citizens are equal and of course that Serbia is the state and the Serbian people and all the other citizens living in it, but this is about 99.9% of the victims in Croatia, BiH and KIM being submitted by members of the Serb people, and that you needed the clause "civilities of Serbia" to justify to foreign mentors that you are not very large nationalists. (President: Two minutes. ) Otherwise, if not, I ask you – when you brought the Srebrenica Resolution, why didn't you write in that resolution that crimes were committed against the Muslim population and other citizens of Srebrenica...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45215	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45216	I really don't understand why you're now wondering why you're putting the SRS in the context of bombing people in the yard, etc. Maybe because that's what it was, maybe because the SRS did it through its activists. The Serbian Radical Party also read lists in the image of Seselj Dr Vojislav, the indelicate who had to move out violently, and that was done, you know, by Srem, you know all 27 villages that you moved out, I don't need to remind you. One thing I don't understand is why you have now admitted that Kosovo, by you, is outside Serbia? Are you disowning Kosovo, is that the subject you just took to outwit yourself with the parliamentary majority, and in fact, you have now given yourself up? You're the one who's not in Serbia, you're the one who put it that way. We, who advocate to be in Serbia, are still the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45217	I would ask that we go back on the subject and not do what Mr. Canak did. Mr. Sarovic is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45218	Mr. Novakovic, you have injured a member of 103 who says that a MP who wants to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure has the right to explain what these injuries consist of and that he has two minutes to do so. I just listed two members I thought were injured, went to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45219	I repeat, the first member who is your basis for reporting cannot be the basis for breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I thank you even this time. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45220	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think I've made myself perfectly clear. Mr. Canak, tell me the name and last name of who dropped the bombs from the SRS and who was moving the Croats out of the 27 villages? If you could give me a name and a last name, I would be deeply grateful. As far as I'm concerned, and that's what I said in the field with your party colleague, distinguished Miss Jerkov, 1991 and 1992, Mr. Canak, Serbs who were expelled from Tudjman's Croatia, exchanged their apartments and houses with Croats living in Srem, and in this real estate exchange, the Serbian people passed, in 99% of cases, worse and worse than members of the Croatian people. You know how much houses in Hrtkovci, Kukujevci, Golubinci, Slankamen and houses in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik, etc. People left homes worth several hundred thousand German marks and exchanged houses worth perhaps several thousand German marks in Srem. It wasn't any kind of banishment. After all, you had an example in the course of proceedings against Vojislav Seselj, the fake artist Eve Tabu, who claimed that the Srema exiled people who died long before 1990 and by some crazy lists these people were led away by Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj has proved that this is not the case. If you already advocate co-operation with The Hague tribunal, then respect the results of the proceedings against Vojislav Seselj in the same tribunal. When did I say that KiM is not an integral part of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45221	Mr. Martinovic, replica time's up. This concludes this circle of replicas. I don't think continuing leads to anything, and after all, they'd be smarter, so I give the word to Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this item of the agenda reminds me of that story when the mother comes home, and the son says, you know, Mom, no one broke the window, and the window is broken. We, unfortunately, broke the window, or spilled milk about six months ago when we brought a unilateral declaration of condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica. To be clear, it was necessary to condemn a serious crime in Srebrenica, not at that point, but the opportunity was then missed, and by all accounts, we will miss it today, by a strong, morally clean declaration, to condemn all crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, regardless of which nationality or religion the victims belong and, of course, which names and last names those who committed the crimes bear. I'll tell you what's left uncovered, a lot of things. Should we not condemn the crimes that the Muslims have committed against the Croats, for example? Or which Croats were treating the Serbs? Or the Croats towards the Muslims? Can we, at the very least, ask that question, not condemn the crimes which, independently of Srebrenica, Serbs did to others? Was there such a crime? Yes, it is. According to the current convictions of our courts, there have been such crimes. Where are we judging? Nowhere. Instead, we were offered this text which would be good if we could just say it's one sugar water, but unfortunately, the text has much more serious deficiencies. We've already pointed to some of them as DSS. First of all, there are no mention of crimes committed in Slovenia against JNA soldiers, most of whom were Serbs, but not all were Serbs. No one mentions these crimes, I don't suppose they'd compromise Mr. Kacin's character and act or I don't know who. Furthermore, when it comes to crimes committed by NATO bombing in Serbia, we have, among other things, the following formulation – we express as the Parliament of regret and solidarity with the victims of NATO bombing. You know, it's like being out there in the white world, in some mine, some unfortunate miners get hurt, and then, normally, diplomatically, we express our regrets and condolences to the families of the victims. That's about it. However, perhaps you can see it differently. Maybe my colleagues didn't understand, that operation was called "Merciful Angel." So the "merciful angel" came down from the sky, so that girl got hurt on her nose, so the passengers in the Gredile ravine or the unfortunate employees in RTS, who, however, no one thought of getting out of there. If I didn't pick up the rest, it'd take a while. I have to repeat, and that is, the meaning of the amendment that the DSS has filed, the only thing this assembly has to do and has to do is bring in one strong declaration that will decidedly condemn all crimes committed in wars in the former Yugoslavia, including, of course, NATO bombing, to show that we are ready to reconcile, first of all, with ourselves. In the end, I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia came out, and I advise her that if she already wants to represent a large parliamentary group, sometimes she can read a few things from the facts. Then she would certainly learn that the NATO Pact and the Partnership for Peace are not the same. The NATO Pact is a military alliance, and the Partnership for Peace, above all, only a name tells it what it serves, and members of that partnership for peace are, among other things, not just countries that are not members of the NATO Pact, but that will never be. After all, Serbia was not bombed by the Partnership for Peace, it bombed the NATO Pact. It certainly was in this sugar water that it had to be written that a crime was committed and that we condemn that crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45223	Six minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The word is from Ambassador Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us, and also in front of you, dear citizens, a piece of paper that is supposed to lead to the condemnation of crimes committed against the Serbian people, the people who suffered the most during the 1990s, and during World War I and the Second, but this piece of paper will remain a dead letter, because the government, the regime of Boris Tadic, positing its Western mentors, does not sincerely wish to condemn crimes against the Serbian people. This shameful proposal contains no concrete example of any particular crime, nor does it list any particular criminal. Even termology is so mild that it's pointless to read this. Here's the relationship between the regime and the DS to crimes against Serbs. Let me remind you something, since some others here have reminded you. In 1991, a 12-year-old Serbian girl, Aleksandra Zec, was brutally killed in the centre of Zagreb. Her mother and her father were previously killed. No one in the DS is talking about it. The following year, a 12-year-old Serbian boy Slobodan Stojanovic, near Zvornik, was killed in BiH on the banks of Drina. He was found with six teeth pierced upper jaws and a cut abdomen in the shape of a cross. It was determined exactly which of the Muslims committed the crime, but no one was responsible for it until today. He was killed by a child who escaped from the Muslim village on June 4, 1992, who was ethnically cleansed from the Serbs, returning to his house, which remained tied to the chain. That's what he told the last Serb man to talk to 12-year-old Slobodan Stojanovic. Milica Rakic, a three-year-old Serbian girl killed by a NATO pact in the NATO pact's aggression, not in the bombing of the NATO Pact, in aggression. Anyone who doesn't know what aggression is, can read the 1974 UN General Assembly Declaration, open books on Nuremberg, and see what the crime of aggression is. This government, Boris Tadic, I don't know who, Dragan Djilas, is talking about you wanting to condemn crimes against Serbian children, Serbs, Serbian citizens. Here's a monument to the children killed in NATO aggression, in the middle of Belgrade, in Tasmajdan Park. For years, he's been defiled, and no one wants to fix him. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to fix it, the city government does not want to fix it. It's your attitude towards crimes committed against Serbs. It's your relationship. Why don't you rebuild that monument to children killed in NATO aggression? You just can't defend it with anything. What are you promoting? What rights do you promote? July 21st at the Media Centre in Belgrade, Dutch activist Frank van Dalen, who advocates participating in parades of pride around the world of children for 12 to 16 years, promoted a parade held in Belgrade on October 10th 2010. Frank van Dalen is a certified pedophile. On the site of your Quiri, the address of Van Dahlen was attached to the Belgrade authorities, and you let a pedophile promote these manifestations here, and you didn't react. How can you not be ashamed? It's a crime, one of the most serious crimes. You're promoting pedophile? (President: Please connect it to the agenda point. ( ) What is the continued relationship between Boris Tadic's regime and the crimes against Serbs or even genocide? Here, look at this, you're just looking for profit. The Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia 02-830/10 of 17 June 2010, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly not to accept the motion for a resolution submitted by the SRS, as regards the condemnation of genocide committed against the Armenian people, which has also been recognised by many Western states. What do you say in the explanation? "The adoption of a resolution on the condemnation of genocide committed by the Armenians would adversely affect, among other things, bilateral political and economic relations with the Republic of Turkey, which is an important factor in the region and our joint foreign-political partner. Relations between Serbia and Turkey have been visibly improved over the past year. An intensive political dialogue has been renewed at the highest level and significant political and economic activities are ahead in the coming period, which is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. From the point of view of the Republic of Serbia, the adoption of the resolution would be counterproductive." You guys, when you talk about genocide, you talk about profit. How is that possible? Do you know what a genocide is, that most serious crime under international law? As it's possible that you're giving these reasons, whether it's genocide or not genocide, it has nothing to do with economic interest. To move on specifically to your proposal for a declaration of conviction committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. The first position: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strongly condemns crimes". What crimes? You, in some places, when it comes to other peoples, cite specific crimes and types of these crimes, and you don't do that here. Genocide, otherwise, you don't mention anything, mention the Convention on the Penalty and Prevention of the Crime of Genocide, but you don't really mention genocide anywhere. It says: "you are giving full support to your state authorities and international community bodies in the procession of perpetrators". So who are you processing, people? Ilija Jurisic, you have freed a Croatian war criminal. You freed him of all responsibility, and the man staged an attack on the Tuzlan column, where 18-year-old children were killed unarmed. What are you processing? Do you process the "yellow house" where the authorities of the kidnapped and kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were removed with the help of US military surgeons, with the help of Bondsteel and sold to rich people in the West? Is that what you're processing? Are you processing the Crematorium in Klecka, where Serbian children are burned? No, you're not interested in that. Furthermore, what you say is attitude two: "you express regret and solidarity with the victims of NATO bombing". What kind of bombing? You can't call a crime a real name. It's a crime of aggression, a widespread crime against peace. You have a UN document, therefore, the 1974 Declaration of Aggression of the United Nations General Assembly. We are a member of the UN as a state, like Serbia. We have not only the right to rely on proper documents, but also the obligation, and you're a coward, you can't call a crime a real name. About this NATO aggression, what did the pilot who took part in NATO aggression say? Spanish pilot Adolfo Luis Martin de la Hos, piloted the American fighter F18 superhornet for a Spanish newspaper "Articula 20". Captain Adolfo Luis de la Hoss, the first NATO officer to talk about the use of chemical, biological and radioactive weapons against Serbia, says: "A coded order was given once by the US military to drop tape bombs on Pristina and Nis. Our colonel refused, and a few days later, an order arrived for his transfer. All I'm saying right now is nothing compared to what I'm about to say when the moment comes." He was replaced by Americans. "The only commanders are Americans and no one else. All the missions we were flying, all planned by senior U.S. military officials. "This is your NATO pact led by Dragan Sutanovac. The man thinks, take him to Templar, the Pentagon, so he can do whatever he wants. He says, "We never ran anything, and our missions were limited to crossing the border of Macedonia, Bosnia and Slovenia." Next thing you know, Solana is just a toy that the Americans set up to do what they think of, and that's what a man does. Pay attention to what the Spanish pilot who took part in the aggression on SRJ says: "We don't mean anything there, not a word of terrible accidents, and as far as the wrong choice of targets and humiliation is concerned, we knew perfectly that we were entering a conflict against which most Spanish citizens are, and most importantly, for us. There are no journalists who know what's going on in Yugoslavia. They're destroying the country. They bomb it with new weapons, toxic nerve gas, cluster bombs, uranium bombs, sterilising chemical materials, crops poisoning poisons, and the public is still silent about it," warns Captain Martin de la Hos, a Spanish newspaper "Articulo" published after NATO's aggression pact on SRJ. It's a crime. What are you guys still talking about? You are calling in the new position of your declaration to all international actors to engage in certain activities and condemn crimes against the Serb people. Is that what you mean by the tribunal in The Hague? He wrote in the indictment against Slobodan Milosevic that in 1389 Serbs were creating a large Serbia in Kosovo. Who killed seven Serbs. That ends history, Serbian history! Do you mean the tribunal in The Hague, where Vojislav Seselj is poisoned, is given cardio-toxic drugs? Your representatives from the Health Committee leave the Health Committee and talk about some demands, they argued there was a request for a doctor's appointment in 2009. It's never been a request. The doctor there with VMA Dr. Mijailovic went under the order of the Search Council, Judge Antonetti, by election of the Tribunal Secretariat in The Hague and that October 2009 the relationship between the patient and the doctor, between him and Vojislav Seselj, was established, and your VMA chief, when DS, Miodrag Jevtic banned the assistance of Dr. Vojislav Seselj when he needed it and when we contacted him on 20 October this year. That's what you do. You're saying that it's necessary to collect evidence in accordance with the highest criminal law standards and that's what you find here. Well, people, you've handed over the entire state archives to The Hague originals, i.e. The tribunal in The Hague, the BIA archives, the former State Security Resor, counterintelligence services and other security services. They asked for your originals and you sent it to them. Now the originals are there, evidence of crimes committed against Serbs. You sent the originals to The Hague. Now the Americans are the owners of it. Think carefully about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45225	13 minutes of MP time was used. Mr. Djordje Milicevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45226	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against representatives of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. The significance of the declaration we are talking about today is in this first place, I would say, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the most representative body of Serbian citizens condemns all crimes committed against the Serbian people. During the Yugoslav crisis, as has been said among other things during today's debate, these crimes against members, representatives of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, were mainly on the entire territory of the former SFRY and therefore the importance of the declaration we are talking about today is extremely large and therefore our responsibility, all of us who are participating in today's debate, is extremely large. It is true that it is a sensitive issue and it is true that we would do well to achieve as broad a consensus as possible on all relevant political factors on this issue, i.e. to achieve the broad consensus of all relevant political actors on the political condemnation of all the crimes committed in the space of the former SFRY and of course that the declaration we are talking about today gets the broad support of the Republic of Parliament. There is no dilemma that Serbia has the same relationship with all crimes, and we made it very clear a few months ago, when we spoke and adopted the Srebrenica Declaration and we show it very clearly today when we talk about the proposed declaration. The declaration we're talking about today, I'd say, is a complimentary document with a declaration that we adopted months ago. The Declaration on Srebrenica and the declaration we are talking about today, I would say, a political continent and can be very clearly defined as one shift, as one progress towards strengthening international tolerance, trust and, of course, peace and stability in the region, which is of paramount importance. What is the purpose of the declaration we're talking about today? The purpose of this declaration is actually to condemn crimes, to express respect for Serbian victims and of course to expect the people who lived in the area of the former SFRY to, by adopting the same or similar declarations in their parliaments, condemn all crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, because only this way can a realistic basis be created for restoring trust, which is of exceptional importance both from moral, political, national and state. This is the only way, and this is the only direction that leads to a renewed trust, has its essence and has its purpose. Serbia still demonstrates its determination today. We showed that determination a few months ago, when we discussed and adopted the Srebrenica Declaration within this Republic Parliament. If such determination is shown by representatives of other peoples, then we definitely have a new phase, a new stage, that is, we have chosen one path that is both easier and faster, and that leads to a renewed trust. True, during today’s debate, it was said that the truth about the Yugoslav crisis was important. It is also true that it is neither black nor white, it is true that many open questions waiting for real and historical answers, but it is true, and it is that a real relationship, and real truth can be a real indication of future relationships, what was actually happening in the space of the former SFRY. What is also important and what I especially want to point out is that Serbia must certainly be firm in the definition or policy that problems and future problems are resolved peacefully, although it is sometimes complicated, difficult and long. Such an approach allows us to solve problems and, on the other hand, what is extremely important, avoid human sacrifices. At the very end, what exactly is the future of those who lived in the space of the former SFRY? Certainly peace, reconciliation, mutual respect, work on common interests, integration and integration. Only by such a relationship can we successfully respond to the temptations of modern times. The main goal of both Serbia and the environment is certainly peace and stability in the region. Serbia is making its contribution today, as it did several months ago. Serbia wants to lead a policy of peace. Serbia wants good neighbourly relations, stability and security in the region. If others contribute, if others behave in the next period of time in the way Serbia behaves today, as Serbia has acted in the past time period, we will certainly have a new stage and a new phase in these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45227	It's been used for five minutes and 40 seconds. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45228	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian people are a perilous people, especially in the 20th century, and this indisputable fact is unfortunately being demoted by the fact that it is being put into context and into the function of justifying a completely bad and destructive policy led by the current government. It is a policy that Europe has no alternative. It is precisely in the function of this policy, a policy that increasingly contributes to Serbia becoming a weak state, that citizens live worse and that we no longer know what our vital national interests are, that another contribution to this is such a terriblely bad proposal for a declaration that degrades the minimum of national dignity of the Serbian people. We have pointed out several times what are the basic problems in this proposal for a declaration, but not only is it in one shameful way dividing Serbian victims by the degree of importance for this authority, but what in a series of solutions in this proposal the declaration sees the outlines of how and how Serbia behaves after 9 September, when that resolution in the UN Assembly practically fell to its knees. These policy periods "The EU has no alternative" can be divided in the period until 9 September and after 9 September. By September 9th, there was a period of withdrawal, indulgence, a policy that was conducted so that there was no alternative on the altar – the EU did not have an alternative, it seemed beneath the grain, especially when it came to KIM, the release of EULEX, the making of an agreement on the border crossing, the withdrawal of Serbian institutions, the fact state, from Kosovo, and this declaration about Srebrenica. After 9 September, when Serbia completely capitulates, we are in a position to discuss such a single document. This policy, which has put everything into one cube, and it is known in advance that nothing has happened since then, even yesterday the representatives of individual American agencies said it is not a topic until 2035, we are coming to see Serbia giving up its most important national interests for the sake of an imaginary thing such as EU membership. There is no topic or membership here, it is a question of getting some kind of candidacy as an excuse for a policy that was already doomed in early 2008. What is a particular question, which I would like to ask the proposing representative, is a series of things in these members of the declaration, which requires an explanation. Article 1 speaks of condemnation of crimes in Croatia, BiH and KIM. Parliaments of these countries are called on to condemn these crimes. Serbia calls on Kosovo's parliament to condemn crimes against KIM through such a formulation. The first question is for the proposing representative – when did he commit these crimes after the proposing? Did the NATO Pact commit crimes on KIM? Is this a request in the so-called. Kosovo's parliament, false states to condemn some crimes, because this is where it's said -- these crimes, meaning crimes in Croatia, BiH and KIM are meant to condemn parliaments? No one is naive that the state of Croatia will condemn crimes in Kosovo. This is where the separatist parliament is called to give its court and to condemn some crimes. I would like to hear the opinion of the proposing representatives – will this be the subject of debate and talks between representatives of the Serbian state with those people who have unilaterally seceded from the state of Serbia? It's a special story, it's been talked about more than once here, why Article 2 did not say that what NATO did in 1999 was a crime. According to all international conventions, and especially according to the UN Charter, under which a crime against peace was committed, what took place in 1999 was a crime and no processes, which this government intends, and processes related to the slow accession of Serbia to the NATO Pact, because in the end we do not have to listen to representatives of the government, just to refer to a statement by the Secretary-General in Sofia. He said Serbia will move towards NATO at the pace and in the way Serbian authorities demand. There's a secret deal for that. There is a change of mood in Serbia. We already see that there is a hasty campaign in the public of Serbia for NATO membership, and it will obviously seem everything to get the Serbian public into that military organisation. That's why it wasn't decided said it was a war crime that happened in 1999. To what degree does this cynicism go, by calling for international law, I will remind you of today's statement. Today, discussions are under way in Brussels on a new NATO pact strategy. On the issues of the Secretary-General – whether the hacky incursion into a NATO state is an infringement pact of Article 5, which implies that all NATO pact countries have been attacked and that the reason for the intervention is, he said, however, that Article 5 can't be interpreted so widely. They blinked in 1999, when no state was threatened, a NATO pact member, not to mind Article 5 and bomb RS. It should have been decided here, regardless of how Serbia relations with the alliance and relations with the alliance. It's a crime. For the sake of day-to-day political interests, one undisputed fact cannot be kept silent. We are talking about the need to support state institutions against RS before the International Court of Justice. We have listened to representatives of the government's proposals to make a settlement, to see Serbia give up being a genocide in Jasenovac and that it will therefore withdraw its resolution if Croatia withdraws its lawsuit against Serbia for a alleged genocide that was not in 1991-1992. Does Serbia still remain on that fact to trade what happened in Jasenovac, an indisputable crime, genocide, the extermination of the Serb people, and would you withdraw? Is this kind of support for our civil servants and officials in front of the International Court of Justice in the dispute with Croatia? That shouldn't be an obstacle, as we say here, to reconciliation. The truth can't be an obstacle to reconciliation. In addition, gentlemen, the Serbian people are a serious and state-of-the-art people. The word reconciliation in the Balkans is only used by the Serbian people. Everyone else is talking about national interests. We'll talk, we'll cooperate on the basis of our national interests. What is in the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people, if we do so in talks with neighbouring countries, it will be for us reconciliation and stability. Only the national interest of Serbia and the Serbian people can be above any separate agreement, especially for the sake of a day-to-day policy that can thus seriously endanger the interests of the Serb people. In this sense, the DSS proposed a resolution that clearly and unequivocally expressed its view of everything that happened in the 1990s, but also clearly condemns the crimes of the NATO Pact in 1999 and states that they were crimes, regardless of what relations they had with that organisation and how they built these relations in the future. It's a fact and it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45229	Time, Mr. Palace. This time is scheduled for the DSS hearing to be used. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45230	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may not be a bad thing to read the text, because there is obviously a intention to interpret what is written as it is not written anywhere. There is no doubt in this declaration that the National Assembly of RS is calling for parliaments of other countries. Serbia does not recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence, does not recognise it as a state and this certainly cannot refer to the KIM parliament. I think it is inadmissible to bring confusion among the citizens of Serbia and to claim something that is not written anywhere and that cannot be interpreted widely in the way it has been tried here. What is also inadmissible is that Serbia is ready to, regardless of the historical facts about what Jasenovac was, change something later and withdraw what is a historical fact. So that's simply not true, and I don't think it's fair, even if they had one vote among these citizens, that you're misleading them with things that aren't true. What's very interesting is amnesia, a political amnesia, which seems to be where we should all give in and forget, that those who have been looking for a NATO conviction here now have been in power since 2000. I urge you to show us an act that you have condemned as a government of NATO crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45231	The word is Mr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45232	Mrs. Kolundjia, if you were going to make this resolution clear, you wouldn't have put point one in one sentence and eight rows. Look at that sentence, please. Nobody understands that alive. If you had put a point behind KiM, at the end of the third row, and opened a new sentence at the beginning of the fourth row, it might have been clearer. This is how this sentence allows for the interpretation of fellow Palalic. Why did you make a point one with eight lines, a sentence that doesn't have a subject or a contribution, and there's a lot of words? Because you didn't want to be clear. Your language here is creepy and no wonder it causes this kind of interpretation. In fact, you deliberately wanted to be more meaningful so that you could say every remark – it's not like this. Please, don't interfere with these clear remarks about your rusty politics. Don't go back in time. We now have clear policies, separate, different. We are against Euro-Atlantic integration because Europe changed its position on KIM at the end of 2007. Times change because situations change. Europe has changed its position, and against NATO we have always been, and we have proved that declaration of military neutrality, which was adopted in late 2006. If that wasn't clear, as the state's position towards that military organization, then I really don't know what's clear. But it has nothing to do with these remarks about the ambiguity of this text, which is intended and therefore subject to such criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45233	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45234	Perhaps you, as part of your parliamentary club, should bring politics into line, and then we should understand what your party's policy is. So if you say different things, then don't accuse us that we understand that within that policy, which you call one policy, there are more policies. So if, in this position, it is unequivocally said that it calls on parliaments of other countries, then however widely you try to interpret it, you can't interpret it the way someone tries, so it refers unequivocally to the parliaments of other countries, whether it's a point or not before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45235	Interpretations were made on one side and on the other. On viewers or those who deal with the future, it's to interpret who's right. Thank you. This part of the replica ends, and I give the word to Mr. Aleksandr Jugovic, so Mrs. Gordani Pop Lazic. Here you go, Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45236	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, on behalf of the SPO, I support the adoption of a declaration of crimes committed against Serb peoples and citizens of Serbia during armed conflicts in the Republic of Croatia, BiH, in the KIM 1990s, but I regret the failure to condemn the Serbs committed by the Ustasha state of Croatia during World War II – Jasenovac, Jadovno, Korićka Jama, Kapavica and other sites, where our fathers and grandfathers are located, had to be part of this declaration. When Vuk Draskovic first spoke of it in "The Knife" and "Praying" in the early 1980s, he was attacked by Serbian communists and declared a traitor. (President: Mr. Jugovic, please return to the topic. () What changed? These same victims aren't recognized by many today as victims. They became secret and fog. Why? Because the ban on every story of the Ustasha genocide over Serbs has been built into the foundations of the communist Yugoslavia, whose chiefs and chiefs, in the last decade of the 20th century, will carve out bloody war and crimes. When they differed over the authorities and functions of Tito's staff, Tudjman, Milosevic and Izetbegovic, they pushed the peoples, families and people to the slaughterhouse. Crimes against civilians and secret tombs are the work of the same ideology that has been flourishing for decades and hides the truth about the Ustasha genocide, and which, when World War II began to go into history, hundreds of thousands of its ideological opponents, mostly civilians, secretly liquidated and hidden their bodies in secret tombs from Slovenia to Serbia. These crimes of red executioners have particularly affected opponents of communism in Serbia, which is not an accident. The SPO demands that the Serbian Parliament, in line with the recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopt a special declaration on the condemnation of the crime of the totalitarian, communist regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45237	The word is Mrs. Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45238	Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and peoples of Serbia, we are one of the few peoples who has been condemned to repeat history. Why? Today, on today 1941, 6,000 Serbs were shot in the King. I don't remember any of the state officials going there to bow down to the shadows of those victims, or mention them here today. Crimes don't get old. Today we could, I don't know if it's by any chance that we're discussing this subject today, at least a minute of silence to pay our respects to these victims. So many Serbia and the Serbian people have short memories and care for their victims. War is a great temptation, especially civil war, for every nation. In war, as you know, the best go. The longer the war lasts, the more of those in the cemetery. In World War I, what was best for Serbia died. What's left of it died in World War II. Again, in the civil war of the 1990s, the best sons of the Serbian people are killed. What's important to say about that is that it's not easy to recover biologically and we haven't recovered biologically yet. We're gonna need a lot of time for that. Softness, perhaps, these declarations confirm it. The spiritual strength and spiritual will of the Serbian people is not at what level we would like it to be, which is precisely because our history is so difficult and we have had so many victims. In the Middle Ages, we were like an Englishman, and today we're four or five times smaller than the English. The great powers, thinking and deciding our fate, don't care at all about the aspirations, the aspirations of our people, our previous victims, our fears of the future, the appetites of the criminal forces that accuse us and constantly attack us. If someone says that NATO bombing has stopped, we claim that it is not and that it continues in its own unique way in The Hague tribunal, because 16 more Serbs have died there. As the SRS warns, the killing of Vojislav Seselj is under way. In no sentence do we see from this declaration that you offered to condemn NATO. That is what many MPs have made as a remark. Is it possible that we as a state and as a people don't have the courage to say -- the crime of all crimes, if we talk about these crimes of the 1990s, is, above all, a NATO pact, Western forces, the Vatican, the European servants of the United States who have caused all these conflicts. We are not talking about individual crimes, but because when the Srebrenica Declaration was brought, which was necessary to bring such a resolution to the UN, then the crime had a name and last name and then in that declaration was expressed both condolences and an apology to the victims' families for not doing everything to prevent this tragedy. Today, in this declaration, at this point 2, we don't really know who we're expressing our condolences to. Do those who have fallen as victims of NATO bombings in Vietnam, Cambodia, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries or those who are members of the Serb people and who have died as such. Maybe we should think logically, if we can even express our condolences to ourselves. Should we at this first point ask the parliaments of the surrounding countries who participated in the civil war to express their condolences to us for the sacrifices we have suffered? You see, that's a contradiction, which is inconsistencies, how well you've been able to formulate point one in the Srebrenica Crime Conviction Declaration, and here you don't know what you're doing or what you want. I cannot mention that today it is well known that NATO experts actively participated in preparing, designing and conducting the operation of the Croatian Army "Blash" and "Storm", which led to genocide and ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Croatia. NATO's air force, with artillery support for fast facts, has handed over 10,000 tonnes of the most deadly explosive material to Republika Srpska. Over 400 fighter planes flew from Italy's airport and two US aircraft carriers in the Adriatic. On August 30th, at 2.05 p.m., which is only two days after Markal, who were not accidentally on the Great Lady, and NATO aviation began again in the field with the force for quick facts of mass coups on Serbia's Sarajevo and Serbia's Pala, Sokolac, Rogatica, Gorazda, Tsajnica, Serbs and parts of Serbia's Herzegovina. Who ever did research or at least mentioned publicly, I mean state officials, 6,000 killed Serbs in Sarajevo? Does anyone know the exact number of Serbs died in Sarajevo? Does this individual crime deserve a special conviction? No, that's the crime we're hiding. The figure is not of interest to the Serbian parliament, the Serbian government, the Serbian president. The greatest criminal for us is the NATO Pact, and you don't mention it anywhere here and nobody's going to answer these questions that we're asking about. Why was that left out of this declaration? Why won't a proposing official tell us why there isn't a NATO pact as the criminal who caused the greatest casualties in the 1990s wars? What about the victims who died from the bombing of the poor uranium? Remember those Italian soldiers? Today, there is an epidemic in both Republika Srpska and Serbia. Are we gonna keep that quiet? We shouldn't shut up. It's a continuation of that bombing. The war didn't stop. NATO aggression hasn't stopped. We and how we suffer the consequences of all this and generations behind us who come will likely have consequences for all this. The case against the persons who made the decision and made the bombing in the SFRY area has never come to the agenda. Since I still have very little time, since my colleagues should speak in the remaining time that we have left, in point 3 of this declaration, where you say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provides full support to all state authorities and institutions in whose jurisdiction it is, so they say, keeping a permanent memory of the victims, they constantly remind the world public of the terrible crimes committed against the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia during the 1990s. I ask-- did you remind Solana, did you remind Hillary Clinton, Blair, of any of them who ever came to you here, to whom you spread the red carpet? Why are you writing something you can't fill out? We've never heard of you warning them. In point 4. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calls on all international organisations and institutions involved in investigating and processing crimes committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia to investigate criminals in an adequate manner against Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. You mean the Hague tribunal. How long will you give legitimacy to The Hague tribunal, if you know that he, as an auxiliary body of the Security Council, had to be established by the UN General Assembly, and that's not a fact? He is illegal, but you can't say that. The only man who really defends and who has put his life on the line and delivered it to the souls, ready to prove by personal example that he defends what was most sacred to our grandfathers, which is the homeland, is Vojislav Seselj and his every word spoken to The Hague tribunal has much, much more weight than any word you have entered into this declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45239	An 11-50-minute parliamentary group has been used. I ask the MPs of the National Assembly, members of the SRS parliamentary group, to remove the transparency and not to violate the Assembly's reputation and do not violate Rule 107, paragraph 1, which implies it. I ask you to remove the transparency, not to force me to apply Article 109 of Article 1 and to express the measures for the violation of the Assembly's reputation and for conduct contrary to parliamentary practice, which implies the right of the parliamentary group to express protest, attitude and does not imply the right of any MP to violate the Rules of Procedure. Next time, I'm warning you to remove the transparency. Do you want me to call Security to remove the transparency? Please, authorised representative, MP Aleksandra Martinovic, to remove the remaining three transparencys or to ask your fellow Members to do so. I ask the Security Service to enter and remove three transparencys that members of the SRS parliamentary group do not consider their own and such are items that should be removed from the Assembly Hall. Please do not throw away, MP Boris Alexic, because it is also prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly session serves to show mutual respect and respect for the reputation of this institution that we all build. I am informing the MPs that we will wait a few minutes for the Security Service to remove the banners that SRS MPs consider not to belong to them and that they cannot remove them, so as not to violate the reputation of the National Assembly and interfere with the normal course of the session of the National Assembly. I ask the MP Gordan Pop Lazic not to throw it away because it is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's Messengers are getting a question – what are we waiting for? We wait for the order to be taken care of during the session of the Assembly, by removing banners that violate the reputation of the Assembly. In a matter of seconds, the service, or courier, will do so, since the MPs of the SRS feel that the items that violate the reputation of the Assembly are not theirs and do not want to be removed, which is their right, such as their obligation to comply with all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask MP Nemanja Sarovic not to interfere with the official face of the National Assembly in the performance of his duties. I thank the National Assembly for the safe conduct of my duties. We're continuing our work. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45240	Ladies and gentlemen, even though I've been a little distracted by this break, as incomprehensible as all of us, I'm going to try to get back on the subject. First of all, I have to point out one fact that so far no one has pointed out, which, in my opinion, is embarrassing, which is that there is no Boris Tadic in this room today. Boris Tadic has already shown on several occasions how interested he is in Serbian victims, how much he feels about the suffering of the Serb people, or how indifferent he is to them. Another indication of such a situation is his failure to attend today's session. I really need to ask myself what it is today that separated him from the National Assembly and what is more important for the president of the Republic of Serbia, what job is more important than this declaration condemning crimes committed against the Serbian people? Boris Tadic, however, showed his attitude towards the crime against Serbs by never wanting to go to Bratunac and bow down to Serb victims' shadows, although on several occasions he went to Srebrenica and bowed down to the victims of some other peoples. I am really surprised that Boris Tadic does not feel the victims of the Serb people. They were particularly scary in the area around Bratunc, a team before Boris Tadic and himself were a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina until May 2004. As important as the declaration we are discussing today best shows the media attention you have given her and unlike that declaration of Srebrenica, the gay parade, which you talked about almost a year a day and which it had to come to at all costs, it is obvious that the regime media, and today in Serbia all the media are regulatory, this topic was not sufficiently attractive. The proposed declaration is limited, both territorially and timely, to the 1990s, which is not acceptable to us, because we believe that they had to be condemned and genocide committed in the NDH during World War II, but it is unacceptable that it is territorially restricted to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and Metohija, which means that you do not express regret and condemn the victims of crime in Slovenia, and we will remind us that these terrible crimes were the initial chapels and test balloons for further bloody conflicts and for the violent secession of Croatia, which then led to civil war. I don't know why you're avoiding condemning crime and genocide in NDH, if the Republic of Serbia has filed a lawsuit against Croatia for the genocide, as well as for genocide committed during 1995 through the criminal actions "Storm" and "Blash" and why do you hesitate so much to publicly pronounce the word genocide and to call what is an uncontested genocide a real name? The question is whether you, which is something that could be concluded from this resolution, are planning to withdraw that lawsuit against Croatia, because in the 5th declaration, you say, among other things, that the Republic of Serbia advocates finding a lasting solution that would lead to truth and reconciliation. Is this the withdrawal of charges announced by Boris Tadic, because the question is asked – who has the right to forgive genocide, on whose behalf Boris Tadic and who gave him the mandate to negotiate with Ivo Josipovic, to trade Serbian victims, to trade Jasenovci, to trade Jadovna, to trade camps for children who existed only in NDH, and this is about Jastrebarska, Sisak and other camps? In NDH, 74,762 children under the age of 14 died in four years, and in the children's camp Jastrebarsko only in a month and a half, 768 children died, according to the testimony of the undertakers Franjo Ilovar, who later declared that there were 768 of them, and he kept the exact records because he was rewarded for the funeral per piece, as he said. However, this is not the topic of talks between Ivo Josipovic and Boris Tadic, because for Boris Tadic and Josipovic they were more important Croatian Lipicans than thousands of killed Serbs and hundreds of thousands expelled from Republika Srpska's territory. What's even more surprising is that you're hiding the text of that lawsuit. I'm a few months ago, there's complete documentation, trying to get the text of the opposition of the Republic of Serbia. I was first informed by Slavica Djukic Dejanovic that she does not have such a lawsuit and I asked for it again, because I believe it is necessary to carry out the parliamentary duty. Then I was informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the text of that lawsuit and the evidence attached is considered classified. How is it possible that any state authority considers something secret required by MPs, I really don't know? Boris Tadic announces a recent departure to Vukovar. Today, we should have heard from him on whose behalf and on whom he would apologize there, and he was due to report today because when he adopted the Srebrenica Declaration, he claimed that we must be the first to apologize for our crimes, and that he would immediately follow up in the environment of apologies by other countries and representatives of other peoples. Of course, they pleaded immediately after the adoption of our Declaration, saying they had no idea that they were apologizing to us, but they said they were expecting new apologies from us, who considered us to be real villains and criminals. What does not contain this declaration, which it had to contain, is, above all, our statement and our vision of how there were bloody war conflicts and you had to make it clear that there was a civil war because of the violent secession carried out by Slovenia and Croatia. It is incomprehensible that you do not have the courage to condemn NATO crimes and NATO bombing, but to say that the National Assembly of the RS expresses regret and solidarity with victims of NATO bombing and belief that peace and stability rest in respect of international law. What international law? International law under which they bombed Serbia? International law under which Kosovo and Metohija are taken from Serbia today? It is incomprehensible that the crime in Srebrenica, therefore it was not genocide, strongly condemns the National Assembly of RS, and that you are expressing some regret for NATO bombing, as if it were an accident. You continue to provide full support to the authorities of Serbia whose responsibility is to undertake prosecution in accordance with the law. Does this mean that you support the relaunch of the proceedings against those responsible for the NATO bombing and killing thousands of Serbian citizens? Does this mean that you will re-emerge against war criminals Solana, Shirak, Clinton and others and condemn them in accordance with the law? Two days ago, with the highest honors, you welcomed Hillary Clinton, the wife of Bill Clinton, a war criminal, the man who ordered NATO attacks on Serbia, in which thousands of our fellow citizens died. The question arises – is it a crime to welcome a criminal with a red carpet and an honorary guard? A good example of the regime's relationship with Serbian victims and political trafficking in connection with the arrest and the request for the extradition of Ejup Ganic. He was arrested on March 1st. The prosecution requested extradition, provided documentation, and then as thunder from the blue sky came a statement by Boris Tadic, who said that no matter where he will be tried for the massacre of soldiers in Dobrovoljaka Street. I will quote, on 16 March, he said, "For Serbia at all, it is not a central issue for Ganic to be extradited, but for the trial to take place. Serbia has no objection to him being extradited to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Serbia wants to believe that the judiciary will be able to secure a fair trial." After 18 years of committing a crime during which Ganic has not been heard as a witness, let alone as a suspect, only an idiot can believe in impartiality and a fair opportunity tried before the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What came into the eyes after the release, which is an explanation and an indication of the objectivity of the court in London, that he believed the witnesses of the defence of Ejup Ganic, who claimed "that the attack on the column of JNA was an act of self-defense, because drunk soldiers fired on all sides", although there are videos showing that it was a classic ambush and that it was a massacre of soldiers whose bodies stood on the street for days later. Ganic was released, the regime in Belgrade acted as a surprise, but after a few days on August 6th, you gave up the appeal for the decision. The prosecutor's office said, "After extensive analysis, it was concluded that the lodging of the complaint and the carrying out of large costs would be illogical." How much is it according to your democratic standards the full cost of law enforcement of the one responsible for the death of more than 50 people? Also interesting, it is the fact that Judge Timothy Vorkman announced that a requirement for the extradition of Ganic is a policy, which is behind all attempts by Belgrade to get support for the Srebrenica assembly declaration from Sarajevo to speed up Serbia's path to the EU. According to the verdict, I also received the verdict, Serbia offered two things, which is that it is verbally guaranteed that it will agree that the Serbian extradition request will not be certified or that it does not oppose Ejup Ganic's request for release on bail, provided Silajdzic refrains from criticising the Serbian parliament's resolution on Srebrenica and that Silajdzic attends the Istanbul summit with President Tadic. These are official documents and it would be good to hear the official explanation of who has the right and who gave him the mandate to trade Serbian victims? Since the time I have at my disposal is coming to an end, I must tell you and tell the citizens of Serbia that better life and national dignity are not values that are being excluded, that you are trying to propagate the EU to convince us to give up this national dignity for a better life, the Serbian people are now in one of the most difficult struggles to preserve their country, to preserve Serbia's integrity. The only way to win this battle is to remain consistent with the ideology of Serbian nationalism, the ideology of anti-globalism and the ideology of Russian philosophy. You offer us the pro-Western ideology of the vassal relationship, for ten years you've been fulfilling the orders of the West, ten years you've humiliated Serbia, ten years you've been surprised that our international rating is at that miserable level where it is. I think it is finally time for Serbian citizens to open their eyes and even more strongly oppose the dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic and DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45241	13.35 minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45242	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not hard to prove that someone is false because there are traces that testify to what is true. "This is the memory of the room of our accident and our death. Not only us, but the world must know of the suffering of our people. We have the right to this truth above all else because of those who have lost their lives in this war. Eternal glory to all the dead and to my eternal respect," Boris Tadic wrote on January 7th 2006 in a reference to books in Kravica, marking the anniversary of the Serb death. "That is why so far I have spoken and I will speak and future about crimes and criminals as a central line of distinction between anti-civilisation and the civilization of a nation and I will not agree for one moment to any compromise or silent solution when this topic is on the agenda. That is why I will always call on politicians from other nations and politicians from Serbia not to compromise when it comes to war crimes and the guilty of these crimes." If elemental humanity is not the foundation of our policies, then politics loses all meaning. That's why your policy has lost all meaning and the citizens have recognized it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45243	National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45244	My exposure is misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45245	People's MP, you didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45246	Then by article 107. So the dignity of the National Assembly was injured. Mrs. Kolundjia, you know very well when the central marking of the Serb death is in that part of Serbian territory. So it's not about January 7th, it's not about October 14th, it's about July 12th. Boris Tadic knew very well when he was centrally marking the loss of Muslims in Srebrenica and the environment and he went twice to this central marking, he went in 2005 and went in 2010. Every year, he is invited by the families of the victims of those who died there. The Republika Srpska government invites him every year. Every year, the Serbian people expect it from him. It was his duty, as was his duty to be here today. It passed on January 7th along the way, so he signed into the book so that you would have something to quote. That's not enough, Mrs. Kolundjia. He is the president of the Republic of Serbia, the queen of the Serbian people. The mothers of those unfortunate Serbian children there expect him every year. He had time to go to Srebrenica with Erdogan, but had no time to bow down to Serbian victims. You know, Mrs. Kolundjia, very well what I'm talking about and don't try to twist the thesis the way you do. The regime in Serbia has also made it impossible for Serbian citizens to leave this year to mark the death of Serbs in Bratunc. I personally was stopped by the police at the border, pulled out of the column and held for 15 minutes. They asked me to call a parliamentary ID to let me go. I didn't want to because I didn't do anything wrong. My sin was what I said when they asked where I was going – I'm going to Bratuntz. It was my sin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45247	It's been two minutes. There is no violation of Article 107, and I warn you not to abuse the right of Article 103, whose first position was given the right to speak to MPs about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. This is the last warning, after which I will apply Article 103 in all its provisions concerning MPs who have the right to abuse the most precious right, which is the right to free word. If you insist on applying Article 109 of the final position, and on giving criminal measures, I am at your disposal. The promotions of simplicity and promotion of ignorance will not be because it is the collapse of the reputation of the National Assembly. Please bear in mind that you are willing to show that only some MPs have all the rights and that only some MPs can abuse the right to free word. I can't, there can't be any MPs. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, the representative of the Proposer, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45248	It's really sad and tragic that on a subject like this in such a miserable way someone is trying to get a voice. If the time for such vote-gathering has passed, it is best shown by Serbian citizens in the elections. That's why I don't want to compromise any more with the lies you're making. You say – he was never, and then when you have evidence that he was going there, then you say – yes, but he wasn't when we liked him, etc. It's completely pointless. So, what's the fact, is that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, in the same way that he values every human life, valued that life, unlike you, not trying to make a political career.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45249	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 103(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. So, Mrs. Komic, I really do not understand whether there are limits in this double application of the Rules of Procedure. To remind you, today, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, who at the beginning of the debate appealed to all the MPs to be civilised, tolerant, not to use this debate for daily-political purposes, told the SRS MPs that they had been dismembered, that they were poor, that we were responsible for the death of hundreds of thousands of people, for exile. Mr. Nenad Canak accused us, without any evidence, of dropping bombs at people's houses and of banishing them from Vojvodina. If those words had come from one of my colleagues from the SRS Parliament Club, we'd probably have earned some discipline. Here, when it comes to hitting the SRS like a bag of sand, without any sanctions. So if we're going to have a civilized debate, let's run it. If we're going to be offended, does that mean that only the lady who's the proposing's representative has the right to insult us, and we have no right to say anything? Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, based on the arguments, expressed the views of the SRS parliamentary group on evidence. He didn't tell Mrs. Kolundji that she was poor, or that she was dislocated, or that she had changed 10 games since 1990, and that maybe she was one of those who were responsible for what was happening to us in the '90s. No, the man presented the facts, presented the evidence in the most polite, in the most cultural, in the most civilized way possible. So, we don't insult anyone, worship the shadows of all who have suffered in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, of course, the victims of the Serb people are the most painful, but today we haven't used this debate at any time to insult any fellow member of any parliamentary group who has proposed this proposal... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45251	It's been two minutes. On the contrary, I am taking care of the full application of the Rules of Procedure and fully aware that this will cause dissatisfaction, we have all witnessed today, MPs of all parliamentary groups. We all like to say that we love order and application of the Rules of Procedure, but we don't like to be applied to ourselves. The reason I think it should apply to all of us is why I strictly apply the rules of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to such an obvious abuse of the right to free word after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I am obliged to say that it is inadmissible, forbidden and that it will be sanctioned. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, the representative of the Proposer, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45252	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have not spoken to any MP, nor have I referred any epithet to any MP, I am talking about politics, I am talking about discussion, I am not talking about individuals. So I have never offended anyone, unlike those MPs who think that in the absence of arguments for what they claim they have the right to insult and by any names they call anyone who comes to mind, especially the representatives of the highest state institutions. If you've forgotten, please take your stenograms and see what your colleagues have been saying. If it turns out I've misheard insults, I'm prepared to say to everyone that I've misheard. But you'll see, if you carefully read the stenograms, that a lot of insults are directed to individuals who, above all, are not here and cannot be defended, who have nothing to do with this agenda point. This declaration was submitted by a group of 123 MPs. If you have any controversy about the text of that declaration, then we're the ones you're dealing with, not those who aren't here and don't insult those who aren't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45253	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. You want to take down the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45254	Dear Chairman, may I ask how long our group has time, how much time is left? (President: The SPS parliamentary group has five minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go. ) The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the essence of the declaration that is under discussion today, that it condemns crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure it's undeniable. That is why I would like to say that such a declaration, such a single formulation, deserves numerous innocent victims, members of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but deserves this parliament as well. As a result, I cannot agree with the discussions that were excessively heard in the afternoon debate, that this substance is not sufficient, that it is incomplete, that it is unnecessary and that there is no such kind of atmosphere to bring such a declaration. On the contrary, here today's debate in parliament shows a truly necessary atmosphere in order to demonstrate the essence of such a declaration. I can agree and understand the discussions and the dilemmas over the form in which this essence is expressed. In this regard, I would like to say that the SPS-JS parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment proposing that amendments be made in the preamble to the 2nd indent declaration. It is therefore an indent that expresses its commitment to the spirit and norms of many international institutions that have adopted the necessary declarations, conventions and protocols. We, in addition to harmonising with the official names of international institutions and acts, are introducing and mentioning institutions that are practically founded ad hoc for the processing of major and major crimes, i.e. crimes. With the hope that this amendment will define this indent more precisely, I call on the Proposer and all MPs to support this amendment. The declaration can't print history. Unfortunately, she can't make it any more beautiful, or change it. He can't even bring back numerous innocent victims. By calling and supporting all necessary institutions to bring criminals to justice, to reveal all crimes, that all criminals have equal treatment and that all other parliaments in the environment, or all other parliaments dealing with this matter and with the space of the SFRY, have committed themselves in this matter and also condemn these crimes, it can be assumed that from the most terrible thing that has happened, from the great victims of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have submitted some lessons and mistakes do not repeat. Of course, searching for peaceful solutions creates preconditions for a better future for all. With this in mind, certainly as witnesses to the danger of forgetting some previous crimes from the past, this declaration imposes on all of us the obligation to keep a lasting memory of the victims of the Serb people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, committed from the late 1990s in the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Kosovo and Metohija and NATO bombing. So it leaves the obligation to remember them permanently and to constantly, too, remind the international community of terrible crimes. With that in mind, I urge all MPs to support this declaration. The SPS-JS Parliament Club will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45255	Four minutes and 33 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45256	How much time do I have, Mrs. Comic? (President: At the disposal of the parliamentary group for 26 minutes and 15 seconds. ) Mrs. Komic, the most well-intentioned towards you and anyone who will be chaired here in the future, I would only draw your attention, I would not call for anything dangerous, but I would draw attention to you that we do not have a representative in the room and I would draw attention to you to inform the service that the next time the agenda is formed, when it comes to declarations, resolutions, decisions, etc., that you must read the members of Rules of Procedure 151 and, when it comes to emergency proceedings, Article 167. Now let me move on to what's the theme of today's session. For today, a session with one item of the agenda is scheduled, of course, you know, nothing happens by chance in life, such as day and night. The media has prepared the public today to talk about something where there is a great degree of unity, that we will all bring one declaration, where we will condemn everything that has been bad for the past 20 years, all crimes and mention all the victims, etc. Of course, these were high expectations of citizens, but today's debate did not show it. Why didn't she show? Because we are essentially divided. We're divided into two groups. We are divided into Euro-Atlanticists and we are divided into those who are pro-Serbian-oriented. It's a natural division. Someone loves Europe and Brussels more than their home end, you know, rather than your child, my neighbor, I can understand that, and I don't get mad at it at all. I see. It's this style of behavior, and I accept that it exists, I don't share those values, but I accept that something like that exists, because I've read our history, and this isn't an exception. This is a rule when it comes to our people. Someone likes Brussels more than Belgrade. That's how it's supposed to be accepted. I warn citizens that politics is almost all based on agreement and belief, be careful when you have to believe. Mrs. Kolundjia, since you've come, let me tell you, there is no Memorial room in Kravica, so the village of Kravica has no Memorial room, I've been informed by these of mine from Republika Srpska. Let's move on now. Now let me explain one more thing to you, if in the future you want to quote exactly what your candidate for President of the Republic has promised you, we'll take everything out, then we'll see what he's done and what he hasn't done. He promised 200,000 people he would get a job if he was elected president, meanwhile 200,000 people lost their jobs. Just for the sake of order. Let's go down a little bit, let's see with the facts. So, respected citizens, since for the past 15 years the debate on this topic has ended a group of highly thoughtless intellectuals free of mind in our country such as Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, Borka Pavicevic, Miljenko Dereta, Youth Initiatives and other NGOs, Resistance, Žika Bambus, etc., came to the turn and the National Assembly to plead. So this group, as a predecessor, has prepared public opinion. How? Public opinion has been prepared by having to fear NATO's pact, the EU, the United States. That's one real factor. They can do everything that Zoran Djindjic said on a TV show, TV duel Vojislav Seselj and Zoran Djindjic on Palm Plus TV, when Zoran Djindjic couldn't say about Clinton being a war criminal, then he gave a nice description of the NATO Pact, so he said, excuse me, so that's one pub where there are 19 robbers and now we're going to go in there like that and now we're going to do some justice among the robbers. I supported it. That's true. Let's move on. They have carried out the preparation of public opinion, however, a deadlock job. Cruel are facts and the truth is a cruel thing. She can't change. It cannot be done that kind of conversion, that someone from the ruling coalition respects the SRS and sits with the SPS in the same government. You can't respect yourself, you were in power in 1992. What doesn't suit you, that's your problem, that's an emotional problem. The facts are inexorable. Let's move on. If we look at this declaration as a literary composition, it's really illiterate. Then I must tell you, if you read the explanation and the text of the proposal for a declaration, you will see that a declaration worked by an expert and explained the right concepts in the explanation, and then someone from the policy domain butchered the proposal for a declaration and you have the explanation and text of the proposal in the argument, even the termological one. Let's take it in a row. The political aspect and the political and legal aspect of such a declaration is at the level of consideration: freedom or death. There is no greater insult to be given to the Serbian people than to vote for such a declaration. I'll try to analyze it that way. I don't want to repeat what other colleagues have already said, but just so you know. You see, if you gave this text to Zoran Petrovic Piroc, who published the book "Antispian virus, how to kill him", where he quoted in real time from 1991 to 1996 what those from Western Europe and the world said, which you say are your partners and friends, believe that listeners and viewers would be disgusted to follow this transmission. What do they mean by the Serbian people in general, not individually? Furthermore, I must draw your attention that you are, in fact, in this preamble, the second and third indents, demonstrating something that is simply amazing to me. You're reviving the dead Hague tribunal. Yours is the basis for this declaration of the UN tribunal statute. There were 78 professors of international law against the formation of this court. Now Judge Alfonse Ori, while he was a lawyer, wrote a study in 1997 that challenged the legitimacy of the UN tribunal, but you're looking at it uncritically, you know you just have to fulfill a warrant from abroad. Of course, in that third indent, where you don't know what crimes are, what crimes are, it's a special story now. At the first point of the declaration you use some words to judge me something, we actually invite some. So you're not judging, you're saying -- judging by that, we're calling on others. So whose attitude is that? Is that our attitude or some kind of trick? Of course, you have applied the principle of selectivity. When the principle of selectivity is applied then human rights are violated, then everything is broken, so you know. The principle of selectivity says -- there are locations where it is desirable to commit crimes against Serbs and there are locations where it is not desirable to commit crimes against Serbs. You kicked Slovenia out, of course, because of Jelko Kacin, because Jelko Kacin became our constitutional category. It's become a congregation, though, because a little bit, a little bit, so here he comes in here like some sheriff telling us something about how to move on, too. Of course, with the NATO Pact, you do not talk about crime either, and thus do not act according to the UN Prosecutor's Office's report, which on the 29th page found that there could be no proceedings before The Hague tribunal against NATO bombers, pilots, and so on, because all they did was a crime against peace, and there is no such crime in the UN tribunal's statute. But you're moving on because you're aware that The Hague tribunal and many other institutions are simply designed to amnesty those who broke the former SFRY. They broke her up. When you refer to some international standards, you know what it's like in The Hague? Those apparent crimes against the Serb people in The Hague have been ruled by the verdicts to conclude that Serbs appear as victims because they shot at each other or did not know they were handling weapons. That's the principle. Why? The Hague tribunal said Serbs are guilty and that picture must not change, 70% guilt will be Serbs, 20% will be Croats, 10% will be Muslims. It was written in 1992 and they stick to it, but you use it as your criteria and you call for something, true, reconciliation and here I listen to my kind, I apologize for the expression, stupidity where it's said – someone committed a crime on my behalf. In my name, no one has committed a crime, I have not even authorized anyone. No one here has authorized anyone to do anything on his behalf, but you love these epic and lyrical parts to be, if possible, convincing. What you said at point three, this is a disgrace and a shame. Let me tell you, that's where you listed and kept your permanent memory. Dragan Koadinovic was the minister of information and culture. He simply did not allow the Genocide Museum to function. Not to tell you what problems Professor Bulajic had. You're sworn to something, some kind of guard or wherever you say it is -- to give full support to the state authorities. You want me to give Bruni Vekaric some support? You want me to back up? To those institutions formed by the order and means of the American Embassy and the famous Sam Nazar, who dictated the verdicts? Please don't. Don't ask normal people to support those who work as insiders against this people. That's what I'm saying, and I can prove it whenever you want. It is said further, that the perpetrators of crimes against the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia are being investigated to the end. What were you going to say next? Explain. You're swearing, so I don't trust you. I never trusted you with anything. I never believed a word you said. I was sure everything would be negative. I can't agree to your policy. I'll never agree to your policy because it's devastating. The results are terrible. I'd say you've brought the state here that we're on the verge of the future. You've exhausted the future of some, so now we're at the edge of the abyss. You can't fix that. In the end, why do you need one of these declarations? To fool the citizens, to say yes. What else do we have to agree to? Should I adopt these declarations to give Tadic an alibi to visit some localities and there to play Willy Brant? It's okay. It's okay. I don't give him an alibi for that. I can't wait for him to fall out of power. He has ruined this country, ruined this nation's dignity, this people's pride. Please, he's made a big diplomatic scandal. You went to 60 and some states, you got consent to that resolution that you swore to here, and two days before that, you humiliated those 60 states. Who's going to believe you? No one trusts you. He doesn't trust you abroad. I won't trust you either. You've disrupted relations with all our traditional friends. Who's your traditional friend? The one who guarantees you a chair with no results. Please, you're a government that doesn't see people, and you used to have "Life ahead of all things," "Life has no alternative," and now "Brisel doesn't have an alternative." What black Brussels? It's a long way from Brussels. We all know it's far away. For who knows which time to tell you, Serbia will never be an EU member, it will not be a NATO pact member. Who tells you it's gonna be? On the hook. He's lying to the citizens. Why is he lying? To take advantage of the time for the robbery. That's the word. That robbery is proven in every place. Finally, let us say something about what we are actually doing in the National Assembly today. Why do you need this declaration? Condemned criminals and criminals? Well, there's no such thing here. To show a single dose of humanity, how we're going to cooperate in pain and put our victims first. Well, you didn't do it either. What needs to be done is to demonstrate some humanity that will only be valid for two more days, because there will be a nice campaign. It is impossible that people could not vote for this declaration condemning all crimes against the Serbian people and citizens. We're miraculously doing it. With us, the Serbian people cannot be interpreted in a populist sense, but only in the ethnic sense of words. It's some story of yours for flirting with various sides. So I'm telling you that this declaration in this text should not be adopted at all. Why? This is another crime against Serbian victims, because I don't trust you who wrote this declaration. Everything you wrote, everything you promised, turned out to be played. You've played everything. Where's your 200,000 jobs? Where is this road - the EU at hand, 2001, 2004, 2007, 2008, 2012, 2012, 2035? What do you think, someone will give you the right to rule for 40 years? So, what's left of this Serbia? If we agree with your policy, it doesn't occur to us. At the center of politics, a man must be put, not Brussels's interests, what the West will say, what he will say, what he will say. Please, take care because, as far as I can see, the people are losing their patience, not because of their emotions, but because a real man can no longer stand this condition. This is a state of hopelessness. You're wasting someone else's future. You're destroying the perspective, the positions of the people who are supposed to live in this country. They don't have a spare state, but you don't care. I have to remind the citizens, when you voted for pro-European parties, you voted to pass a resolution on Srebrenica. When you voted for pro-European parties, you voted for Eulex to come to KIM. When you voted for pro-European parties, you voted to fire 200,000 people. When you voted for pro-European parties, you voted that there was nothing in the economy. When you voted for pro-European parties, you voted to get the banks to pull you in Serbia. When you voted for pro-European parties, you voted against your children. They don't think about our children, they're not interested in our children, they're interested in what CNN, BBC and some other foreign agencies are going to be the best minister in the world for the current year. Last year's surplus...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45257	People's MP, I ask you, by respecting Article 106(1), to link these views to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45258	Mrs. Komic, if you make only a little effort, you will see that in this declaration the word "future" and "resurrection" is repeated in several places, in this context I comment on the text of the declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45259	People's MP, please link what you've already said. The election was on 11 May 2008. That's the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45260	I wasn't talking about the election, I was just saying why the ZES got the support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45261	In the stenogram, please look at what you've been saying because I wouldn't interrupt you by applying attitude 106, paragraph 1, if you hadn't completely moved your argument on the agenda theme, so please connect...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45262	Mrs. Comic, we'll check together after that, just go back to this declaration. So, you're asking us to trust you, here we have put you to a bit of a test. We gave you a motion for a declaration concerning the conviction of the Ustasha crime, you refused. We gave you a declaration concerning the genocide of the Armenians, you refused, so here, frankly, I must say, you made a statement. I honestly admit for the first time, you said -- we favour economic interests and co-operation with Turkey. So what's the definition of genocide, what's human rights, you're not interested in, you're only interested in the economy. The effects of your interest in the economy are too rich for certain ministers. Come on, come on. You remember that kid that can't get into this building anymore. So you've shown your value to this issue, crime, victims, convictions, etc. You've shown who you are, what you are. We can't trust you. We have some experience. We know you, we know that every piece of paper you put in here and you're starting to defend through Natasha Kandic and the others, or through the preparation apparatus, or through that capillary organization, we know what's hiding. He's hiding a prank. It hides the spread of fear for citizens, in order to get our support and ours, the consent of the Republic of Serbia to all this bad that is happening to us. I raise my voice against it. We must not, as a state, give consent to these things, which we all know are bad and that they do not allow the future and development of this country. We will not vote for this declaration. We also call on other parliamentary groups, especially those who believe they are pro-Serbian parties, not to accept this text of the declaration, because I do not know what we should believe. Tell me a sentence we should believe, that you were honest, that you were correct. You have masqueraded 60 states, states that have agreed to take action in the General Assembly in order to preserve international law. If you are 60 leaders, 60 states, one powerful Russia could be deceived in this way to say – so they ask us Russians to be bigger Serbs than them, if you could, then no wonder what you're doing with this people. We don't want any part of this. We want to stamp this, criticize, warn RS citizens how dangerous it is to trust ZES and pro-European parties. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45263	The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45264	The esteemed chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, opened the Memorial room in Bratunac on 12 April 2004. What I don't want to talk about is whether some MPs believe us or not. It is important for us to be trusted by the citizens of Serbia because we have not failed them, because our promises have been fulfilled. I almost understand that those who participated in the creation of these victims cannot participate in the adoption of a declaration, in which they would show respect for these victims and support institutions that perpetrators of crime respond to courts. That almost doesn't have to be explained to anyone, I think the citizens of Serbia understand that. When citizens voted for us and did not vote for radicals, they voted for peace. When they voted for us and not for radicals, they voted for co-operation with the world, for tolerance, for the future of their children in a peaceful and secure environment. They also voted for a visa-free journey, voted for Serbia and its citizens to return their respect, and they got it, and that's why they voted for us, not for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45265	The word is by MP Zoran Ostojic, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45266	Article 107(1) has injured dignity. I would ask Mrs. Kolundji to be as precise as possible – what are my victims, where I participated in the creation of the victims? Would you say, please, where are my victims? Tell me, where are my victims? Faster, Mrs. Kolundjia, please let the Serbian public hear what my victims are. In The Hague, they couldn't find the victims of Vojislav Seselj or the volunteers of the SRS, and you found them. Who are you to find the victims? When did you make the sacrifice? You didn't call in to testify to the prosecution, did you? I know that you are the heritage of your president, who said on February 17, 2003 – you are the leader of Seselj and do not return him. That's what Carla del Ponte published. Please make an urgent list of my victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45267	There is no violation of Article 107 and no violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and I ask you not to abuse the right given to Article 103(1). Right on the line, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45268	I didn't know that Seselj was so respectful and listening to my president, so when he said something like that, he got himself together, so I went to The Hague. So the truth is, he went to The Hague himself. Anything else can be an attempt to politically justify itself. Maybe you all here now think he was wrong back then, but now, I'm afraid, it's too late. He checked himself in, and he volunteered there himself. No one else sent him there. I want to say that there are policies that lead to conflict, that there are policies that seek peaceful solutions. There are policies that sow hate and there are policies that advocate tolerance. There are policies that do not recognise differences and show hatred for every difference, and there are policies that deeply respect differences between people of any kind. If a policy sowed hatred, if it wanted to war, if it was conflicting the people with everyone else in the environment, then it can also be talked about the responsibility of such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45269	National MP Dragan Todorovic is seeking the right to replication. You have no right to a replica. Nothing false was said in what was said. Please don't throw it away. You have no right to a replica. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45270	I call on Article 104 to make false statements in the previous discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45271	National MP, Article 104 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45272	Mrs. Komic, Article 107(2), check, as I see you're checking everything when someone says which member. What's this about? Please, this is inadmissible to conduct a debate like this in the National Assembly. Let me explain one thing to you. I was quoting what Carla del Ponte wrote in the book, and Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't know if she's listening, whether she's reading books at all, or just the Internet. Mrs. Kolundjia, remember Ljubisa Saviæ Mauzera, vice president of the DS. Don't be so exclusive. Remember the ox on the palaces, the venison. Remember, ask your party president when Radovan Karadzic came through Drina, first he went to Tadic, Micunovic, and only if he remembers Milosevic. Don't play some innocent around here, please. It's all been recorded. Read a little books, follow testimonies, don't make up anything. You've twisted something that you're, I don't know, something god knows what you Democrats are. You Democrats have destroyed the country. You destroy her every day. Of course I'm your opponent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45273	Article 107, paragraph 2, to which you have called, MP, reads - at the session of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to directly address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, or to give facts or assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Your argument did not, in any word, touch the content of Article 107(2). The only choice I have is to act on Article 103 of Section 7 and give you a warning about the abuse of rights, the precious rights given to every MP, to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to make sure that the procedure is respected until the end and that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is respected until the end. I give you a warning under Article 103(7). National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which time is the injured member of the 27th? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because Mrs Nada Kolundzija, in addition to any provision of the Rules of Procedure, was granted the right to replicate Mr Zoran Krasic, who appeared for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45275	The MP, giving or not giving of the right to replica, cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot abuse your obligation to quote a member by working in order, quoting Article 27, and then talking about a completely different member. Given that this is a repeated abuse of the right to an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 103(7), I give you a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45276	Thank you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Koknu and you. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić has a word after him, MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45277	Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, there is a debate all day on one topic that should not be partying and partying. But, people, we condemn crimes against our people. What's so controversial about that? For us, it's so undeniable that we don't think it should be a special declaration. That's what everyone condemns. It's easy to do. It's harder to condemn crimes against other peoples. It's easier when those crimes against other nations have been committed by others, not ours. The most difficult thing is to condemn and punish our criminals. That's what this is all about, and that's why at first I've divided, conditionally speaking, into two parts of the exposure. One is crimes and criminals, and the other are crime policies, criminal policies. They have to be convicted. That's why we have a so-called attitude here. pro-Serbian parties who will not condemn crimes against their people, because they know that this must ultimately lead to the condemnation of Serb criminals. Why doesn't someone want to condemn Serbian criminals? It's the only way he'll get a moral right to ask other people's criminals to convict their crimes. Because a lot of people have committed a crime. They're scared. Their hands are blood to their elbows, some to their shoulders. They were part of that policy. Politics that took care of the man, so it was Jazda and Dafina, so there was robbery and murder, so there was stealing people's couples, so there was Madonna on the crates earned. Where are they? One killed himself in The Hague by taking the anti-leaders, because he knew either dead or Moscow, where his wife and child are. But there are a lot of people here who are afraid of opening that story. Until it opens, all this foam for marketing or trying to justify yourself to them, how you patriots, and they're not, will not lead to results. That's what this is about, since your turn of September 9th, it's a tragedy for them. For them, it is a tragedy, a turn towards European and Euro-Atlantic Serbia is a tragedy. Why? Because they know that in such a Serbia that takes care of people, in which hospitals with appliances are in Serbia, they have medicines, and not that we have to treat ourselves in Turkey, where schools are equipped with computers, where people and our children are trained in certain occupations that will be well paid, rather than being garbageists of Europe, in such a Serbia is shown who loves their country. It's not here, Mr. Krasic. It's about love. Do we prefer Brussels or Washington or Serbia? That's where we want it, because we love Serbia. Love may be among some, perhaps, when Serbia and some other team are playing, rooting for the other team. It seems to be about love and interest. To whom does Euro-Atlantic peaceful, Serbia not respond, in good relations with its neighbours? Who's not answering? Serbia? To the Serbian people? That's not true. Maybe someone's not answering. All their hope, after your turn, is this Holland. They're relying on Holland to block us. They did everything, through the latest exhibits of this criminal policy these days to arm the face of Serbia, to stop that turn, because they know that they will eventually respond. Those who are most responsible, I'm sorry, gentlemen, are European values. 90-year-olds who committed crimes in World War II are found and tried. Unpunished crimes give birth to new crimes. That's what happened in the former Yugoslavia. The criminals are trying to leave this world unsullied. These aren't the people who were in The Hague, they're the people who are here, in the church, in the academy. People who obviously love a different state, not one, another state, represent their interests, not the interests of Serbia and the Serb people. That's why they won't condemn crimes against Serbs. Simply, serving other people's interests has its own price. They think they'll lead them to power. Well, let's see. They got NIS. You gave them all that together, but as I can see, they didn't calm down. Members of ideology who considered the avant-garde to be a working class, advocates of the totalitarian system of opinion, were easily referred to as the avant-garde of the nation. These are criminals, because after World War II, you will agree, many criminals are tried – fascist crimes and others, domestic assistants and those failed anti-fascists. There's been a lot of tents. One crime wasn't convicted, all of our criminals, 90% of ours and their criminals finished the same schools, were raised in the same system. What system were they raised in? That it's allowed to kill unpunished because of an idea. Once it was some red idea, then it became black. That's the point. Let's talk straight about what's going on. That's why they're not ready. They're in trouble. They're in trouble and you can see it in the streets, but I hope, since you have most of them, you won the elections, you've made that government, you'll be able to answer the moment. This turn must continue. If they stop you, they absolutely follow what they say – an EU alternative. She, gentlemen, exists, it's not disputed. These are: roots, these are sanctions, they're visas, but who doesn't remember that we already survived an alternative in the '90s, and those who today won't condemn crimes against Serbs were advocates of that policy, and today they are, what do we do to him? There are alternatives, except that alternative is bad. That's why I hope, and that's why we're voting for this resolution, not that we're thrilled with the way it happened, that this will lead to where we push you, those from Brussels and Washington to the wolf, these will trip you and their cartridges and mentors, but we're slowly moving there. I hope this will lead to the arrest and extradition of Ratko Mladic for starters, because without it, sorry, the opening of that story will not be possible, and then hopefully it will not end because of the PR, the research of public opinion on it, we sent it, we fulfilled our obligation, etc. No, why is that man there? What's he accusing himself of? Not to be like Radovan Karadzic, where in that month-long media halabuca, it was more important whether he treated pregnant women or sterile women with a viscous, but what he was accused of. Hide crime and close only form, as we have fulfilled, we are going, in principle, to those who are advocates of crime politics only bravely, just giving them strength. Now they're scared, beat them up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45278	A minute and 30 seconds remain available to the parliamentary group. The People's MP Vlatko Ratkovic has the word, followed by MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45279	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the resolution on the condemnation of crimes committed in Srebrenica adopted by this high house was not only a legal act or some general legal act, as well as today's declaration that we are adopting and discussing is not just a legal act, it is one civilizational stance that is based not only on what stands in the preamble of this document, the spirit and letter of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not only on the spirit and norms of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is also based on our sincere and unequivocal belief that, in the premises of the former Yugoslavia after World War II, there have been terrible armed conflicts in which innocent victims have been killed. We, as a parliament, have condemned the sacrifices committed on our behalf, calling on us, condemning criminals and, among other things, building on our right to call on other countries, countries in the environment to do everything their parliaments and their institutions, not only to condemn crimes committed against Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, but also to collect evidence, prosecute war crimes suspects and co-operate with relevant international institutions. That's why we bring this declaration, it's very simple, and it's based on the fact that human life is incomparable, that all people are born equal, and it's only obvious truths, that the right to every man's life is incomparable. The categorical imperative that stands before us, as part of the political elite, on us 250 MPs representing eight million Serbian citizens, is reconciliation. The reconciliation comes with truth, and the truth is also historical, and criminal and legal and self-evident truth. These self-evident truths speak unequivocally that serious crimes against all nations, members of the Serb people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia are committed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. That is why we express our regret and solidarity, along with the condemnation of all crimes. I want to say that this generation of politicians should take responsibility for people living today in both Serbia and the countries in the environment, and in countries with whom we have had conflicts in not so long ago, not to leave one deformed, distorted, confusing, mixed-valued system, but to send a clear message that lasting and stable peace is what really does not have an alternative on the premises of this part of Europe, therefore, in Southeast Europe, that is, in the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45280	Three minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word, and after him, the MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must also express a part of my disappointment with the behaviour of many colleagues because the topic of the declaration, based on which we show respect for the victims of Serbs and all Serbian citizens, deserves different and more appropriate behaviour, and there are no touching points with all the other topics mentioned today in the discussions. If we really have this feeling of solidarity and compassion with the suffering of victims and members of their families, then we should all behave differently today. What is more, a memorial gathering was held today in the King’s day of 1941 because a great fascist retribution was carried out on the day of 1941. In a week, it's a similar gathering in Kragujevac. I think these are the days of one national sobering and the days in which everyone else should behave differently. From the point of view of the SPO, it is clear to us that, always after conflict, perhaps several generations should pass, experts say – 80 years, that they have been engaged in society as they were before the conflict. We were aware of this in the 1980s, before the creation of a multi-party system, when the genocide of the Serb people, in the weather, when there was a ban on writing and speaking, was the only one written by Mr. Vuk Draskovic. That he didn't do anything else on the national issue, that he left no other trace on the Serbian political scene, and he left it, I think today deserves us all to give him credit because he then warned that if we don't talk about crimes, if we don't trade crimes, he didn't call for revenge, we give the right to pay off the crime and come in danger of a repeat crime. Unfortunately, it all happened that way. What happened to Serbs, Serbian people and Serbian citizens in the armed conflicts of the 1990s? Persecution of the population, torture, murder, rape, massacres, concealment of corpses, eradication of identity, robbery, robbery, destruction of settlements, abuse of civilians, placing in camps, kidnapping, execution of civilians in the end, a totally wrong policy has brought us under NATO pact bombs. I don't see, from the point of view of the SPO, what is controversial in a declaration that requires respect for the victims of its own people and its own citizens, to be asked by the parliaments of neighbouring countries to fence themselves from their crimes, to investigate all crimes, to bring everyone to justice and to create new relations in the region. But I'm gonna go back to the 80 years that every society needs, so it looks like ours. It seems to me that today, neither in Serbia nor in the former Yugoslavia, there is enough readiness to condemn the crimes committed on behalf of, allegedly, national interests against other peoples. That is why the modern and orderly world, which rests on respect for human rights, and today the Balkans sees us as a black hole. Many who spoke today also mentioned Christianity, both Orthodoxism and Christ’s teaching, but they just forgot that when Christ spoke of man, he did not speak of a man a Serb or a man a member of another nation, he spoke of a man of God. When he spoke of men, he never said, "Kill not, but love your neighbor." The SPO believes that this is the beginning of many declarations, which we find differently sobered, better and more conscious Serbia will adopt in this parliament. For this reason, we have today supported this House's proposal to adopt a declaration of condemnation of genocide committed at the premises of the Independent State of Croatia, as we will support the versatile and future declarations, because we have not laundered many of our sins with our own conscience. What's this about? I think that 80 mass graves in the 80 cities of Serbia, which the alleged liberators, the Partizan movement, in 1944, left in heritage, where today the stadiums, the kindergartens, the residential buildings, I think is the first-class task of the state to those victims, just because they were members of the Serb civil class, gave due recognition, to write down the victims, to name the executioners, and to raise appropriate memorials. I also think it is necessary, if we are real, true and honest nationalists, to find the grave of one of the first guerrillas in occupied Europe, General Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic. The real question for the crimes of the '90s is what caused it. The suffering of the population is the result, and the cause is the wrong policy. Slovenians said -- Yugoslavia's reforms or war. The Croats said: secession or war, the Serbs asked that the dead Tito wear a youth staff and they said communist Yugoslavia or war. War was the connective tissue of all. People who grew up in one ideology until the 1990s are killing in the name of brotherhood and unity, and since the 1990s they've been killing in the name of Croatia, in the name of Bosniakism, it just proves that they've replaced one leftist ideology with another nationalist ideology and there's room for everything except normal people. The SPO was sober and you remember, we didn't need 15 years to condemn the crimes in Srebrenica, we don't need to come in 2010 to discuss mass graves in Serbia left by partisans. We talked about it in the '90s. The SPO wants, with all its political and human attitudes, to make a full contribution to respecting the highest Christian value, which is human life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45282	Seven minutes and 40 seconds of MP time used. The People's MP Srdjan Mikovic has the word, followed by MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good to agree on this declaration. I call on you to give up selfish and foreign policy. I call on you to skip the phraseric patriotism, especially to leave out the tradition of cashing in patriotism. I think we should all treat the piety of all victims, looking for memories of victims, armed conflicts in Yugoslavia in the 1990s, in which all the nations suffered severe casualties, never faded, feeling deeply sorry for the sacrifices suffered by other nations and national minorities. Everyone was killed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but just by voting a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica, in the last week of the big post, we all gained the right to raise our eyes, to stand up and speak loudly and to talk about what was done to Serbs and Serbian citizens. Our voice will be heard further. Just by pulling the rot out of our eyes, we've acquired the right to look others in the eye, whether or not they've seen it too. I think that as members of the majority people, we have a special responsibility, because both Serbs and non-Serbs were killed, and in Dobrovoljajska street was suffered by a non-Serb General Enes Taso, who had multiple gunshot wounds, precisely because he cared about young people and was at the end of the column as a general. This declaration condemns all crimes, and this declaration is to both us and neighbouring countries the incentive for all to face evil and to turn good, to return to the right values. Someone said that individuals weren't frames or that they didn't have the courage to talk about everything that happened in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. I can just say that there are two other witnesses in this room that right in the White House, in front of Mr. Hill, we talked about the consequences of Panchevo's environmental pollution. Just thanks to argumental speech and explanations, the next day our address took place in the policy of the largest force in the world, where we accepted our view that not only food and medicine came into the notion of humanitarian aid, but also the resolution of ecologically endangered areas, with the promise that we and our friends in the Stability Pact are all obliged to work on the rehabilitation of ecologically threatened areas. Our speech is not aimed at achieving cheap political points, but is aimed at establishing the right values. It is sad that we cannot agree on this proposal for a declaration either. Now I'm asking, don't we recognize the need to look up to what's best in our people? It is necessary to create conditions so that evil never repeats itself. What I don't know and what I won't understand is why individuals have the need to destroy every good and noble intention, because we must not forget, it is our heart that is being questioned whether we are able to look up to what is best in our people. Blissfully resting bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic said that you are a good Serb if you have the justice of Markovo, the sacrifice of Lazarevo, the heart of Jugovic's mother, the forgiveness of Strahinjic Ban, and if we do not have those virtues of our ancestors, then we are just one famous firm in an empty store. That is why I will be happy when this parliament, when our Serbia is full of shops, is filled with houses of moral values. That's why I urge you to declare this declaration, never to repeat evil again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45284	Five minutes and 25 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Žika Gojkovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45285	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a declaration of conviction committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. We enter, slowly but surely, in the ninth hour of discussion on this subject. From the very beginning, it was clear that the debate on this subject, which we are talking about today, which is painful whenever it opens, is an ideal opportunity to compete in patriotism, which is very often just the desire to collect cheap political points, which is easy to see in today's presentation of certain MPs. By making flat-rate estimates, half-truths, but often false claims when it comes to such difficult topics, they show, unfortunately, that we haven't learned much from history, and then it's no wonder we're always facing problems that should have long been part of our past. Mr Ostojic touched one very interesting thing, he said that when we talk about European values, then European values are that the old man in the 1990s, who committed war crimes, was processed and ended up in prison. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, 90-year-olds, who have committed war crimes, such as Jova Kapicic, have the opportunity to make it very clear to their fellow citizens that they will do so today and that they are not ashamed at all. Today, like many times so far, we have the opportunity to see how deeply our society is divided and how much politics and demagogy individuals influence these divisions to be even greater. We also have a chance to see that nothing is sacred to us and that we cannot agree even when it comes to crimes against our own people. The SPO, unfortunately, did not have the opportunity to participate in drawing up this declaration. We believe that this was an ideal opportunity for the state to finally determine against the communist crimes committed between 1941 and 1953, mainly from 1944 to 1953, when, in a short time, about 100,000 innocent people were killed, based on false statements and testimony, and their assets were permanently alienated, mainly by those who testified. What a coincidence. This has mostly happened during the last months of the war and the first years of freedom, before the formation of regular courts, when every unverified information, lie and slander was enough for someone to lose their head and lose their lives on some of the Serbian and former Yugoslavia's sites, from Grgur, Bileca, to Golog Otok. On the winding-up list, which is interesting, were mostly the supporters of the right-wing movement, priests, police members, officers, diplomatic and civil servants, members of the ruling dynasty, pre-war towers, and all the self-aware people who refused to take sides with the revolutionary forces. The example is very much and each one shows the brutality in which the system functioned and how crimes were committed. There's a lot of examples, and there's little time to talk. I'll just remind you of one. One of the greatest people in Serbian history, a man who only accepted to defend Draža Mihailovic, Dragic Joksimovic, otherwise a member of the DS, was arrested, killed and buried in the prison yard immediately after the process. Two years later, those who wanted to make a normal funeral were arrested on his grave. This shows how we have not yet been determined against these people who have done evil and, worst of all, evil toward our own people. The Rehabilitation Act aims to clear the names of all those who were innocent victims of the then government, but those victims should definitely be leveled with others in one such declaration and finally take a break from the communist heritage. But what's more important is to show in part how serious we are when we talk about national reconciliation. It has been 21 years, ladies and gentlemen, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, and partisans are still taboo topics in Serbia. Every day we're bombarded with Partizan movies on TV. Excavation of countless mass graves is forbidden, while access to well-preserved documents depends solely on the resourcefulness of enthusiasts. One of these enthusiasts is Nemanja Dević, a guy who, at the age of 18, wrote the book "Truth Under Key", in which he presented basic biographical data, the way and place of death of 1,270 of his compatriots from the surrounding Smederjevska Palanka. It was a little boy when he was 18. That's why this guy is so much bigger than these years he owns them. If that's what a 18-year-old boy did, what's to stop us as a state and as a people from doing the same thing? Here today, the greatest state secret is considered to be the graves of innocently murdered, and no one has ever charged these crimes, although many criminals are known, as well as the locations where the tombs are located. It is a great sin on the conscience of the Serbian people, and until the court comes out and declares a crime, we will collectively suffer the consequences of this sin, and we can only hope better when we ourselves are better, i.e. When we treat our victims better. After 1989, newly formed democratic authorities in post-Communist countries opened secret files, excavated mass graves, made lists of victims and decently buried them, even members of the Rights Movement, which Slovenia long ago did. They did, as I have already said, Slovenia and Croatia. With the irony of fate, Croatia became the first country of the former Yugoslavia to issue an APB for a Partisan. It's just us and, of course, our Russian brothers. The SPO sincerely regrets all the innocent victims who died in the mad wars of the 1990s and therefore we will vote for the proposed text of the declaration, as we voted for Srebrenica. We also call on all international actors to look for peace solutions, so that such sacrifices never happen again. We very clearly want to say that the SPO will never give up the fight to correct the great injustices that Communism has done to this people and we will never be calm until the victims and criminals are called the real name.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45286	Seven minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45287	I already said once that I don't belong to people who believe in coincidences, especially not politics. On a day previously known as the day of the celebration of the Serbian New Year, 13 January, a person in the role of Serbian President said we must separate the Srebrenica Resolution and the resolution on Serbian victims, stressing that he himself initiated the adoption of the Srebrenica Resolution, because he believes the issue is neither party nor political, but valuable and moral. He did not explain why the adoption of a single declaration of condemnation of all crimes, especially crimes against Serbs, would be political and party rather than simply a human and moral issue. The Srebrenica resolution removes the anthem from our people, protects our national interest, and it will be a confirmation that there is no collective guilt and that every criminal has his name and name. That is what Zaratustra said, and yet he did not explain why it is contrary to Serbia's national interest at the same time to condemn crimes against Serbs. It wasn't worth it the day after 14 January in downtown Belgrade, not far from the Serbian president's building, the "Sarajev Genocide over 6,350 Serbs" graph. More than 3,000 Sarajevo Serbs were tortured in 126 camps that existed in this city during the last war, and so far, 179 rape crimes have been identified and documented. According to the Serbian MUP, 3,299 Serbs were killed in Sarajevo. They're calling for a conscience from a man who at least, given the birthplace, would have to remember a Sarajevo genocide against the Serbs. To make things more paradoxical, the graphite is written right across the street from the famous Manež, for which since October 10, many claim to have justified the name "Adversity for Minority". NATO's aggression against our country began on 24 March 1999, and 11 years later, just on 24 March 2010, BT met with Croatian President IJ, promising him the condemnation of all criminals and criminals except, of course, Serbs. With the already famous Beyden's conditions in mind, anticipating those who will be salted by Hilary the day after the gay parade, the president of the Serbian state avoids that Josipovic's earthquakes reminding the victims of the Holocaust and the fact that the Ustasha camp Jasenovac in the Nazi puppet NDH was the third largest, possibly the most played-out camp for the extermination of Serbs in World War II. As the most fundamental successor of one Josip, he avoids bothering Josipovic with such trivial data as those concerning Croatia's genocide against Serbs since 1991-1995. His exposure left all those tragic victims of Action Storm, the victims in Bratunc, Milic, Skelani, KIM. Little Sanja from Barvarin, the whole family under the house in Alexinac, the people on the train at Surdulica, Milica Rakic, disappeared. To make the accident bigger, they did not disappear only then, when we met our Clooney and his Croatian counterparts, they are not now in the text which, as a proposal for a declaration by the Serbian Parliament on the condemnation of crimes committed against the Serb people, was filed by the ruling majority. Namely, the document strongly condemns only crimes during armed conflicts in the Republic of Croatia, BiH, to KIM, while only regret and solidarity are expressed against NATO bombing victims. The ruling majority, from a proposal for a declaration of criminal conviction against members of the Serb people and citizens of Serbia, left out the crime of NATO bombing committed in 1999. The proposal contains six members, the first to strongly condemn crimes against Serbs and Serbian citizens during the wars in Croatia, BiH and KIM. Of course, NATO's bombing of Serbia is not mentioned anywhere in that article, but rather calls on parliaments from other countries, primarily from the former Yugoslavia, to condemn these crimes. NATO intervention is therefore mentioned in another member, in which the Assembly only expresses its regret for the victims of NATO bombing, while the strongest conviction in the case of NATO crimes is lagging behind. I wouldn't be surprised if Mr. Shunatovac, who is working with Hilary better than anyone else in the world, had been signed as a proposal for this declaration. I wouldn't be surprised if they were signatories of this proposal from the American Oval Office. But what really surprises me is that the signatories of such a proposal were not only the balloons when the former president of Serbia died in The Hague, but those who, with all their honor, soul and heart, who were on the left hand side, swore that NATO should never be forgotten. I am in so much pain and solidarity with the victims of the ruling ideology, especially when it comes to Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who was so uncomfortable that the text left NATO crimes behind, that she used rationalisation as an explanation – this text was adopted to gain greater support among MPs. Unlike an honest person who is ashamed of having to participate in all things, MP and spokesman DS Jelena Trivan, who is prepared for the hard words of condemnation only when it comes to the anger of young people and dog bites, says that NATO bombing is not condemned in the first article along with crimes in all armed conflicts because of various types of crimes. It would be the same as if I were to say now that I can't condemn myself, and I can't, all dogs, because it's different types of dogs and their bosses, and all bites, because there are different kinds of bites, so it's certainly the bite of the first category when the dog bites the MP, while the child is bitten in some second or third category. The same person, like her colleague Shunatovac, did not mind the fact that during a gay parade on the streets there are different kinds of young people, but were eventually condemned as the forces of chaos and madness. According to the old, well-known recipe, they didn't even bother to explain where pregnant women in DS headquarters were on Sundays and whether it was mobbing or discrimination. It is obvious that, despite the adopted Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, some can discriminate, and others have the right only to be discriminated against, even when victims are victims. A Christian sacrifice is the basis of every virtue, especially love, but it certainly needs to be distinguished from the masochistic instrumentalized sacrifice, which for the sake of achieving its hidden interests on the pillar of shame crucifies everyone who arrives. This position of attaining individual interests of survival in power does not mean simply kneeling before Biden, Kacino, Hilary, it requires much more, and that is to make its own people a execution instead of a execution. An immoral and extremely inhumane policy that paves the way for Europe through the separation of the dead and the demeaning of innocent Serbian victims. For God's sake, if all of us as people are different skin colors, nations, religious orientations, even sexual orientations, are equal only in one, before the fact of death, is it possible that we can't make a consensus here and agree that we can't distinguish the victims and that the Serbian victims can't possibly be less important. Every crime has an perpetrator with a name and a last name that must be brought to justice, as every innocent victim has his own name and name that must not be forgotten. In order not to repeat themselves, no crime shall be justified, neither hidden, nor left unpunished. The perpetrators of war crimes are individuals and as individuals must be responsible for the crimes committed. Crime is a common accident, and individual responsibility. It says in the declaration of the condemnation of all war crimes in the former Yugoslavia's area filed by the DSS and the NS on February 1st this year. The basic text of this declaration dated back to 2005. Today, the DSS has offered you an amendment containing, in fact, the text of this declaration. What prevented you from adopting a single declaration that would condemn any crime without discrimination, without making a difference in the crime scene, based on the faith and nationality of innocent victims? Such a unique declaration would truly express our unambiguous condemnation of the crimes committed in Srebrenica, as well as the mass war crimes committed in "Bleak", "Storm", Sarajevo, Tuzli, in KIM after 1999. Not to mention how the National Assembly would have to discover yet-undiscovered mass graves of World War II at the sites of the former Yugoslavia. Only detecting all crimes and facing the overall past can lead us to a final healing that is a prerequisite for any progress. Serbia has a special life and historical interest in lighting and condemning all war crimes committed in the recent history of Yugoslavia, in which the Serbian people were the greatest victim. First in victims, Serbia must be first in condemning all crimes, according to the DSS and NS declaration. What part of you is vague and unacceptable? The one about the equality of the victims or the one about the truth? Is there anything other than the truth and only the truth about all these crimes and all the victims can be the assumption of real reconciliation in these areas? Was it really necessary in the proposal for this declaration, which, by way of special and consequential expression of discrimination against Serbian victims, left out the fact that NATO bombing was a crime, and that Serbia brought a case against Croatia for genocide against Serbs in the period from 1991 to 1995 before the International Court of Justice? In the spirit of the recently demonstrated'successful' actions of our international and legal teams, Article 5 of this proposal only states that the Assembly provides full support to the team representing the Republic of Serbia in the proceedings against the Republic of Croatia before the International Court of Justice. It remains only that, in line with this four-eyed acceptance of Hilari's requirements for indirect recognition of Kosovo through the establishment of good neighbourly relations with that country, the release of a series of Republika Srpska waters and the entry into NATO provides for a new seventh member who would mean the award of medals to the presidents of the countries that bombed us...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45288	People's MPs, the time available for MPs' groups has been used. Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45289	The Honorable Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the entire world history, unfortunately, is made up of huge victims and most of the innocent victims. While the vast majority lay often and the only thing she possessed, which is the naked life, which was her most precious, the inspirers, ideologists, leaders and criminals most often escaped both human and divine justice. We have before us a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. I always feel uncomfortable when, speaking of victims and criminals, I put in front of them a prefix of national belongings. One who is willing to take an innocent victim's life, is written out of human labor, not from his own nation, and becomes that act by nationality a criminal, regardless of the religion, nationality and race to which he belonged. At the same time, an innocent victim gets an anal status, as someone said, as if humanity and basic human and civilization values were killed through it. The history of Europe is the history of countless victims, and consequently the share of victims of Serbian citizens in the common history is completely disproportionate to its size and population. In the last century alone, countless victims were in the forest and sword before the last breath of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, and they took their toll and crossed Albania's Blue Grave, the Thessaloniki Front. And in the second great war, our participation in innocent victims, from Auschwitz through Shumaric to Jasenovac, was ensuing. Yugoslavia's collapse and the civil war in the last decade was largely paved by the victims of Serbs and other Serbian citizens. To put NATO bombings a year before the end of the century and the millennium. Speaking of so many NATO bombings, I must say that it was illegal, past the UN Charter, without a Security Council decision, past even the NATO Pact charter, which, as a defence organisation, could only use military force in a situation where one of the NATO pact members was attacked. This bombing was also inhumane, because innocent victims were called collateral damage, and it was counterproductive, because if it was directed against the regime, it did not lead to a change in the regime, only bombing, but it took place in the 24 September 2000 elections. Everyone here talked about the consequences. Not a lot of people were talking about the cause. Inspired by some of today's discussions, I'll just ask some of the questions, and let each of us, even within ourselves, even ourselves, answer. How come we entered a war that was lost before it started? How come some of the visionaries of 20 years ago don't even see today, in the end, what many saw at the beginning and what they had to see at the beginning? What is the reason some today are proud of what we should be treated for? By asking these questions, I am not losing sight of the thought of a large Serb poet who claimed that often others and crime were justified as necessary defences, and we also had to be tried for the necessary defence as a crime. What the late Zoran Djindjic would say, the international community is like a climate, you can't admit it or not, but you can adapt. Our victims would have been largely avoided or significantly less if it hadn't been for the idea of a ludicrous movement in these areas, as a political idea of leadership, to break your own people, your own country and your own nation to stop the unstoppable. Patriotism is a natural and normal sense of belonging to the community. He's not noise, public demonstrations, he belongs to the man's intimacy, not noises and anger of that public demonstration. This feeling is stronger when the country is in danger or when it seems unfair, but the reactions must be dignified. The purpose of politics must be to achieve a political goal, not to satisfy political anger, anger and anger. Emotions must never be above Serbia's interest. Autodestruction has caused many innocent victims of the Serbian people and their citizens of other nationalities in the immediate past as a reaction. By paraphrasing the great Hegos, I have to say to some who I've been paying attention to today, even though it's hard enough to listen to: We've been coming down your rope, we're almost past the rope, we've been friends in our heads ever since. Things should not be tried in the Balkans that are not applied elsewhere. In response, Europe offered unification and reconciliation to bloody history. The Srebrenica Declaration, today's declaration and calls to parliaments of other countries of the region should be seen as a call for the Europeanisation of these areas, so that never more common history would be written through the corpses of innocent victims. We owe it to all the innocent victims. We owe it to all citizens of Serbia. We owe it to all future generations. That is why DS MPs, members of the MEP for Europe's Serbia, will support the proposal for a declaration of conviction committed against members of the Serb people and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45290	Six minutes and 10 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Borislav Pelevic has the word, and after him, the Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45291	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, today's topic is very difficult and very sensitive, because it is the victims of crimes against the Serbian people, but I am in no way separating it from the topic we have already elaborated, which is the theme of the victims of the Muslim people in Srebrenica. For SNS, every victim of crime is a sacred sacrifice, and all criminals are cursed, no matter what nation they belong to, to the Serb people or to any other people. So, first of all, I want to express my deep regret for all the victims of the crime during the 1990s and the Serbian people and all the other peoples. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this proposal for a declaration cannot be honored by this congregation. We cannot be proud of him, neither of the victims of the crimes against the Serb people, nor of the families. This is, in fact, a slight eye blur to the citizens of Serbia, because we had to bring this declaration when we also brought a declaration about Srebrenica. Only then would she be valid and only then could we say that we have condemned all war crimes. This is how the resolution serves the ruling majority to justify the adoption of a resolution on Srebrenica and to justify the adoption of a humiliating resolution on Kosovo to the UN before the General Assembly. They adopted a resolution dictated by the EU, which was later praised by Hashim Thaci. When he praises the Serbian resolution, then we all know what it looks like and what it is. This declaration was delayed because it was brought much later, several months after the adoption of the Srebrenica resolution. We should not adopt this resolution, but the parliaments of Slovenia, BiH, Croatia and so on. Parliament, so-called false countries of Kosovo. So this declaration is incomplete, pale, written on only two pages and I think it would be better if you hadn't suggested it. It is also unrealistic, particularly in point 2 of the declaration calling on the parliaments of the countries of the former Yugoslavia to condemn crimes against the Serb people and to respect Serb victims. You all know well, and they have made it clear to us that they will never do so, and don't be distracted that their parliaments will ever talk about crimes against Serbs and respect for Serbian victims. We all know well that the war did not begin Serbia, but the war began by Slovenia, after which Croatia, then BiH, and during that time the criminal KLA prepared itself to start a war in Kosovo and Metohija. So they all had their Western mentors and Western secret services and NATO's patronage pact. Deeply respecting Muslim victims in Srebrenica and condemning Serbs who committed crimes in Srebrenica, I must say that we must always regret that we always say only Srebrenica and not Bratunac. There are no references to 600 victims killed in June 1992, so a year before Srebrenica, victims in about 100 villages around Srebrenica, Bratunac, Milic and Skelana. Naser Oric personally commanded these paramilitary forces by Muslim forces that killed over 600 women, children and old people. It can be called genocide, because it wanted to exterminate a part of the Serb people who lived in those parts. Of course, all this does not justify Serbian crimes in Srebrenica, even if they were committed for revenge. We kind of forgot all "Glass" and "Storm." We forgot that Croatian cannons, Croatian soldiers were firing cannons at refugee columns after the Storm. The people on tractors, with the basic things they picked up from houses that were running towards Serbia, were exposed to the artillery fire of the Croatian Ustasha army. That's what we're talking about. We forgot what happened to refugees from Croatia and after "Blash", and especially after "Storm". Several hundred of them came to Serbia. Few came back, mostly old men, and even those who returned, they experienced nothing but discomfort, and many of them were even killed. There are no words in this declaration about refugees or displaced persons with KIM. The second point of the Resolution says the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses regret and solidarity with the victims of NATO bombing and confidence that peace and stability rest in respect of international law. This is just a lack of courage for the right name to call what happened to us in the 1999 NATO bombing. It was a terrible war crime against the civilian population. Of course, you probably didn't want to qualify him because you think he wouldn't take us into the EU because of it or maybe you wanted to give Mrs. Hillary Clinton a gift to the man who ordered NATO bombing and NATO crimes to the NATO Pact in Serbia. You're wrong. That's not why we're being rejected by Europeans. No one loves a people who don't appreciate themselves and who don't respect themselves. No one likes a people who can't stand the courage to call the truth a real name, and the real name we have to call what they did to us during the bombing. I'll list only a few of the worst NATO crimes committed by NATO representatives. They called that aggression "Merciful Angel", but it was best formulated by NATO Air Force Commander, French General Jofret, who, giving statements "France info" and "France International", said "Air has been ordered to destroy life in Serbia". More than two and a half thousand people died in aggression, over 30% of them children. I won't mention their names from the piettes to and respect their parents. Over 10,000 people were badly wounded, over 40% of them children. 33 hospitals, 480 school institutions, dormitory and kindergartens, 66 bridges, 23 train stations and railways, 16 roads, 50 transmitters, 35 power plants, hundreds of factories, thousands of destroyed houses. There's a bombed train in the Gredile ravine. About 50 civilians died. You don't know the exact number, because a lot of people are missing, their bodies have never been found. All oil plants in Serbia, RTS, were bombed when workers who were doing their job peacefully died. What bothered them with the bridges around the New Sad? Well, they were hundreds of miles away from Kim. Even the Serbian cemetery in Vitina and Pristina was bombed. In Pristina, the Serbian cemetery was bombed five times. I guess they had a problem with dead Serbs, too. We were bombarded with forbidden tape bombs, bombed with impoverished uranium, and with graphite bombs, the Serbs were left without electricity and no lighting. Kosovo and Metohija are a special problem. The KLA started crimes there, but also with the mentoring of its Western allies and allies from the NATO Pact. After KFOR and UNMIK arrived, 360,380 people were expelled, more than 280,000 Serbs and Montenegrins, and 1,010 people were killed, including 888 Serbs, 75 Albanians and 45 members of other national minorities. 924 people were wounded, of which 867 Serbs, 20 Albanians and 37 members of other national minorities. 936 people were kidnapped, of which 860 Serbs, 42 Albanians and 34 others. We remember the "yellow house", Dnevnik, a memoir by Carla Del Ponte about the extraction of human organs and the sale of human organs of persons kidnapped and missing, and more than 250,000 Albanians from Albania came to KIM with the silent consent of KFOR and UNMIK and settled in abandoned Serbian apartments and Serbian houses. They were released from The Hague and Ramush Haradinaj and Fatmir Ljimaj. Ramush Haradinaj was released because there were no witnesses because they were all killed on his orders. He's in custody again, but I have no doubt he'll be released again, because he was their ally back then. Fatmir Ljimaj, a war criminal, for whom his colleague Bekim Mazreku spoke and spoke of his crimes, which I will not quote here, because they are very difficult for both ears and for all other human senses. Many mass graves have also been discovered, a mass grave in Klečka, and thanks to the brave investigative judge Danica Marinković, then Radonjicko Lake, Ugljare near Gjilan, Volujak, Malishevo and others. Since 1999, since the arrival of the international forces in KIM, I am sorry that no one has mentioned it today, 156 Serbian churches and monasteries and several hundred Serb cemeterys have been torn down or seriously damaged. It is not recorded in the history of mankind that one nation destroys another people and defiles holy places, cemeteries. On all this, gentlemen of the ruling majority, there is not one single word in your declaration of condemnation against the Serb people and citizens of Serbia, you have reduced all crimes against the Serb people to only two pages. The declaration is incomplete, pale and not worthy of the victims of the Serb people, nor is it worthy of a single tear from their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45292	12 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45293	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the adoption of this declaration today is no contest in patriotism, it is not a pirate night, nor is the country's Olympics in which we compete to throw stones off our shoulders to our neighbours and countries in the environment. Today we make one resolution and we make a full contribution to efforts and efforts to ensure that crimes are never forgotten, that crimes never happen again, but above all, we insist on all efforts to ensure that all criminals are brought to justice. After a grand declaration of condemnation of a crime in Srebrenica, with full right, we can expect, demand and demand the parliaments of other states to bring a declaration of condemnation against our people. Declarations don't measure crimes. Declarations don't count victims. Declarations don't write history. Declarations don't revise history, as some claim. Declarations were due to historical events and many in this hall today who spoke about the Declaration and many who had narrated over the fate of the Serbian people were in the position of government, had an absolute majority in this parliament and the possibility of bringing that declaration. Here, citizens of Serbia, their declarations - white, empty paper. So when they were in power, they showed concern for the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens, they have one rhetoric when they are in opposition, have another rhetoric when they are in power. Care for the Serb people when they are in power is expressed for the Serbian wallet and the Serbian people's wallet. These people who have narrated so loudly over the fate of the Serbian people today are directly guilty and responsible for the fate of the Serbian people as it is. He knows the history of the Serbian people, but he also knows the history of the human race of such examples. However, the history of civilization does not know the examples of someone falling asleep as a cannibal and waking up as a vegetarian. That wasn't there. Anyone who finds any dirt on this declaration, anyone who wants to share the victims with the first, second or third victims, is mocked by those victims. Anyone who has failed to share the victims with the first, second and third-row victims should answer to me, the Serb from Kruševac, in which is the difference between the Serb from Livna, the Serb from Banja Luka or the Serb from Banja Luka, the Serb or the Serb from Prizren or the Peća, from Knin, Leskovec, Čačka and Kruševec? The mother who lost her son in past wars, the sister who had lost her brother, the children who had lost their parents, those were the victims of the front row. These people don't care where they are or how they died. They're interested in justice, and they want justice, and they want their punishments to be ironed out. Some who spoke in this victim's room would have been best if they had kept their mouths shut or if at least they had their heads down when we were talking about the victims in the previous wars. Some who mentioned Slovenia must know that it was not the Serb army that fought there, but the JNA that was attacked by the territorial defences of Slovenia, and the JNA were both Serbs, and Croats, and Slovenians and Bosniaks. Of course we insist that those crimes are responsible. You know, some say this declaration, especially the Srebrenica Declaration of Conviction, is a shortcut for the EU. There is no shortcut for the EU. This declaration and the magnificent Declaration of Conviction of Crimes in Srebrenica are a fruit and a desire for us to express all feelings and solidarity with all victims, solidarity and compassion are something that human beings separate from other beings on the planet. That's what separates people from inhumans. We do not share sacrifices on the victims of this generation or on that generation, nor do we place the executioners as executioners of that generation or of this generation. Those who say they are not going to the EU crawling, naked and barefoot, on their knees, must know that they are not going to the EU or backwards. It is not going to the EU that one day you will stick the poster "Safe House for Ratko Mladic", the other day from the stands and watch the US Embassy and other embassies burn in Belgrade, and on the third day you run to those embassies to shake hands with diplomats for wearing a European suit. You don't go to Europe so someone doesn't know the difference between 6,000 hooligans breaking Belgrade and two million citizens defending their election victory on October 5th. Those who threaten to severely punish anyone who dares to attack Serbia may remember how cruelly they punished the attackers who attacked us when they were in power and remember how they defended us, and I remember, so I ask them not to defend me anymore. I'll defend myself. For the end, every 22 April in Serbia is marked by a series of convenient events on the Day of Remembrance of the victims of genocide committed against Serbs, Jews and Roma in the Independent State of Croatia. It's also a day of memory of the victims of the Nazi occupation during World War II. Jacob Matijas is the name of a man, one of 107 men who broke out of the Jasenovac camp. Here's what he said at that memorial: "We must not forget about the young, because of the generations that come to them never to return it. When I told my son about the experience, I told him – he loves everything, help and be honest. Let us allow our differing opinions to be crossed. That's why we shouldn't be enemies." Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in front of Republika Srpska's parliament in Banja Luka, is a monument titled "Topola of horror". The "Topola of Fear" reminds of the terrible crimes committed by the Serb people in Jasenovac, the Roma, Jews and other anti-fascists. The "Topola of horror" also warns of this "Topoli horror" Gordana Kuic said: "This tree record is suffering. It's not warm pain. It's the reader of our yesterday and the tree of the Serbian Nebula. This "Topola of horror" dried up in 1978 at the mouth of the Una River in Sava, and there were thousands and thousands of people killed. "It will never dry our people's memory of innocent victims and this declaration that we bring today is our warm pain. She was planted by other hands, not our hands, and the hands of those of us who will vote for her keep that warmth from forgetting. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the DS and the ZES coalition, for keeping that warm, that memory clean and clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45294	Eight minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, would you like a replica of the presentation of MP Srdjan Milivojevic? Right on the line, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45295	If you did not recognize that Mr. Milivojevic spoke of me, I did, and you decide if I do not have the right to reply – I do not. I'm used to all sorts of things in this democratic Serbia of yours. Mr. Milivojevic was in my discussion, and he didn't say his own. Mr. Millyvoy, it's not just the gold you're saying. It's not only democratic what you do. It's not only magnificent this point when you talk about it. We didn't come to the peasant Olympics. We're not here to kick. They are not our discussions for underestimation and they are not, Mrs. Komic, for grading by other MPs. You do it wisely. Who is Mr. Milivojevic to evaluate my discussion? What did I tell him today anyway? Did I look at him while I was talking? What kind of way is this? You wait until you finally attack the opposition's MP for what he said. You had your story. You repeated your story from the Srebrenica Declaration. It's all the same, and again the attack on the Serb people, and the attack on us who disagree with this condemnation of crimes against Serbs. You're doing your job. Who's bothering you? Let me tell you something, Mr. Milivojevic, one of the leaders of the hooligans on October 5th was you. Whatever fate you prepare for those you call hooligans, prepare for such a fate. You set Belgrade on fire. You have taken from this congregation everything that is valuable. This assembly hasn't been adapted today. You took the weapon from Mother Jerosima, from the police station. You were the leader of it, Mr. Milivoevich. Where did you get the courage, where did you get that heart and soul to call someone a hooligan, to call someone a hooligan? Your entire political life has been hooliganism.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45296	People's MP, please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45297	I'm really sorry, I may be speaking a little excessively in effect, but really if Mr. Milivojevic hadn't set the Assembly on fire, he'd never be involved in politics. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45298	The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45299	The Honorable Chairman, I really think he's a injured member of 107. Inadmissible insults have been made here. This is the level of communication that, however free speech is interpreted, is inadmissible in the National Assembly. I ask you not to allow such a thing or to give a warning to those who abuse the congregation speaker so that in a totally inadmissible way you will insult other MPs. Who is he to measure who is the second People's Messenger?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45300	There is no violation of article 107, but it is interesting to hear in the debate that one MP does not have the right to assess the discussion of another MP. It is the essence of parliamentaryism, to exchange arguments by underestimating each other's discussions. Since MP Tomislav Nikolic has apologized for speaking in effect, we will then mean that the emotional reasons leading to the effects have led to a misjudged assessment of whether or not any MP is allowed to assess and assess the discussion of other MPs. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or do you want a right to replication? Right to the replica of the People's Parliament of Nadia Kolundjia? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45301	Just to clarify something, if that really is the essence of parliamentaryism, put it in the Rules of Procedure. You forbade the Rules of Procedure from speaking to other messengers, which is why I acted. No, I don't think I'm anything high in the sky compared to Mr. Milivojevic. I'm an MP, to whom he must not address your Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comic. He is obliged to talk about a subject that is on the agenda, and you are obliged to warn him whenever he does not talk about a subject that is on the agenda. On the agenda is not Tomislav Nikolic, it is in your heads and your nightmares, but indeed, the point is not called - to discuss what Tomislav Nikolic is saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45302	People's MP, he didn't mention you. If he did, I'd interrupt him and warn him there's no direct address. Your request for a replica was a little surprise to me, because I think the whole discussion could have gone without a replica. The MP spoke of politics. That's allowed by the Rules of Procedure. Look at the stenogram, in one single word he didn't mention the name of any party or the name of any MP. Careful listening would save us all a lot of emotions that lead to effects. National MP Bozidar Delic has a word. People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, I am advertising Article 107, because my dignity as a MP, especially from that unit, that part of Serbia's territory where I come from, is really injured. Mr. Milivojevic, in Slovenia, regardless of what was then called the Yugoslav People's Army, was killed by a boy from the Mataruska Bane who was killed with a hunting rifle, a tangerine, when he climbed into a helicopter that had no ammunition. Imagine what it's like for his parents, when you say it wasn't the Serb people's deaths, that they were members of the Yugoslav People's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45304	People's MP, I ask you not to abuse the rights you receive for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to listen carefully to what other MPs say. I ask MP Miroslav Markevic not to throw it away. Today, I have already issued the warning measures set out in Article 103(7) because of the opinion of the MPs that they can abuse the right of the position of the first member. The MP did not say in any single word what you were offended by, which means either you did not listen to the MP, or you consider yourself to be entitled to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to receive the word when you cannot receive it, so I give you a warning from Article 103(7). National MP Bozidar Delic has a word, followed by MP Aleksandar Čotric, and this is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45305	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have calculated today at the opening of the debate that it has already been eight months since the first attempt to make a declaration of condemnation against the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia into the assembly procedure. Seven months of public promises that the declaration is over, completed and the text is about to be brought in. A number of parliamentary committees were held with this declaration on the agenda and no consensus was reached on the matter. Why is that? Are the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia masochists who have such a negative relationship with their own people, his sufferings, or is he in the middle of something else? Never in this congregation for all this time has there ever been a question that all crimes should be condemned and that all criminals deserve to be found where they belong. From the very beginning, such an opinion has been among the majority of Serbian citizens. But what have we done eight months ago in this congregation? And today, at the very beginning of the debate, it was mentioned that almost all MP groups had delivered their declaration to the National Assembly at the time. A number of these declarations were proposed here today as an extension of the agenda and, as expected, they were rejected. The DSS and SNS declarations were not mentioned. When I think about it a little bit better and connect this today with the events surrounding the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration, it turns out to be a bit of a symptomatic break-up at the time of various Serbian state officials, starting with the president of the Republic of Serbia, where Serbian citizens and citizens convinced us that no one pressured them with regard to the Srebrenica Declaration, which, as you remember, was adopted here with only one thin majority. That's when we told you to open Pandora's box, make a big mistake. The SNS has offered a declaration of conviction of all crimes. The basic question, very briefly today and then, is – why is not one declaration condemning all crimes? The text of the resolution was so well balanced and certainly acceptable to the vast majority of parliamentary groups, but it was not even taken into consideration. If she had been taken into consideration, I'm sure you'd have just reached that consensus you're looking for. A vast majority of MPs would vote for such a text of resolution. Today I am sure that this was not done for the reason that the SNS resolution was not good, but because the text of the Srebrenica resolution was your homework which you got from your employers and which you solved in the way that we all saw, with one ordinary majority. In this way, you have done enormous damage to your people and citizens of Serbia. That first wrong step you've taken right now has led us to discuss the second resolution all day. If we had brought a resolution like we suggested, there would be no need to discuss this resolution at all today. We of the opposition, especially from the SNS, then warned you of the possible consequences of this resolution. It is known that the opposition's word is otherwise respected in this assembly, it is also known that the amendments to the opposition are going on when it comes to the laws. Serbian citizens are witnesses that when you do not adopt our amendments one year, in six months or in a year these laws come back to work. I'll go back to the declaration. The way you adopted the Srebrenica Declaration, you wanted to admit it or not, it's precisely about the fact that there are victims of the first and second order, and this today's declaration just wanted to confirm that the crimes committed to my people are second-class crimes, that the victims of my people are second-rate. It is simply unacceptable for me and I find it unacceptable for all MPs of the opposition, especially SNS MPs. Since, gentlemen, it is a cynical requirement in point 3 to other state institutions – insisting that Serbian victims have the same treatment as the victims of other peoples, and that the perpetrators are equally responding. Gentlemen, you have hereby admitted that Serbian victims are treated differently in front of international institutions and that criminals are not processed properly for Serbian victims. However, what is our right to seek such behaviour from other state institutions if we here in the Assembly did not respect that principle first because the existence of two declarations says that all victims in these premises do not have the same treatment. This principle that all victims have the same treatment in this particular congregation and these two declarations have violated and that we have the right to ask others to adhere to that principle. This resolution is someone's day-to-day political need, certainly not the need of a Serb people, surely we will find a small number of citizens who in 1999, who are otherwise the most serious crime, a crime against peace, will be able to subdue under "pity and solidarity with the victims of NATO bombing", as said here, practically at point 2. Gentlemen, NATO bombing is a crime that lasts. It does not last until tomorrow, it will last 4.7 billion years, as many people will die in Serbia and in KIM from the bombing. Therefore, crimes exist as long as there are victims. I've calculated that by the time the threat ceases or the risk decreases only by half, there should be 188 million generations to live. Let only one man die in every generation, so I guess that says what the situation of the crimes committed by NATO pact in our country is, and that's all, undermining. Many people have already died in Serbia, and the number of victims in KIM since NATO aggression has already exceeded the number of victims in the 1999 conflict itself. I myself witnessed NATO crimes, unlike most of you, because personally on April 15th and May 15th, when the Cypriot refugee columns of NATO bombers were attacked, I took part in taking care of those victims. In one attack and another, between 80 and 100 civilians were killed, and more than 100 civilians were injured in both attacks. Some of these are Albanian victims, we and then we didn't see if they were Albanians, because we, our army, showed them first aid and used our blood reserves to save those lives, even though they are then and today, and I always say, all victims are the same, we've proven it a hundred times, but then let my people's victims treat themselves just as I treat the victims from other peoples. It is also difficult to find a Serbian citizen or a word of justification is hard to find because this declaration did not find a crime committed against members of JNA in Slovenia. That's what we discussed at the president's college, and that attitude once entered this declaration, and I can only now see that it's gone again. From all ahead, it is clear why the SNS cannot vote for such a proposal declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45306	The word has an emissary, Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, members of the SPS within the ZES parliamentary group in the voting day will support the adoption of a proposed declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. The war conflicts that were waged in the former Yugoslavia, as well as in the Republic of Serbia, ended 11 years ago, but their consequences and how strongly they still feel today, and unfortunately so will be in future times. Recently, it announced that only a few days ago had ended the First World War, which began nearly 100 years ago by paying off the last tranche of war reparations by Germany's France, which was attacked in the war. I hope that in these Balkan areas, the conflicts that are led will not have such a long outcome and such an epilogue, and that actually adoption and these declarations will mark, at least at a symbolic level, the beginning of the end of the conflict led by the end of the last century, and let this declaration and the declaration we adopted this summer, about Srebrenica, also be an incentive to parliaments of other countries to act in the same way or the like. We condemn the crimes against our people and citizens of Serbia in the last wars, but we must also refer to the crimes committed against our people in World War II, especially because, with Jews and Poles, Serbs had the highest number of victims in this greatest conflict in mankind's history. I must remind myself that the camp Jasenovac swallowed 700,000 Serbian, Jewish and Roma victims, that it was the third camp during the Nazi era, behind Auschwitz and Buhenveld, and that it was monstrosityless, that it was on the ground so-called. Independent countries of Croatia also existed a children's camp in Jastrebarski, the only such camp in the history of war so far. However, in order for the present-day declaration that we will adopt to get its life-saving and its full meaning and meaning, we SPO MPs propose that the relevant regulations, the laws adopted under this document, be implemented in the future and the following activities. We believe that there should be a memorial centre dedicated to the victims in the capital city and that within that monumental complex there is also a museum that will remind the relevant artifacts of the victims of World War II and the last war conflicts, that this memorial centre is set up by the example of Jad Yours in Jerusalem or Tsitsernacaberd, a memorial centre that exists in Yerevan in Armenia because they were also victims of the great genocide in 1915. I think it's particularly important that all the names of the victims be pointed out in that place, that by then they write and determine the basic data of each victim, because only in that case will they be credible and have a purpose for why someone gave their life for freedom, if remembered, and if generations remember it. It is necessary to establish an appropriate state body that will be in charge of the Serbian government, which will deal with the list of victims, in co-operation with relevant scientific institutions, but also with individuals; my predecessors, colleagues from the SPO, mentioned some of them, such as Nemanje Devic, who listed the victims as an independent initiative. This should be the job of the state, the relevant institutions that will be equipped and financed for it, and to collect for each victim data, name, last name, date and place of death, and basic biographical data. Why is that significant? Because we need to determine the truth that will be based on historical facts, or material structure, and to present it to the local and foreign public as well. The cost of such a state body, in addition to collecting data, their systematization and processing, should also be to develop in educational work with young generations the importance of tolerance, respect for human rights, the control of hate language, the apparition based on historical construction and facts, the development of peace initiatives and anti-war moods. To this end, it is also important to organise international conferences, exhibitions in the country and abroad, which will shed light on facts about Serbian victims through an objective approach. Also, this topic should be represented in school and teaching programs. A colleague, Srdjan Milivojevic, mentioned April 22nd, is the day of memory of the genocide victims. On that day, the last group of prisoners in the infamous Ustasha camp in Jasenovac committed the final breakthrough and 700,000 people lost their lives in that place, and only 100 were saved. So, that day we should at least for one minute everything in this country stops to honor those victims. It's a good thing our country's top representatives honor the victims that day, taking garners to monuments of genocide victims at the Old Fair, next to Sava, in Belgrade. On that day, schools should begin to mention that day and what it really means for our people. The state should also in various ways encourage the creation of scientific and artistic works that speak of the crime of genocide against our people. I must also mention that I am obliged to give recognition to some of the members of the Croatian people who have strongly, artistically and in a very brave manner talked about the crimes of Croatian Ustashas against innocent Serbian civilians in World War II. To mention the magnificent poem "Jam" by Ivan Goran Kovacic or the remarkable scientific work of Viktor Novak "Magnum Krimen", which speaks of Ustasha crimes in so-called "The Magnum Crimes". NDH, and Gordan Zafranović's documentary "Blood and Ash Jasenovac". Speaking of works of art, I must also point out the novel "The Knife" by Vuk Draskovic, published in 1982, which talked about decades of hidden genocide which during the Second World War against Serbs committed Croatian and Muslim Ustashas, and the communists of all the nations of then-Yugoslavia, above all Serbian, unfortunately all seemed to collapse on this work and on its author. But the saga of the great crime against the Serbian people was then declared heresy, for blasphemy. These jailers were answered by the writer in the following way: "Those who hide the crime are ready to repeat the crime." These words in the present time do not require any interpretation. To conclude by pointing out that the purpose of the declaration is not and should not be to hurt old wounds, but to heal them. This Parliament and all of us in it believe that we are deeply committed to this goal and that we will be guided by the words of His Holiness by the restful patriarch of Serbian Mr. German, who said in Jasenovac: "We forgive but remember".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45308	Ten minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45309	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and other citizens, I want to say Roma nationalities and others, have been historically known and in all history it has become known that serious crimes have been committed against the Serbian people, genocides against the Roma people, over the Jewish people, which has recorded the entire history. The historians have recorded everything that's important, but that's the past, we should certainly look to the future. The former JNA never had an attack doctrine, she had a defensive doctrine. Never did Serbia and the Serb people and the Serb army attack others, but they were constantly attacked. Whenever they were attacked, in World War I and World War II, and in this third civil war, Serbs had the most victims, as well as other minorities. When we see that during the civil war, all sorts of things happened, that they were supplied with various weapons, with Kalashnikovs; why were they arming themselves with the Kalashnikovs? To kill the Serb people in Croatia and in other republics. The planes also came to Ljubljana, both in Sarajevo and in Zagreb and supplied them with the most modern weapons. We know that our army was also found in barracks, that they were without water, and without food, etc., so they even threatened them, but we have to forget all this, there's been some normalization of the situation. If we look at it, the biggest invasion in 1941 made Germany into our country, there were great victims, there were major crimes, but there was reconciliation, there was normalisation, we had diplomatic, economic and other relations with both Germany and other countries that were in the invasion of our country. Surely we can't deal with the past, it has to stand in history, we have to look to the future. Why? In order for our country, both our people and our generations, to live better, to adopt a culture that will give better life and standards in all areas of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens. We need to establish one balance, to establish diplomatic and all other relationships that this people and this country will feel. All I can say is that all the crimes the Serb people have committed have been committed by the Roma people. Even we have suffered double crimes, that the Roma over whom crimes have been committed in Kosovo, their names are depicted as being Albanians, which are Roma. It's a crime. However, our country, a democratic Serbia, certainly will not rely on the past, we have to do everything that is better for our citizens. I believe that the Democratic Left should support this declaration because it is the interest of our country and our citizens. The Democratic Left of Roma will vote for this. Everything that has passed is no longer to be returned, we should not discuss it much, but we should look for a better life for all our citizens in the democratic Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45310	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the conclusion of a single search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representative for the Proposing National Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45311	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People, despite the fact that this debate today has once again shown fundamental differences in understanding between us what a responsible policy is and whether each individual human life is worth enough not to have a policy that will lose it, I am pleased with the fact that no one has essentially disputed this declaration. What you could hear is actually an attempt to make an interpartial score on a subject like this. Many of the data presented here just confirms that it is necessary for Serbia to find a way to, not forgetting its past, not forgetting its victims, processing all the perpetrators of the crime, strongly move forward. So all these discussions for me were just confirmation that we were doing a job that was invaluable to Serbia's future. Some have spoken of themselves, not this declaration, and I believe that citizens will recognize it very well. The truth is that we have made no distinction between the victims, that we have not excluded any crime and have not forgotten any victims, because this declaration refers to everything that happened in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. I want to say that citizens who expect us not only to show that we have compassion with their sufferings and the sacrifices they have suffered, but that they expect us to expect the institutions to do the job so that the victims can get their satisfaction and that the perpetrators are responsible for what they did. That's why I think the advantage of this declaration, because its essence is in it, not to compete in whom it is harder and more sorry, but to give support and ask others to have the same relationship with Serbian victims as with their own. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to accept the amendment tabled by the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the amendment relating to the preamble of the declaration to indent 2. Therefore, this amendment shall specify one failure made in the basic text of the declaration and therefore, on behalf of the Proposer, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45312	On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, today, October 14, 2010, starting at 8:15 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. At the same time, I remind the MPs that immediately after the vote, after the second session of the Second Regular Session is concluded, we will begin and open the third session of the Second Regular Session, whose beginning, as I have informed you, is delayed after the conclusion of this session that is under way. I repeat, the vote is at 8:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45313	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly, so please insert the cards into the units of the electronic system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 128 MPs in the hall and that there are conditions for us to continue our work. We plead on the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search on the proposal for a declaration, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, all 133 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a declaration in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Radenkovic and Djordje Milicevic. A representative of the proposing People's MP, Nada Kolundji, accepted the amendment during the search. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The text of the Amendment Declaration was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica. Please make a statement. Of 133, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The text of the amendment's proposal was tabled by a group of nine MPs from the New Serbia parliamentary group. Please make a statement. None for, of the 133 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a declaration in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia in general. Of the 133 MPs, 133 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conviction of crimes committed against members of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. We move on to a decision by the Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement may be required, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without reviewing it, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 14 October 2010, at 11.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. None for, of the 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, at a session on 14 October 2010, at 13.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, seven voted for the injury. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. (The session is closed at 20.25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45314	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF 14 October 2010 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 20.25 hours. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-14-0.u45315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, so there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session exclusively for Thursday, 14 October 2010, so within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, the proposal to merge the debate and the proposal to change the order of the agenda points. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 129 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on noise protection in the environment be put on the agenda. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2010. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 September 2010. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the proposal on the agenda of the Weather and Hydrological Action Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2010. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 129 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2010. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2010. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2010. I'd like to make a statement about that. Of the 129 MPs, 126 for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Radojko Obradovic suggested that the proposed agenda be complemented by the agenda item – draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, which the government submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 2009. Does MP Radojko Obradovic want a word? (not present) Please make a statement about it. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192, paragraphs 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Health Protection and the Proposal for a Decision on the Plan for the Development of Health Protection of the Republic of Serbia; a joint review on the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Environment, the Proposal for the Law on Strategic Impact on the Law on the Environment, the Amendments of the Bank of the Bank, the Proposal for the Law on Changes and the Law on the Law on the Environment, the Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Proposal for the Law on Changes and the Law on the Protection of the Nature, the Law on Changes of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Key, the Proposal for the Law on the Security of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Does the MP, Mrs Gordana Komic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote, Mrs. Komic. Of the 129 MPs, Mrs Comic's proposal voted all 129, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal to change the order of certain points. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the order of the agenda should be changed from the sixth point to the end. The order of the first five items of the agenda remains as in the proposed agenda submitted to the MPs. Does the MP Gordana Comic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda, a proposal to merge the debate and a proposal to change the order of each item, on the basis of Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Agenda: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, 2. Proposal for a Decision on a Health Protection Development Plan for the Republic of Serbia 3. Proposal for a Law on the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020, 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act 10. Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act 12. Proposal for a law amending the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, 15. Proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo, 16. Proposal for a Law on Delegations and Foundations 17. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to KBC Banka, a.d. Belgrade, New Credit Banka, Maribor d.d., EURObanK EFG a.d., Vojvodjanske Banka a.d., Novi Sada, HYPO - ALPE - ADRIA BANK a.d. Belgrade and ERSTE BANK a.d. Novi Sad and Banca INTESA a.d. Belgrade, UNICREDIT BANK Serbia a.d., RAIFESEN BANK a.d. Belgrade and SOCIETE GeneralE banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, which made a joint offer, 18. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of SOCIETE GeneralE Banka Serbia a.d. and UNICREDIT BANK Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society "JAT AIRWAYS" a.d. Belgrade, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the security of the Republic of Serbia's concession loan to the People's Republic of China, 20. Proposal for a law confirming the State concession agreement for the Project System NUCTECH-tem for the inspection of containers/vehicles between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Chinese Export Import Bank as a lender, 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Supplement to the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance in customs matters, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic, with the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic, 24. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Republic of the Czech Republic on the mutual incentive and protection of investments signed on 13 October 1997, 25 October 1997. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Malta on mutual incentive and investment protection, 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on trade and economic co-operation, 27. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the field of tourism, 28. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on Economic, Technical and Scientific Co-operation, 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, 30. Proposal for a Law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt 31. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations of the prevention of elemental accidents and of technogenic hawaries and the elimination of their consequences, 32. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the fight against crime, 33. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation, 34. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the establishment and functioning of a common contact centre for police and customs co-operation 35. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs Regulation in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, 36. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We continue work on Tuesday, October 19th, at 10:00 p.m.
