ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44263	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am interested in this point, where the proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures may not be sufficiently informed, but we do not seem to have the necessary documentation to decide. Mrs. Djukic, can you hear me? I'm talking to you if you don't get me right. I get the impression that there is no accompanying documentation for the proposal for this decision. In what sense is the accompanying documentation? Well, the government proposes the president and these members, meaning the president and four members. However, we must in some way have proof that the conditions laid down in Article 102 have been met. The law on public procurement that proposed candidates meet the conditions as a judge of the municipal court and that they have a three-year working experience in the area of public procurement. We didn't get anything for it, we just got a draft decision with some brief explanation of the decision, but we don't have any proof that the conditions have been met. It's a flight shift again. Mrs. Djukic, I came to you, not to Mr. Novakovic, but to you. You are in charge of the legitimate work of the National Assembly. I'm asking you, is this the only point that came to this point, or is there something else? Last time we got extensive documentation with the work biography of the proposed candidates. That's when you pulled that off the agenda, not you, but the promoter. I wonder if it's just this paper that we need to be served by the government to convince us that these persons, with these names and last names, are the ones that are needed on 6 October 2010, in order to seduce some order in public procurement. If only this was delivered, then today we can't talk about this agenda point. If someone interprets that the government only proposes, and that it determines whether the conditions are met, then we are disabled to control the government as it does, whether it works well, whether it applies the regulations well. As the government applies regulations, we can see for ourselves every day. Today, Bozidar Djelic wrote that he is better off in the last ten years. I have no doubt that Djelic is better. If that's the criterion, to simply force us to discuss this subject in this way, then you need some further explanations. I don't want to enter the names and last names of these candidates. You remember the last time this motion for a decision was withdrawn, that the president's candidate was changed, because he works there at DB, he didn't do anything, he blocked everything. Now tell me what is the guarantee that this will liven up - the Commission at the Public Procurement Administration, the Commission as an independent body, etc.? This is superficial. It's about this commission under the Public Procurement Act. As far as these other points are concerned, these are two points, a list of candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission and a list of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Commission. That's where you gave the candidate's biographies. One candidate wrote in his biography that he represented Serbia abroad for four days at a seminar. There's a lot of stuff. We don't need to be surprised. It's October 6th. October 5th was recorded in black letters in the history of the Serbian people as a day of evil spirits, and on October 6, 2010, it was 10 years after October 5, 2000. There was an absolute obsolescence of criminal prosecution, and you came to power on the story of criminal prosecution. Please don't call anyone else in history who was in power, because you had 10 years of all the leverage to finish the job. Absolute obsolescence, now anyone can sue you for slander. I'm the first one to sue you for slander. I've been waiting for you for ten years. For ten years, you were able to pursue, you did, you didn't finish anything. Now comes the lustration of the chandelier. The Empire strikes back, October 6, 2010. Just laugh. The last one to laugh is the cutest one to laugh. As far as this Competition Protection Commission is concerned, I would not tell you about newspaper texts, whether Beko is a brand for refrigerators and TVs or whether it is that Beko, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, who was once a privatisation minister without portfolios, etc. Is he a subject when it comes to protecting competition, because for days, we've been burdened with a lady's story that she's behind this. Someone can believe it, someone can suspect it, someone can pretend to be Tosha, someone can say turkey dots don't work. It's probably a group of oligarchs, please, no more tycoons, because that doesn't mean anything, we have a group of oligarchs – rich people who want to be in power. I previously pointed out to you that extremely wealthy people in Serbia were created in the period 1992-1993, when they successfully breached sanctions because the state was under blockade, at the borders of the OSCE. Not everyone past those lists could import goods, so there was a group of extremely wealthy people. This is the seventh set, and I need to draw your attention, because some of them fell off in the meantime, this is the seventh set that is the nominal owner of that healthy capital in the Republic of Serbia. To protect their capital, they are not indifferent to the fact of who will exercise power. Since they don't trust people who exercise power, they infiltrate their own people into all the structures of the government, so you can do one flash poll in each ministry and you'll know exactly what kind of man who's employed in the ministry works for some oligarch. Miskovic has his own service, Beko probably has his own service, probably Drakulic, probably Nicic, all these Peconi, Ciconi, as you will, as Serbia is a country of nicknames. So everyone has their own infrastructure, and you're acting as some kind of government as something serious, etc. I want to talk about it. I would like to remind the public that, for the past ten years, in this diabolical approach to the EU, at all costs, and at the cost of employment, and at the cost of economy, and at the cost of social protection and at the cost of health care, you have focused on one goal that has no alternative, that is the EU. You want to promote these values at any cost. It's your policy. The results of this policy are catastrophic, because they are based on the principle that everything is sold, that it is divided, that the state is in charge, that citizens are constantly dependent on someone who is in power. This is also the subject of the Competition Protection Commission and of the Commission under the Public Procurement Act. Why? Because it's not the first time we've had these commissions. It exists a long time ago, as independent state bodies that regulate something, which control the government, which prevents an objective, impartial way for a competition in RS territory to take place according to pre-known rules, to encourage competition, to prevent monopolies, to prevent monopoly, etc. It's a beautiful story that doesn't mean anything in practice. It is well processed through advertising and in other ways to be drinking to people, but the real background is to create, retain the positions of those who have already positioned themselves or those who have always been positioned. Since it's October 6th, it's wintertime, time to prepare for winter, both children and family, everyone expects these two commissions to do something epochal, and something epochal that they could do is make it cheaper and cheaper for citizens and consumers. There's one big problem that's an impossible mission. Why is it an impossible mission? Because it's not so imaginary. The creators of this operation didn't imagine it that way. Just to remind you, a few years ago, there was a wave of something -- that's free stock of a thousand euros, remember? That sounds nice. It's just amazing that a man doesn't take it. It's just amazing that a man doesn't accept it. After a few years we saw that the euro actually devalued and a thousand euros of free shares are 1,700 dinars. Why am I telling you this? Because money, both paper and metal, is something that only has its paper and metal value. How much does a alloy cost, what does that paper cost? That value we give that paper money is based on some deal and something we believe. So the citizens rightly believed that the 1,000-euro free shares were worth a thousand euros, but they are worth 1,700 dinars. So it's dangerous to trust DOS, DOS in any kind of aggregate state. It is now said that energy prices will rise, I am speaking from the Commission's view of protecting competition. If energy prices and citizens can't pay, the government has an extremely good asset -- it should defeat the euro, knock down the euro. If the government has reduced the euro's free shares to 1.7 dinars, take down the euro's value today to five dinars and then the heating will be cheaper, the milk will be cheaper, everything will be cheaper. You won't raise the cash. A man with 25,000 dinars will be extremely rich. Pensioners will not need those 5,000 dinars at all, as 20,000 dinars will be able to buy 2,000 euros. So you will defeat Europe, prove to the citizens all the benefits of EU fluids you want to install here. You can do that job. If you've devalued the euro when it comes to free action, why don't you do it with real life? All you have to do is squeeze some NBS governors, offer a tremendous amount and finish the job. If you could make a surplus one year, next year's deficit, it means it's all real. It's all possible. This is the EU's liquid. Is there anything our Competition Protection Commission can do? He can't, and we all know that. Why? All independent regulatory bodies or independent para-state bodies, which you transferred something from the authority of the state to work in an objective and impartial manner, had the first problem of the body being built up, to find space, to provide them with phones, to secure the service, to start working and then in the paper to launch an attack on these institutions unless they comply with the Supreme Authority. You use these organs selectively. If Luke needs to be squeezed, they'll write like that, and judge and decide. If Luke doesn't need to be squeezed, then Luke will be glorified. It's a similar situation with city building land. It's a similar situation with public procurement. Since public procurement has been introduced as a concept of RS, practice has said more is being earned incomparably by bidders. Why? Because the whole process of public procurement is simulated, so Pero, Djok, Mika and Laza come, which are supposed to be competition, and they are essentially with a purse, mobile phone, tie and a copy of the Business Register and business is closed. To prevent this commission, especially this expert who represented the state at some seminar for four days, and it finds it as the main criteria for persuasion – why we should choose it, excuse me, please, you can tell it to someone in kindergarten, but I don't think those kids would believe you either. It's October 6th. He should be done with it. What's to end? Let's changle the chandeliers. Why? Say, draw a line in 10 years what happened. You listened last night, they admit they were bringing money for the coup. They're admitting people. Everyone who's involved admits it. Why? Maybe she's working on her conscience or they want to scare the citizens even more. I don't know, let the citizens judge. Infalliblely, I can not only assess, but also draw conclusions. When something comes from DOS, regardless of the aggregate state, it's bad. It is not a function of improving life in Serbia. It is not in the function of establishing and refreshing state institutions to do better by law, it is just something contrary. That's a bad thing. If the concept here is that the foundation or spine of the economic, economic, social and social development of the Republic of Serbia should bear 10 names, 10 families, 10 oligarchs, then make that clear. Not that we have these marriquettes. We have oligarchs who finance and what is in power and what is in opposition, so that they will always be protected. Part of the opposition, of course. Everyone is running away from us because they know the Empire is fighting back. He's been taking a hit since October 6th. You've lost 10 years, and for the fridge it's 10 years. White technique, you know? The manufacturer of white technique says – we guarantee that this can be useful for 10 years. Although they gave you a guarantee for only a year, but that product for 10 years will certainly be used and we provide you with a service. When it's 10 years, maybe the product lasts a little longer, but the manufacturer doesn't guarantee it. As I can see, your producer from abroad is not guaranteeing for you. There is no greater insult and there is no better representation of the EU to the Serbian public than what you have done in 10 years. The EU's fluid is organised crime. It blooms in Serbia. EU fluid is a job loss. It blooms in Serbia. EU fluids are a reduction of the country's social competences. And it's the EU's liquid. That's what you said. How is it in the countries of Western Europe? From 60 to 62 years old, the retirement border is rising, Europe strikes, demonstrates, Serbia is silent. In some countries, wages in the public sector have been frozen. He jumps Spain, rises, demonstrates, respects himself. Serbia is silent. Serbia must remain silent because it has such power. The government got the job and she's finishing it. This situation must change if we want to live, if we want to be dignified, if we want to develop. For ten years, it's been ten years since the fall of the Serb people all over the seams. Why? Because it is the EU's focused goal. It was said in 2001, then in 2004, so in 2015, who knows what date you're going to bid on, and the citizens are wrong when I believe you. I thank you, Mrs. Comic, for your patience to hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44264	Right on line, MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44265	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I use the time provided for the replica, since absolutely, by the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic, who is otherwise a very educated MP and a man who really knows the procedure, and tends to abuse what he knows well, did this to this occasion. He asked me a question, Tuesday and Thursday at the beginning of the session are time periods when it is possible to ask the president of the assembly the way he did today. He didn't do it at the time that was scheduled to ask questions. The second question he asked me, I must say that unlike him who obviously knows all the areas and no doubt has the most confidence in him, I believe that the professional services of the Assembly and the Government are doing their job quite correctly, and that in relation to his specific question, they have done so this time. My answer is that there is really no reason to suspect that we have prepared the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law on the Assembly and the need to be properly informed. I couldn't accept the function of a government spokesman, since I'm the president of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44266	National MP Zoran Krasic is registered in the electronic system. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44267	Mrs. Comic, I don't want to use it all the time just to cover it up. I just asked the question -- is this paper, that's A4 on two sides, all we got on this agenda point? I'm saying it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. You heard the answer yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44268	I remind the People's Parliament that you are obliged to specify which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, if you are given the right to be told on the basis of your first attitude that you are talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I also remind you and all other MPs that Article 107(2) does not allow direct address to other MPs and that this is the basis for speaking criminally, so I ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. MP Dejan Nikolic, chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, proposes the act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44269	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called at the very beginning, but it's not too late now. On the basis of the Competition Protection Act, the president has opened a competition for the president and members of the Competition Protection Commission. Both presidents and members of the Competition Protection Commission, on the basis of Article 23 of this Law, elect and resolve the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Committee of Resorbs. In this case, it is the Committee on Trade and Tourism. A total of 20 candidates reported to the competition itself. Our obligation under the Rules of Procedure was to conduct direct talks with all candidates. On this occasion, I must also express my satisfaction that interviews, i.e. direct talks with candidates, become parliamentary practice. On Friday, a few days ago, on October 1st, the Committee held two sessions. The first, where we spoke with 19 of the 20 candidates. One of the candidates didn't come to talk. Another, where, most of the votes, we have established the lists of candidates and sent them to the Assembly by emergency procedure, because we believe that the Commission should start working as soon as possible. I must point out that no MP, not from the opposition, not from the ruling coalition, pointed to a breach of procedures during the election of candidates. I must also point out that this session of the Committee, as before, has been absolutely open to the public. Finally, I must thank all the members of this committee for their hard work, and I call on the other MPs to support the draft assembly committee with votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44270	Before I ask whether the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak, we inform the National Assembly that the mandated representative for this unique search on the agenda points we are currently discussing, for the LDP parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44271	Thank you, Vice President. I will only talk about the selection of new members of the Competition Protection Commission as a member of the Committee on Trade and Tourism. It's clear we passed a new law last year. It is clear that the government has done everything to block the work of the commission so far. In the end, remember, gentlemen, that the contest for the election of members was launched in November and was then completed in January. We only decided last week on the president of the commission and four members. Formal-legal, all 19, except one, meet the conditions of the competition. Do they meet the legal requirements? That's the question. However, with such agreement where, except for me in the opposition, everyone else was from the ruling majority, you raised nine hands for the new president and four members. It's clear that you've agreed to make it your choice. You can say that the Commission's work so far has been unsuccessful for two reasons. Because no decision has been given in court. You can also say that it is unsuccessful because back in the past few years, while the current Commission has been working, Serbia's position, or Serbia's rank, in terms of corruption, has deteriorated. But you can't avoid responsibility for this situation. Simply, the Commission has been working with three members for a long time and simply, although it has made some solutions – who is now older or who was right – the Commission or the courts, I would not go into it. In any case, you've taken responsibility, but when you look at biography and you look at it, conditionally speaking, something that's important for a member of the Commission, which is knowledge, it means that it has theoretical knowledge about the field of competition and monopoly protection, and experience, and yet it's actually done something in practice, and not only was it a teacher who teaches it, but by those criteria, because I didn't have a second criterion, you probably had an agreement in the ruling coalition to choose these people, I had to read the biography and that I define myself on that basis, because I don't know any of these people. When we look at these two criteria - knowledge and experience, I would say that you have not made the best decision, especially when it comes to the President of the Commission. But I'm only talking about it again, so maybe you know something I don't know. In any case, when it comes to the new President of the Commission, there are two ambiguities. Mr Nikolic says - no one complained about the procedure. That is true, but when you look at those initial papers, which have been on my hands for almost a year now, because this agony of choosing new members of the Competition Protection Commission, you will see that the president you have chosen has originally applied only for a member of the Commission and not for the President of the Commission. Later, the fact is, there's a piece of paper that she's advertised to want to be president of the Commission. What I resent to you and what I think, from my point of view, is that all five members of the Commission are lawyers. I really think that when it comes to this area of competition, protection, monopolies, of those five members at least two must be economists with experience. I'm not saying that there should be no lawyers in the Commission, but I don't think that all five should be lawyers, especially the President of the Commission who has not been elected, who has no experience, and who has no knowledge of the area to deal with. The third problem that arises and which we, members of the Committee, have had during a brief discussion with all the candidates to determine that the three members you have selected are university professors, who clearly said in a conversation with the members of the Committee that they do not want to give up their university careers, which is logical. But if we see that Serbia is increasingly and worse standing on the country's ranking list when it comes to competition, then working on a body like this, such a significant commission, as a gig, certainly does not promise that something in Serbia will improve. I understand that someone doesn't want to give up a university career, but I really do think that a job in a body like this has to do and is looking for a full man. These are my principal objections to this procedure and choice. I don't want to offend anyone, I have my own rank list. Two of the best on my ranking list, and I graded knowledge and experience, you didn't choose to be members either. Well, it's your will, you're most of them. But this example also shows your relationship with regulatory bodies and with independent agencies. I really think that here, as many times as we have, and when we've passed these laws, you're sort of formally doing something we call European affairs, but you're essentially tearing down those institutions. As you tear down parliament, you also tear down the reputation of these institutions in this way if they choose, without public support, it's just a form. Look at the example, a funny example yesterday, when we discussed air traffic law and ports. Let's talk about air traffic now. Your minister comes in, proposes the law that those in Brussels are looking at harmonising the law with European directives, butchered. Then the government proposes 40 and some amendments to fix it. Then your minister comes into the debate in principle, on which the government has submitted 40 amendments, says the law is good. Wait, if the law is good, what has the government submitted 40 amendments? He may be good with those 40 amendments, but in principle he can only say – the law is bad, they ripped our ears out in Brussels, we'll fix it. You see, this is unserious and there are many examples where you refer to something that institutions that need to bring us closer to Europe, and we will not, just in the words that we are for Europe, or we are passing European laws that are not often European, such as the Law on Trade, the Consumer Protection Act, come a long way. It's a major grudge. Basically, I wouldn't do anything about it, and this is my chance to talk about this, this commission. You've decided how you decided, no one can stop you from doing that. You will bear responsibility. What if in a year Serbia falls even lower on that scale where it does not protect competition, or on a scale that shows how strong the country's monopolies are. You'll probably say, "Now it's their fault who's on the committee." But you chose them, and so unanimously. I prayed to Mr Nikolic, so at least tell me what those who voted are, not others who also met the conditions of the competition or these former members. But no, it's obviously just a form - let's finish it. After all, it's a good thing you're done, this is really going on since November last year. The Commission has slept on two members, on three members, through the Commission President. Who can determine exactly what it is, I don't want to go in there. But the relationship to these institutions by someone who calls themselves a pro-European government, who really wants to, and we would love to believe that you really want to, is not correct. It's not a single example. There are examples of others where, as I say, instead of trying to raise those institutions, even if they were occasionally against the government or making problems for you, but on a long time, it's the only time in Europe, otherwise we'll all be talking about how, here, Europe conditiones us, they're looking for something again, and Mladic, and Kosovo, and it's basically all up to us. It's all up to us in Serbia. We will go towards Euro-Atlantic integration with the capacity that we are able to go to. But when you do this, you show that we are not able to move quickly. As a result, it can only be a compromise of the European idea, further disappointment with what is called a better life and membership of the European community of people. Those who are against Europe are expected to do so, but those who generally get votes in pro-European politics, if they do so, work against themselves, and work against the future and end up working in favour of those who are truly against Europe, so now they can say or cannot say it. I sincerely hope you're right, and that I was wrong when it comes to choosing this commission, it will show time. Unfortunately, if I'm right and you're wrong, we'll all pay the price. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44272	Eleven minutes and 30 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Dejan Nikolic, a proponent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44273	Mr. Ostojić, you said that all candidates meet the formal legal conditions of the competition and you asked whether they meet the legal requirements. Article 23 The competition law provides for the conditions of the competition to be called. The conditions in the competition were legally conditioned. The two things we cannot separate and responsibly argue if they come out of each other, if they have formally-legally met the conditions of the competition, it is normal that they have met the legal requirements. It's true, I've had your papers in benches for almost a year. I can bear responsibility, or the Committee should have responsibility for the work of this Assembly, but where is the responsibility of MPs who did not want to participate in the Committee's work, because otherwise we would have chosen this committee long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44274	Right on line, MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44275	Mr Nikolic, first of all, you can't blame the opposition for blocking the Committee's work, because the Committee was meeting from the call of competition until the decision was made, so by spring many times and we've made various decisions and laws, you've never put it on the agenda to elect members of the commission, so that, until the change of the Rules of Procedure, the opposition has had most of it, we don't come from the opposition, break down the quorum, so you say, we don't let the commission choose. You never put that on the agenda. There's this, I was taking these biographies to the sea, it's all ripped out. Secondly, when I say whether they meet the requirements, so I'm sorry, the competition clearly says 10 years of the relevant internship. Secondly, there is also knowledge, published works etc. You won't tell me that the unselected judge in the general election, which you elected president of the commission, has papers, and was judge of the District Court in Belgrade, a litigator, has works in the field of competition. It's simply not true, there are other people who have come forward who have these works, have some experience, have worked at the Federal Foreign Trade Ministry on these jobs, etc. I'm just saying that if you're interpreting it as formal terms, I agree, but the fact is that these works are one of the conditions. If it's relevant experience, then it means not any experience, I was a judge or I worked at a university of fine arts, so I have 10 years of experience. That's what this is about. I say, it's your decision, you took responsibility, I was the only one there, I voted, in my court, for the best candidate, it's not yours, except for one lady you chose, who was highly ranked with me, the third. It's not a dispute. I voted honestly for that lady even though it's your suggestion. When it comes to the President of the Commission, I think something happened. And the fact is, she didn't pick up the president first, so you talked her into it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44276	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44277	Thank you. In particular, on the work of the Trade Committee, where the subject of the discussion was the selection of members and president of the Competition Protection Commission, my colleagues Zoran Babic and Veroljub Arsic will speak, I apologize to them for having forgotten the new practice by hand to circle for or against, so they are the last on the list, but we will learn this rule that sets us at the end. I want to talk in principle debate on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group about the fight against corruption and the Assembly as a place and aim to achieve these two commissions, because with the right to public procurement and abuse of monopoly or cartel position the reasons for the growth of corruption or the existence of corruption or such an ugly ranking of our country for ten years, which means that we didn't have any genuine intention to fight it, or we didn't have good mechanisms or we didn't realize how much corruption was a significant problem. The congregation is an important place and not just because it is located in the center of the city. We show it to the guests when they come, and it's where they happen, and it's marked by all kinds of jubilee, and celebrations, and there's a lot of people who aren't fit. It may be celebrated more than ever, in the opinion of many of us and undeserved. But the congregation is seen as a significant organ when you do not display it. It is a reminder of its importance, and today's topic and laws remind the Assembly of the importance of the process in control of corruption, through the independent bodies it should choose and report to it. The departments of the Assembly, regardless of what some want to degrade it, take a very important place in the Constitution, in the laws, when it comes to the relationship of the Government, the President and the other authorities to the people, or the work that these authorities or representatives are obliged to carry out. However, the pathways of this highest representative body, which we as the Assembly, from the direct will of citizens to their representation through us and our reaction and influence on why we are sitting here are quite complicated, and complicated to the extent that the citizens we represent here sometimes because of some, not all of us, literally disowning the representatives of our will, we have sickened their democracy, and it turns out that this Assembly is born of the people. The job of all of us is to show that we're fighting for what we promised them. Some of us do, and some of us forget. I will remind you of yesterday's jubilee, and on October 6th, I will remind you, just about these laws, which were spoken of, why these promises were not fulfilled, and why the people of this assembly were considered to be born. The problem that is as important as that the people do not realize that this Assembly is his, is that the regulatory bodies, which this Assembly chooses, which should report to it, experience the Assembly with a toothless lion, who is very often, even openly ridiculed for the role it officially plays, and cannot actually execute. Everybody generally finds it pointless to fight because it is a general trend, someone said corruption comes from Europe, yes, there is, and there, that regulatory bodies such as these are common practice, that they are European standards, and I openly claim that many of them lie. They lie when they say the standard is corruption, and there's corruption there and there's nothing we can do. Because the standard of fighting corruption implies freedom and the possibility of this government and this Assembly to find appropriate mechanisms to fight corruption and that its regulatory bodies and independent authorities are indeed instruments to fight corruption. The Assembly normally discusses topics, as a rule, which are important to the majority of citizens and they should essentially mean reaching a higher standard and peaceful life in the environment. How much does the congregation really do, and who is to blame? Dear analysts claim it is much cheaper to like Brussels and bribe the elite, political and financial, than to provide citizens with a better standard. And we are witnesses to this policy, and that is why our independent and regulatory bodies are icaban, because in the laws that we have passed here, the ruling majority did not prescribe a precise procedure - and what happens when one of the members of the commission loses the right to membership under any law? You refused to specify the work of those bodies under legal and legal conditions. What's interesting? The public's work, as something very important in the fight against corruption, which I will talk about and as the achievements you promised and failed to fulfill, implies that man has no privacy in the most banal sense when he's an MP or performs some public function. But are MPs here speaking against your way of fighting corruption secured the public of work or was it done as last night, when you announced to us from the pay phone that RTS will continue the delayed transfer of this session at 2200 hours? At 11:00, commercials start and a scientific interview is announced. Indeed, the topic was very important, it was about diseases, it was after some cultural contributions, but it was a question of why one of the ways to fight corruption, with abuses in the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Flight Control Agency, and the way Luke "Belgrade" requires a new law to fight the monopoly, that is, this competition that the commission needs to solve, you left to discuss around one or two in the middle of the night. Is that the will of the Director of Public Service, is that an agreement by someone who wanted to give us the impressions if we watched the interesting testimony of President Boris Tadic on the First Programme, I don't know and it doesn't matter, but when it is said here at 22:00 hours, the word must be held, not because it is moral and human, but because it provides the public of work in the fight against corruption and in the work of this body that is at the heart of the city, the highest legislative authority and which is in all bodies, in all laws, from the Constitution and beyond, prescribed as one who is first and has to precede the law. There are those who speak when they want to, on the topics they give themselves, but we here that impose the topics and who must always be ready and talk, and we want to do our job responsibly, we should at least have the right to what we say be and allow the citizens to hear. What do they need to hear? On the occasion of yesterday's anniversary, "Transparency of Serbia" reminds you that in 2000, the G17 NGO then brought a document that committed itself to restoring citizens' trust in the country, rooting out corruption in administrative authorities and public institutions and to classify itself in the order of European states. "We have the opportunity to replace the current corrupt politicians with legal representatives and the state must no longer be the protector of the unemployed, criminals, and a front for the personal wealth of the state and party officials. "In the first hundred days of the government, you promised, and all of you at that time, to fight corruption by passing anti-corruption laws, to impose dragonish legal penalties for all abuses and malfeasances with state, social, private money and property, that those actions aimed at achieving profits and other benefits would be sanctioned specifically by using public functions. What did you welcome the jubilee with? By legalizing here in the Assembly by performing double functions, by performing the double and incompatible functions that the Constitution forbids, even though you said in time that even the gifts that someone who performs the state office will be recorded, registered in public view. As a country, Serbia has long ratified anti-corruption conventions, joined GREECE and has pledged to publish information on public officials' assets, but the publication obligation exists only since 1 January 2010. You made a commitment in 2000 to place property cards from officials, their relatives and all those who participate in the government, and there were short ones, but they were downloaded from all the sites and only the nearest neighbours know how they lived and how their five-octobaric contemporaries, the presidents of the municipalities, those whose names we want to forget, those whose affairs are still being run or not by court disputes, who are in drawers and who are waiting to be removed from drawers. I would like to draw particular attention to what has been called dragon penalties for those who have abused state, social or private property. Since that promise of being a dragon penalty, we have an increase in the number of detected, processed, but unfinished affairs, and I will not mention any of these participants, not giving them the right to exclusiveity, and there are many in various and colorful mafias in all areas. The illegality in public procurement since 2002, when introduced, in corruption, monopoly abuses, cartel behaviour, they say that the story of fighting corruption all the time for this government was a flag waving to election purposes, to the greatest extent possible, and that you know the results when they were created – when conflicts were created within the existing authorities, and before the formation of some new governments were taken out of the folder drawers and only then spoke as when spouses were divorced, so dirty laundry in front of judges, public, neighbourhood and relatives. Then all we had was a chance to hear who was doing what, who was using more authorities. What I want to pay particular attention to and what remains uncovered and the Public Procurement Act, and this Anti-Corruption Commission, is that, in addition to the increased number of abuses and corrupting affairs, there have been quite specific abuses of state resources through uncontrolled subsidies, under the cover of stories of increasing the number of employees, while falsely showing and removing from the list of unemployed, and all to make the results bigger. And that there is absolutely no adequate control, not only have they filed legal documentation as members of the commission, but whether it is purposefully used all of what is from the budget that we all approve of only some, and it is approved by some very special politicians who want to skip the censorship, to be third, but it is not them who allows them to do so, and we know who is the pillar of this coalition. The DS, in Serbian language, allows Mladjan Dinkic to benefit from the budget subsidies for personal promotion and that these subsidies are not controlled, that the conversion of the claims is the basis for the abuse of funds and that this morning we wonder how the "Energoproject" could be returned to the state again, and why, with some other company, although it has fulfilled the contract, the contract is broken and reprivatisation is carried out, and why is some others, who do not pay in the national cash register wars to which they are committed in the privatisation processes, still looking through the free? Does it hurt your hands to look through the fingers of those who don't work according to the contract and by the law? Let us also add that the process of privatising social and state-owned enterprises is indeed not without unfounded attacks, very well established and very specific and precise loss figures in these processes. It is obvious that it is not adequate to follow the fulfillment of contractual obligations and for this someone must bear responsibility, not moral, not just this kind of condemnation that we are talking about, but a perfectly precise legal responsibility that is prescribed. We are also witnessing that these and these bodies, which were supposed to apply anti-corruption laws, and independent state bodies, were in fact faced with a series of non-road solutions, which were deliberately so formalized that they could not be applied, that they lacked resources to work, that they lacked equipment, that they lacked space. And although I don't put the DRI directly into these two commissions that need to deal with public procurement and the protection of competition and it is in some way, and in the most direct way, the body that needs to fight corruption and these are only mechanisms for this goal. The fact that a Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures has not been established to this day only speaks of the fact that millions of tenders have passed in the time of the applicable law. Let me remind you, the last composition to control these and such millions of abuses has been illegally chosen. When I say, quote someone who deals with this, at the level of internationally recognised standards and institutions, I quote the latest Transparency of Serbia report. Undoubtedly, major progress in the area of fighting corruption has been made by the adoption of a Law on Free Access to Public Information, which has changed the attitude of citizens and state authorities, it said. However, it seems a little funny when someone, such as the fiscal advice we are trying to form, expects when one of the state authorities does not provide the requested information, to receive it from the Assembly. How many MPs and parliamentary groups and only the leadership of the Assembly of Roads were faced that it had to be through the Protector of Citizens and Information Commissioners to receive information, for example, about salaries in some public agencies, which had completely given birth to the state that formed them, which pays them to live, to charge us expensive taxes and to spend their money on their own. The Constitutional Court, which would have to be the sun in this legislative sky, in which it is always seen and acted according to its recommendations or orders, is also defecated, because when he was as the most significant controller of decisions he was supposed to help fight corruption, my dear gentlemen, you have buried him with a huge number of unconstitutional laws, which they have to deal with and cannot do the work for which they were elected because too much material comes from this assembly and from this ruling majority. We now expect that an independent body, which must have political miles as a background, as a backgrand, would say those who love foreign language, expect to work independently and expect that in a report like this, which I have only in principle and croquet pointed out as a fight against corruption, which is a story of fighting corruption rather than a real fight against corruption, should help. I want to believe that these people will do it, but when you hear from my colleagues who's elected and you're trying to convince us today that we should fight the consequences, not the causes and laws that brought us as economic, commercial and other bad policies that we both have cartels and monopolies, you're not going to convince us of the honesty of that struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44278	MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44279	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing two very important points, which are the selection of the President and members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the President and members of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. When it comes to the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, counterpart Krasic made an observation this morning that we did not get the biographies of the proposed candidates, which the president of the Assembly replied that everything was in line with the procedure. Of course, I can't discuss the names of people who don't have a word, their professional biographies, their education and previous work experience, so we're not allowed to discuss these proposed candidates in a valid and quality way. Especially given the fact that the candidate for president of that commission was already a candidate somewhere in March, if I'm not mistaken, here in the Assembly, that there were certain problems in his biography and that under public pressure he withdrew his candidacy himself, that after six months we would choose the same man as the president of the commission, without getting his biography and his biography of the other candidates. For this reason, I will not even talk about this commission, but I will talk about the election of a president and members of the Competition Protection Commission. Both commissions should have been elected a long time ago, given that Serbia has been falling increasingly on the scale for the past few years when it comes to corruption, when it comes to protecting competition and when it comes to Serbia's monopolies. What is interesting for the selection of the Competition Protection Commission is that the competition for the president and the members of that commission was launched in November last year, that it was changed and complemented, that the whole process of the competition ended somewhere in January of this year, and that we are now choosing such an important regulatory body. I have to look back on something I was talking about when last year the Competition Protection Act was amended. At that time, the DSS parliamentary group proposed amendments to maintain the state of the previous law on how to elect a president and members of the Competition Protection Council. I would remind you that according to the previous law, the president was elected by elected members, and the members were proposed by professional associations, the Scientific Society of Economists of Serbia, the Association of Lawyers, the Chamber of Lawyers, the Chamber of Commerce, and were proposed by two candidates, of which the Assembly chose one member of the council and then it could be said that it was indeed an independent regulatory body. By amending the law, the candidate proposes the Assembly Committee on Trade and Tourism, and then it is already questionable how independent the body can be of some political influences, as it is proposed by MPs and elected by the ruling majority MPs. Of course, these amendments were not accepted then and the rest is to be chosen according to that principle, and therefore, among other things, we have a situation that we haven't been able to choose this very important body for a year. I am the deputy president of the Trade and Tourism Committee, I took part in the work of that committee, I was against the election of the President of the Commission, and I did not declare myself on other candidates. I must say that there have been various statements in the paper the past few days, so one of the newly elected members of the Committee said the opposition was guilty of not being elected earlier. I am responsibly saying that this is not true, since the previous president of the Committee on Trade and Tourism has resigned, or is no longer an MP, I, as vice-president of the Committee, even though I am from the opposition, have scheduled sessions when it was necessary to consider certain drafts of the law. I've scheduled a session for the election of Mr. Nikolic's new president, and I think that co-operation was correct. The ruling majority has never put on the agenda the choice of this commission, I suppose, due to the inability to agree between themselves, and in addition to that, the fact that the very specific composition and structure of the Trade and Tourism Committee is the ruling majority, since of the nine members of the ruling majority, seven members of the DS, G17 plus withdrew their representatives prior to the election of this competition commission. We had this session of the Committee of Talks with all 20 candidates, we had their biographies, and I think there were a lot of quality candidates of these proposed ones. In particular, I think that it is a completely inadequate solution for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, given that it formally meets the conditions for it to be prepared. However, in Article 23. The law on competition protection states that the President of the Commission and the members of the Council are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy, with at least ten years of relevant work experience, who have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the relevant area, especially in the area of competition protection and European law, and who enjoy the reputation of an objective and impartial personality. The lady who has been proposed for the President of the Commission has spent her entire working life as a judge, i.e. a judge, judge of the municipal court and judge of the district court in litigation proceedings, so she certainly has no relevant working experience and no recognised works in the field of competition. Even these other four proposed members have better biographies than candidates for the President of the Commission. Mr Ostojic had already mentioned that there was a misunderstanding, as it originally stated in the competition documentation by the lady that she only applied for a member and later came up with a supplement to compete for the President of the Commission. A political agreement was probably reached in the meantime, and it was agreed to serve as commission president. What is also important is that all five proposed members are lawyers and there are no economists, and I don't think it's good, since it's about protecting competition, about monopolies. I think the commission should also be an economist. Mr Ostojić has already stressed, and I fully agree with this, that the work in this Council of the Commission should be professional, given the responsibility and the size of the work that the commission should be doing, not that it is another gig for some university and university professors, who will be doing so voluntarily and with some of their work. Due to all this, the DSS will not vote for proposed candidates to elect members of the Competition Protection Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44280	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44281	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to welcome the minister present at the session today. Here, today we are considering two commissions that are extremely important and should be looked at by citizens of Serbia when they hear that we will have commissions for two important resolutions, protection of competition and public procurement. However, commissions, like all commissions, all agencies, everything that exists for any control, serve only pro-forms, to cover some criteria, to show someone that we control everything, protect it, etc., but these are all party commissions, party people. Let's not say we have some protection. We don't have any. All of this that's being chosen and going through a lot of sessions, it's all something that's been seen, it's all people from the same circle that control each other. You, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, control yourselves. Everything that's a commission, protection, where there's no presence of anyone from the opposition, I don't think there's any point to what exists. Why are you afraid that one of the experts, and also the opposition, has experts from various areas, is present in one of the agencies, in committees, and especially in such commissions that are extremely interesting and where control mechanisms are very important? The opposition is a mechanism, a single system control regulator and sufficient is the presence of one or two of the opposition and will already have to work significantly better, significantly more honestly and significantly more responsibly. But you never gave the opposition the right to control something in power. Budgetary inspection, all inspections, all true ruling coalitions, of course and serving, and every report is being thoroughly controlled and then we go to certain institutions to show some control mechanisms for pro-forms. That's not gonna happen. You've seen for yourself how hard you're trying to control former governments, former officials, but you never thought of controlling current officials. They're protected. You make the law and you put into another plan a law that fights corruption, you pass a law that encourages corruption to preserve the government, so that we don't offend anyone. Because you know for yourself - if you touch any member or any of the officials of any ruling party, the government falls. That's why what you're doing doesn't make any sense. The Constitutional Court cannot rule. He had to drop the Information Act because of the great pressure of the European Union. By the way, we've been here for hours explaining that it's wrong, that it can't be adopted like that. We explained for hours yesterday that some law, on which you, as a government, submit 41 amendments, should be withdrawn from the procedure, completed and returned to parliament. But you can have anything. You can also make highways without public procurement, free contract. You and the Chinese can hit the bridge with the same free contract. You've got a lot of investment going through the free market, and no one can say what's really going on here. I'd like to ask Madam Minister, here's fair, give a committee of inquiry to this Parliament to check how many government officials or those at the highest state office around the government have private businesses working for public enterprises. Do you believe, now I'm not going to tell you that your coalition partners, partners who work here, have companies worth millions of euros without saying that half a billion euros is being transferred from private companies? It's a big brake for you to enter the European Union. Whenever you talk to banks, with EU representatives, they say – you think you use our credit funds and you wash and transfer into the pockets of your private, party people, etc. Should I now list the people who have hundreds of machines here who work all the time for the government? Do I have to list the people who robbed RTS, and that's why RTS is asking you here for three million? It's not an allowance to the one who works for the government, your high-ranking official and who's the boss of RTS. He turned hundreds of millions of euros, and this parliament is due to pay RTS three million euros, as it is a very important thing to pay, so that television broadcasts can be done. That's why those who film "wedding 48 hours", "I'm changing women" and so on. to get such a minute and make millions of these citizens who pay their subscription and who don't know how to survive. It's today's most modern robbery. You take international loans that big, and nothing happens. Are you aware that from your ministries, the most responsible people have private companies and run the tender business? I'll be forced, if you don't come to your senses, to control it once, to tax you here who does what in this country. I'm really gonna do it sometime. Those who need to control and they have private firms or are involved in certain jobs in such a way. Do you know how many of your members of the government have now become co-owner of companies that are privatized outside in the privatisation process? Do you know how many of your people, sitting in the most responsible places, have now taken part of the actions they have privatised in one insidious, corrupt way and in which this Serbia has been robbed? You don't know. Is anyone on the team today? He doesn't. Why is there no government records of these companies that have been done, robbed and made in such a way? Is it possible for a minister's brother to participate in a foreign company as co-owner of the company that invested capital here and without a tender to get a job worth hundreds of millions of euros annually, the aula capital of a foreign company is three thousand euros? Should I tell you the name of the minister and the name of his brother, that's what I was talking about? You're running away from the truth and then you'll make a pro-form committee, which here will hopefully give you befel, and then you'll write – the public procurement control committee has unanimously concluded that everything is in the best order, or for the protection of competition. Do you know there's a monopoly here at the store? Do you know who the monopolies are? Do you know who he's working with every day? Did you know that a few years ago, this monopoliesman brought a whole cabinet to the Ministry of Finance? You gave the minister, and the entire cabinet was monopolies. To remind only – Vesna Ginić, Vesna Arsic and others. He brought his directors and put them in the ministry, and that the entire state budget had one of the monopolies who was in Serbia and became the largest monopolies in a trade that no one could have. Now some commission, for God's sake, will go and say something. He can't say anything because these are party commissions, and there are no people here who can say something, and that's why I'm distracting you again that you have to let the opposition help you. You who are honest and honest in that government, and who are honestly and honestly willing to work, why are you afraid of the control and presence of the opposition to observe whether this process is okay or not? So I believe there's nothing out of this, and this is just a waste of time, we make some commissions, we increase the administration, and we make more and more expenses, etc., and no one can touch anyone. So no wonder they can't do much, there's a lot of this administration, there's a lot of corruption, it's evolved to the maximum, and there's nothing to be done right now. Don't touch this one, don't touch that one, this one's from this one, this one's from that one, etc. That's why we in the opposition repeat that the only chance is an election, because you don't have the strength to do it. Madam Minister, let me suggest, here you suggest that we here in Parliament make a survey committee from all political parties and deliver a report to you, honestly and honestly, and see that the individual equipment and techniques of your officials works 23 hours a day, and the state equipment in public enterprises works on average six hours a day. They don't sleep, they don't pour oil, they just do people, and they get paid off on an advance basis, otherwise the government falls, there's no way they can survive. You have to keep quiet and everyone has to bless it and that's why there's a big problem in Serbia. And prices build up. There's a monopoly everywhere. You have a monopoly in the biggest investments, and it's all a deal. Two or three private companies that agree with each other, service offers, everything is covered, and therefore our companies can't get any jobs when the financing is on the outside and when the bank is present to cover certain investments with its control. That's why you're resorting now to satisfy something. You don't need to resort and run away from disfellowshipping foreign performers, let them be involved. It is illogical that some stranger who comes here to Serbia is cheaper than our performer who lives in Serbia whose workers are from Serbia. It is illogical to be cheaper and impossible, but because of corruption, because of the problem, because of the assignment of certain jobs to people, the first ones that are inextricable, the second one that, according to various family ties, are working in this way, we will not get jobs and we will not get bigger investments, and big money is getting into Serbia. Large assets from the sale of enterprises have been spent. One great potential of the state has been exploited, and today we have more unemployed 200,000 people than we had five years ago. Is that logical? In the meantime, we sold giants like that so I wouldn't count the billions here. Why did the Development Fund have such mutilations and so many people under investigation, etc.? It wasn't working. These regional centres, these moanings, these ravings, those stories – if someone from the opposition put them on a thick analysis, if you find him a little something he's hurt. You forget you'll be the opposition tomorrow, maybe in a month. Then somebody's gonna take this whole thing apart. Never again have private firms been owned by individual officials but today. Some ministers have raped themselves so much. Do you believe, when I looked at some firms, if I didn't list them now, call the ministers who looked so that people wouldn't think that they were doing such a job, their sons, and then the prime minister, and then the estrada, and the children came in, and the children were playing around Serbia, so millions of people go, everything was regular, everything was in the tender, etc. Of course, now these commissions are just going to bless it, and we're going to be happy to pick a commission and say, "Here, another commission says everything's fine." So I ask you to cut it off, Madam Minister, and I believe in your fair intentions and your fair intentions. Here, let's form a survey committee here in parliament, so we can deliver that list to you, see who's doing bridges in Serbia, who's bridge performers, whose companies are, see who's doing the building, who's doing the wall, who's doing what he's doing, who's selling, who's getting the EPS, who's getting the NIS, all to get you a nice supply, and you can look at it a little bit, and see what kind of crime that's going to be. Now if you have the strength to suggest and only a mixed commission of positions and opposition can do so. Let's sit together. You're interested in us and you're interested in making it okay. Not to be blackmailed by individuals and said, "Just touch, the government falls." Let the government fall. It's not a big shame for the government to fall, so the other one to fall if it's necessary until everything's in order. When it comes to order, it will be much better in Serbia. So please, these commissions can't accept any of us from New Serbia. Only the commissions in which the opposition will be present. Let him be one opposition. Let him sit there. He'll let us know, so we'll take some steps, and you don't make your own commission, your own agency, your own control, do everything yourself, and then file a report to us, we're wasting time, and you're wasting this material. We know everything's gonna be okay. We of the opposition are offering to really help you. If you, as minister of justice, want a fight, a real fight against corruption, call us. We'll give you all the information. We've got all the information and we've got all the papers, so we'll give it to you. Look as a lawyer, as a minister, and if you say it's wrong – well done. If you accept that it's okay, then we'll be able to find a solution to that, to make this people and all of us better, to have a lot more money for the real things that Serbia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44282	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44283	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly refer to Mr Đuric's exposure, although he is not in the O.R. I must repeat and point out that it is true that we have extraordinary co-operation, me as president and he as vice president, and I see no reason not to be in the future. However, I cannot accept the Committee's responsibility for having debated the Competition Commission nine months after the completion of the competition. The only agreement that I could not reach as chairman of the Committee was not the Commission, but an agreement with some MPs to come to that session. We all know how committee meetings are being prepared and that is the only truth about why we are discussing nine months after the completion of the competition for the selection of members and president of the Competition Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44284	Thank you. Since none of the authorised representatives appear anymore, we are moving to participate in the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint single search. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Miroslav Markicevic is not here. Mr. Arsen Djuric answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44285	I agree that we have co-operation and that cooperation will certainly be of quality in the coming period. However, I must say that before Mr Nikolic was elected president of the Committee, given that Mr Djokic had resigned a long time ago, I had scheduled sessions to discuss various ratifications of some agreements signed in the field of tourism, so that I contributed to the effective work of the Assembly and the Committee themselves. I said it was certainly the Committee's fault, I don't think it was Mr Nikolic's fault, who was recently elected president of the Committee, but the ruling majority, because it was never put on the agenda to elect the president and members of the Competition Commission, because it was put in place, so that the opposition boycotted, then it could be said that the opposition was guilty. However, this has never been on the agenda, so it is certainly the responsibility of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44286	The People's MP Free Maras has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44287	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at first I would like to say that it is a shame that you are sitting here. I think it would be more logical for the Minister of Trade to sit here than you do for many reasons. Because this topic is much more about its operation, i.e. the detour under its ministry, that is, the law passed a month or two ago, by which competition, which was proposed by the Government, or the Ministry of Trade, is in fact a violation of competition. I think that when it comes to this issue, the key problem is that, regardless of all these conflicting opinions we hear between the president of the Committee and the other members of the Committee, it is neither the president of the Committee nor the other members. I think it's those who have these five candidates, or between this number of candidates these five proposed ones, delivered to us in this way. I think there was much more to talk about, and then I will support and why, amongst the parliamentary groups on this subject, it would be much better if there were 200 MPs behind one of these choices, than 126 or 130, or 127. It's not really our fault. Since no one from the ruling majority except the Committee president, you had the need to say anything on this subject, or on this proposal, and I can understand you, but I can't understand that no authorised representative or head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority has stood in any way behind these names, or to give an explanation why these names are the very names. What makes me say that? Because many of them really don't meet the basic conditions. I don't think it's enough to vote one law, choose members of the Commission or members of the DRI, or Protector of the Citizens, and then let things run their course. We have a lot of work to do to establish institutions like this, to give full support to such an institution. I think this is the right place to be given full support. I don't know how many MPs he remembers, but in the old building, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, we had one committee in which the President, then, the Competition Protection Council or the Agency, Mrs Bajalovic, along with members of the council, and the topic was the protection of competition, since LDP, especially in 2007 and 2008, pointed out and tried to get support in parliament to discuss the monopoly position of a company. Unfortunately, there was no hearing, but there was hearing from the Agency, namely Mrs. Bajalovic and her associates, who came to a direct question – whether there was pressure from ministers at the time in their work, made it clear that they did. These pressures are obviously continued and later and logically they will be, unfortunately for 10 years we've been in transition, which is not good, but logically, there will be such pressures, to stand together behind this proposal, but in this way it's impossible. As the mandated representative of our parliamentary group has said, but also from other parliamentary groups we have heard it, the person who has been proposed for the president does not really meet any conditions or conditions. It's not enough that she'd like to do something. I think it'd be a lot better if she was dealing with this subject sometime. Unfortunately, that's not the case. In this way, all MPs from the opposition who are against these proposals, or who will not vote for these members, will be responsible. This is what happens to us all the time in this congregation. Most often, the government transfers responsibility to the Assembly by passing the law, voting for it 126 MPs, and then we hear from the prime minister who says - I have nothing to do with it, the Assembly voted for it, regardless of what his proposal was. I think it is with intent that great responsibility is transferred to the Assembly, and in particular I think that MPs of the ruling majority who accept that responsibility on behalf of all of us are mistaken in one of these ways. Look at what the joke looks like, see that no authorised representative of the ruling majority is answering for a word. The deal was reached somewhere where we couldn't reach out and, unfortunately, we'll have to be there when it's voted, or even though we're against it, even though we won't vote for it, we'll be responsible someday. Once again, I'm very sorry that you're here, for reasons I respect you very much. I think it would have been much better if there was a minister of trade here and we could have a little talk with him on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44288	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44289	Dear President, Ms. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People and all the citizens who watch this television broadcast. My address, some say, will be a bit unusual, perhaps some political analysts will be seen as naive, since I am a member of the opposition party, so New Serbia. In part, this address, Madam Minister, will be addressed personally to you, asking for answers to some questions, and for reasons, I think you know because I believe that you, people say, are not professional, and my impression is that you are honest and honest. The address to Velimir Ilicawa was in that direction as well. We know well that there are a good number of people in the government of the Republic of Serbia who are honest and honest. Our political differences stand and will also be expressed in the next pre-election campaign, but we want to appeal to those people who want to fight and fight corruption, and to form a Competition Protection Commission, which will really do something and, in fact, give examples, companies, people who did not respect the laws of this country. Unfortunately, I have supported the last 10 years of several coalition governments. I know what coalition capacities and blackmail capacities mean. But someday one of you will have to talk, if for nothing else, then because of your coin that Europe has no alternative. Looking at public services and their programmes and the work of neighbouring countries, especially Croatia, whose work I am monitoring, which is a country that is a year or two ago to join the EU. One of the basic conditions on the European path is the fight against corruption. I understand that these bodies, that is, these commissions that are elected, should prevent this corruption and crime. In doing so, it should be said that corruption and crime in no country, nor in the EU, have been eradicated, but have been brought to one level that, I won't say, can be tolerated, I won't say it's acceptable, but can live with it. I think we live in a country where the degree of corruption is so high that it threatens the existence of millions of Serbian citizens. With that, I mean, I'm shocked, that it's been 48 hours since the former president of the Competition Commission at the Public Service was not a direct transmission, she said she was being threatened. She also led the man who threatened her. The next day we saw her statement in the printed media that she had been pressured by assistant trade minister Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic. He was here yesterday or the day before yesterday, Madam Minister, and I asked him to say the same thing. Not a word about it. So is this a message to the future commission? I'm not going to analyze these people who are obviously going to be chosen. Is that a message to them as well as how they should work? So, like these guys did. It has received threats, although, in practice, it has made no decision recognised in court, or some judicial authorities have not concluded that this is valid. She's got threats and pressures. If she got it, the man she pointed to said she had documentation that it wasn't true. Isn't the interest of the general public, first of all, I mean the Government, and first of all, the real estate in that government who are, truly, directly interested, and so are you, for what she said? No one pleads, no president of the Republic, no Prime Minister, no prosecutor's office, no police, no one. It's at least astounding. We have also had statements from the president of the Republic, who has reacted to some attacks on foreign citizens over the past few years, to some artists. That's all good. This time, one representative, not to say whether, in a narrow legal sense, the Competition Protection Commission is a state body, I think, if elected by the Assembly, one representative of the state body complains about the assistant minister of trade, the representatives of another state body, that it has been pressured. At the very least, a public prosecutor's office or anyone to plead. We will question even that sentence, and we will see. We are witnessing here that some MPs, including New Serbia President Velimir Ilic, were suddenly advertised by the prosecutor's spokesman, the College of Public Service, although no one, Madam Minister, knows what show I am talking about, I am now convinced that Jelena Trivan wrote this statement to the RTS College in public. None of them were there. When we are from a party, let me put it in a folk's word - oiled and made as we are not in media propaganda. When we asked the college for a statement in writing, you know what it is legal, it says – there is no statement. Of course he's not here, because none of the representatives and members of that college were present. When we compare it now how important it is, it was exactly how they wrote it in college, and from word to word it was all a lie, it turned out, and then Tomo Zoric, the prosecutor's spokesman, answered. And what happened, it's been a few months, of course there's nothing. A few years ago, with regard to Mr Velimir Ilic's statement about the Orasac celebration, we were contacted three days later by the prosecution's people. I can't say out of loyalty to these people, we've made a statement, we're going to question people, there's nothing out of this. This is political propaganda. Okay, if the status and position of the opposition in the Serbian state is such that, through the Public Service, some parties are belittled, they are banned from coming, so all citizens and members and supporters of New Serbia, as well as voters, are paying for it. Okay, let's let some party have a smaller rating because of that, it's the state of Serbia. But this is about the interests of hundreds of thousands of citizens. Because, apparently, this commission has been working under some pressure, and some state authorities, it could be an economic expert who could explicitly calculate how much less money in the budget. Not one state and its state authorities, the Government and the Assembly, as well as the local parliaments for corruption, because it is only a shame, indiscriminateness and indiscriminateness, so to steal from the peoples, but because there is less money in the budget obviously because of this corruption. We've been talking here, and mostly from the mouth of the president of New Serbia for a few months. Please write down Nuba's investment, or shut us up once and tell us – that's not true, or if it's true, then you have to do something, because a minister and his brothers are directly accused, so Nubainvest is a company from Slovenia, with an initial capital of 3,000 euros, got a job measuring tens of millions of euros without a tender. It wasn't a tender. If there was a tender, please appear at the press conference, in direct transmission and say – Mr Ilic, Mr Markicevic, the tender was, you were not informed. We've been talking here for months. These are very dangerous things. What kind of message is that? Then what will the citizens think? They'll think - crow crows don't take their eyes out. Regardless of our ideological and insurmountable political reasons, at least half of these people in the government are from ministers, officials, advisers, helpers, honest and honest people. I said the least. What do you want more than an opposition MP? Don't keep your mouth shut. This is how it turns out when you call yourself out of these congregation benches, you're all called. I repeat, you've been silent for 48 hours. That's amazing. Mrs. Dijana Bajalovic said her children were threatened as well. No one's responding, everybody's quiet. Does that mean she resented someone or didn't do her job well, or was she lazy or didn't come to work? All of these aren't reasons to be threatened. The other, Mr. Beko, is said of him, the man said he had the file, that it wasn't true what she said. So, it was supposed to react within two hours. Maybe the lady is angry that she won't be on that committee right now, so that's what she said. But the public has to be informed about it. She said that in Dnevnik, the most watched show in the 1930s at the Public Service. So someone had to react. I'm taking the opportunity, Madam Minister, to tell you something that amazes me, so the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the information goes that she has paid herself. It's possible it's legal, but that law isn't good then. You know, even at the biggest firm where the directors are powerful, they have big salaries, they've got a travel order signed by someone else, or by a financial director or someone else. How is it possible for her to raise her own salary? You know that you are informed that today the Court of Justice, that citizens will be deprived of their rights, therefore, to do some of the work they have in court because workers strike. That's what we saw this morning in the morning program. Why are they strikein'? They've got 16,000 to 20,000. So, I'm not for a catcher, professional people, especially at the head of such responsible bodies as the Supreme Cassation Court should have a big salary, nothing is disputed. Maybe that salary the media published, maybe she's okay, but I'm surprised she's raising her own salary. And in doing so, Madam Minister says - don't let me say what I know. What is this message to citizens, when the President of the Supreme Court, where citizens do their justice, where some of the lives are concerned, she says – don't let me talk? What does that mean? What kind of message is that to the citizens? I repeat, believe it or not, I have spoken to you most sincerely and I expect you to make known in these questions that I have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44290	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic has a word. Does anyone want a replica? Mr. Dejan Nikolic has signed up, an authorised promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44291	I publicly join Mr Markic's request that the competent authorities determine all the circumstances and alleged threats to the current commission president, Mrs Markovic Bajalovic. Only in this way will the state confirm that it advocates and provides conditions for the smooth work of independent authorities. As for competition and criticism that some of the candidates do not meet the conditions for the president or members of the Competition Protection Council, I must point out that all, or MPs who were present, and the MPs of the opposition also agreed on one thing – that only one candidate does not meet the requirements prescribed by law and competition. We never said anything about that candidate. We have pleaded on 19 other candidates who, responsibly claim to meet the conditions of competitions prescribed by law. In the end, some opposition MPs voted against the candidates that we have proposed, with the very statement for the candidate, confirmed the validity of its participation in this contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44292	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, preparing for this item of the agenda, I read an amazing statement from a fellow ruling coalition, who said that if someone was guilty, it was the opposition who obstructed the work of the Trade Committee and therefore this competition protection committee could not be formed within the legal time limit. This is a really amazing statement because a colleague from the ruling coalition obviously looks differently at democracy and opposition rights in this parliament than should be common. However, this statement has something true in it. It describes in the shortest possible terms the situation in this parliament, which from day to day seems less democratic because it constantly degrades or even restricts the rights of the opposition to become completely invisible. It's just fascinating to me how it's even possible that the government for each of its defeats, for every failure, has the courage to accuse the opposition, or opposition parties, who are at least by the ideas they claim are so far away from each other that they, at least some of them, are as close to the authorities as never before. Of course, even in such a situation, in which the opposition is the various changes to the Rules of Procedure, the devoid of decisions on the board's appearance, completely disproved, it is accused by the authorities that it is the only one responsible for non-forming an independent institution, whose sole aim is to bring free market economy to life in the biggest and brightest edition. It's really hypocritical to an unseen situation. I just have to say that by any chance the government was less ossion, arrogant and arrogant, this problem wouldn't exist as such, or even if it appeared in its very beginning, it could probably be overcome very easily and quickly. I think it's much more important here than the human resources we're discussing today, whether we've been in a situation, whether we have the courage to create such an environment in Serbia that independent institutions function uninterruptedly. We have had the opportunity to listen to many of them threaten in public and I must say, as long as such threats exist, unfortunately we cannot boast that we live in a democratic society because it is absolutely unimaginable for the true democratic order. I think that this second and third item of the agenda is much more important, and I apologize if I have made a possible failure in the order itself, but I mean the human resources related to public procurement. Public procurement is undoubtedly one area in which we meet daily with various irregularities and in which somehow corruption is most flourishing. The day-to-day problem in public procurement is that the bidder deliberately offers a lower price to win in the tender, and then through various annexes, the price is so strong that in the end it does not become doubled, but even multiple. A typical example of this is the renovation of the "Nikola Tesla" airport in 2003, where the purchase price was eventually several times higher than the one agreed. In Serbia, public procurement is spent around four billion euros annually, with an estimated 800m euros being poured out through various corrupt channels. I'm just saying this because I think the commission that needs to control this area is of paramount importance. But I don't think it's clear to my colleagues in power, simply because I have to remind myself that this law was passed in December 2008, that it came into force, it seems to me, on January 6, 2009 and that within six months of January, a commission was to be formed that we still don't have today. The question is also asked -- can a delay in the formation of this 15-month commission be explained and justified in any way? So we don't have a commission, which literally doesn't exist for 15 months, and on the other hand, which I think is very important, we don't even know who we're setting up today, or we're choosing the commission itself. I'm saying this because for no candidate, either for a candidate for the president of the commission, or for a candidate for members of the committee, we, as MPs, are the only ones empowered to judge their choice, we didn't get any of their biography. Then the question arises – do we even have procedural conditions to discuss this issue today? I'll just call Article 102. The law on public procurement, which clearly states that for the President of the Republic Commission, a person who meets the conditions necessary for the election of a municipal court judge and who has a three-year working experience in the field of public procurement, and for a member of the Republic Commission, a person who is a graduate is a lawyer, with a working experience of two years in the field of procurement or seven years of working experience in the profession, can be elected. Do we know anything reliable about a candidate for the President of the Commission? We had the opportunity to read in the paper the most negative light about his work résumé, his personality. Of course, I am not authorized to judge the justification of such allegations, but in the absence of a biography, in the absence of what we today were unable to engage in and debate that we are a normal parliament, I can't think of anything other than that there is a great probability of these allegations, which we have had the opportunity to read about in the paper, get the dimension of possible. It's very interesting that a man with the same name and last name, I can't claim here that it's the same man because I don't know, I don't have a biography in front of me, I don't even know what his home number is, and not something more than that, showed up as a proposal in this assembly in March this year, if I'm not mistaken, and then because of the public pressure he withdrew his candidacy himself. We also had the opportunity to read that candidates for members of that commission would also withdraw in case he was elected president of the commission, because they dispute his expertise, challenge his professionalism and believe that the work of the commission will not be transparent with him and that he will no longer be able to be an independent body, as in the law itself exists as its definition. I have to say that the commission is a very serious institution and that people who need to make it should have a certain level of expertise, professionalism, a certain degree of dignity and, of course, their biography should be without any single stain. Is that how it is today? Otherwise, it would be a serious attempt to destroy institutions in society itself. Since the biography, not only for the president but for no member, we do not have in front of us, that we only have newspaper inscriptions that speak in the most negative light about the candidate for president, I can be quite confident that this is a matter and that there is a very bad staff solution at work. Once again, I must say that we are showing once again that we are living in a non-democratic society where basic democratic principles of choice are not respected, in which every humane solution appears to be so that it must be exclusively at the will of the ruling majority and, unfortunately, it is done by the criteria that are far from those prescribed in the law itself. As long as that is the case, it will not be here and there can be no question of any reforms, any European standards, the application of European values, can not be said of the application of the principle of free competition, it cannot be said of the very democratic principles itself, and all of this becomes a naked story that has no greater range than mantras and flossulas themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44294	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44295	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in the assembly debate and procedure is one of the topics concerning fighting, so to speak, the greatest monsters we face as a state, therefore, corruption. What I would like to point out at the outset is that the issue of freedom of consumer choice is closely linked to the problem of remaining monopolys in Serbia and the region. What is certainly not good, this is the World Bank and World Economic Forum's assessment that our country is in 130th place, out of 133 countries, according to the effectiveness of the Anti-Monopoly Commission. What is also a big problem is the fact that no executive ruling against monopolies has been reached in Serbia so far. A shift expected in this area by applying the Competition Protection Act... The law, if I'm not mistaken, came into force last November and was meant to significantly improve the business environment. As thought then, the shift made should have been that the Commission was able for the first time to impose penalties on companies found to have broken the law, while the courts did so according to previously applicable legislation. However, practice has shown that they have not reached any verdict against monopolies in Serbia. This declarative commitment to deal with monopolies is obviously still in the sphere of only advocacy, because a strategy to fight monopolies, under which competition will be won by all companies that have and abuse the dominant position in the country, is obviously still just a dead letter on paper. I'm just going to remind myself of something that is mostly public already known, which is that virtually the largest monopolies in the trade and processing of agricultural products, cereals, such as soybeans, where the dominant participation of Victoria Oil is. The dominant position in milk processing, and we could see for ourselves all the consequences of such a situation, has the company Salford; there is also something similar in the production of BAT cigarettes; there are, of course, Philip Morris and Monus; in the production of oil there is also the front of the Diamant, Agrokor and Invej, and about the situation in energy, where NIS and Elektroprivreda Serbia have already been used up. What I would like to point out on this occasion is one relationship that we have as a country in certain organizations. Perhaps the best example of the poor position the state has in this area, i.e. the sphere, is certainly CEFTA, therefore, specifically, the case of Serbia and Croatia, or Belgrade and Zagreb. Serbia as an exporter of food records a deficit in exchange with Croatia of as much as $117.3m. He's got a lot of problems. We once mentioned that one of the problems is that Croatian customs officers are asking for the accompanying documentation to be exclusively on the Latin and that the specifications of the manufacturers are exactly the norms of the consumption of material, which actually penetrates the rules on the protection of business secrets. The data that around 200 Croatian companies operate in Serbia, while the number of Serbian companies in Croatia exceeds 10, that investments by Croatian businessmen in Serbia are practically increasing from year to year and amounting to around 500m euros, while the Serbian investment is worth around 20m euros. Croatia is Serbia's sixth largest investor, and the first Serbian investment in Croatia was only placed in 2008. It is about the company "Svilion" Takovo, which was the first from Serbia to invest in Croatia by buying the "Eurofood Market" factory from Sisak. Also known is the data, we heard it in today's debate, how big a problem it is regarding public procurement, and that it is practically about 25% of the total public procurement that is carried out annually in Serbia is actually under suspicion that they have been carried out illegally. What may be the biggest problem and what should certainly be paid attention to, is this very phase of the realisation of the contract, because the Public Procurement Act regulates the procedure until the moment the contract was concluded with the bidder who made the most favourable offer. By signing the contract, the jurisdiction of the law and the institutions whose work is regulated by it, which are the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the Protection of Rights, practically ceases and thus a very important phase of realization, which hides a number of dangers from abuse, remains practically still out of the reach of the law, the administration and the Commission. One of the practically crucial roles in the control of public procurement contracts should be owned by the State Audit Authority, and the control of the execution of the public procurement contract should certainly, to a more significant extent, be implemented by the inspection services and, perhaps most importantly, by the Ministry of the Interior. I think, therefore, it is really necessary to engage significantly more actively in the control of the realisation of public procurement contracts, especially in the so-called large buyers and high-value purchases. I will remind only of the perhaps most striking example, which is the results of the control of one such contract concerning the reconstruction of Terminal 2 at Belgrade Airport, which was worth 18m euros. As a result of all that we know, and whether a preventive effect will be achieved, the rest we can see. So some further positive shift in the rise of a much fairer and more economical public procurement system would have a strong impact on the domestic public's position on corruption and corrosiveness in Serbia, because public procurement is the area in which corruption is, therefore, present in the largest proportion and certainly that the shift in this area could change the general picture of corruption in Serbia. For now, the picture is black, there's no tone, and that's something that, of course, will have to change as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44296	Seven minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is by MP Milan Lapcevic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44297	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, these three points that have been joined into a single debate today are on the agenda, and within them we should select commissions to protect consumers, i.e. competition and the Public Procurement Commission. For years, it has been said to the public in this country, and reports from all relevant committees, that the biggest problem in Serbia is corruption, and that corruption is mainly stemming from that part of state investment, i.e. public procurement that the state and its authorities are conducting. About four billion euros per year are spent on public procurement in this country, and according to data from various institutions between 20% and 25% of these couples that go through public procurement end up in the pockets of those who are interested or who are in the government or who are interested in having that money washed and poured into private pockets. So one of the biggest problems in this country and by the perception of public opinion itself and citizens is the problem of corruption. In order to be credible as a state and to gain more confidence in its institutions, these institutions must be credible and do their job in a transparent manner. Let's see what happens to these institutions that should restore citizens' trust in the state, or those who do some business, since they are people who fill Serbia's budget, most of whom live. So these three commissions should protect competition and protect legality in public procurement. We have received proposals for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, the biography of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Commission, and we have received a paper saying this is a decision on the election of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, where it is said that Borislav Galic, a graduate lawyer from Belgrade, for members of Zeljko Grošet, Branislav Cvetkovic, Vuk Rankovic and Vesna Gojković Milin. As far as this paper is concerned, these other commissions, there's no biography of any candidate. This same item of the agenda, i.e. the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, was on the agenda of this Assembly at the beginning of March of this year, and it seems to me that some MPs from the ruling majority were soon removed from the agenda, in order to get it back in the same form after six months, but, of course, now without a single letter about those people we should choose. So, of course, the legitimate question that Mr Krasic raised this morning, how can we discuss the people we should choose without knowing anything about them? So, the only thing that I as a folk MP found about the proposed people was on the website "Blica" in the text that says, "Debecian's dirty past head of public procurement control." That was from March 5th, 2010. There is talk of a certain Borislav Galic, who is said to be a dirty past, that he behaves in a strange way, that he introduces some new rules and non-transparentity in the work of the Commission for Protection in Public Procurement, but indeed, as my colleague Radovic said, we cannot claim that it is the same man because the names match, but that does not mean that there are no two people of the same name. So we really need more information about the man, is he the same man who was called here six months ago by the media and by the people who are in the ruling coalition, who said they didn't want to and won't support such a choice. It is strange to me today that there are no representatives of the Serbian Renewal Movement in the hall, since this text seems to mention them, and that Mr Galic, since 5 March 2010, has, since then, been associated in some way with the cabinet of Goran Petrovic, former head of the DB, participated in the purchases of some false passports, etc., etc., which is certainly not recommended for such a place, because, by law, it is said that a member of the law can be chosen by a man who is worthy of such functions, that he has, of course, experience in the work of public procurement and that he is worthy of such functions for whom he is elected. If it's the same man, and the media calls him that he's been dealing with these shops, I'm afraid that's not a very good recommendation. How are we going to justify that, if this is really about such people, in front of those institutions that put conditions on us every day, first of all, I mean EU institutions, that we need to adapt our legislation to European legislation and, of course, reduce corruption and crime in the country, because it's a cancer wound in this country? We shouldn't do this because someone is warning us and isn't going to take us where he obviously won't take us, but because it's cancer wound for the citizens of this country and because the taxpayers' money is being poured into someone's private pockets in this way, by stealing, by stealing, by setting up a tender. This certainly does not happen to you, Mrs Malovic, but you are also aware that corruption is in society and that it mainly happens through systems of tender, public procurement and furniture, and mainly with persons directly linked to those who conduct these tenders, or those who exercise power. If the government wants to be fair and wants to work for the benefit of the state, it must think long-term, not think by proposing non-creditable institutions, which tomorrow may work on non-transparent cover-up and public tendering. A few months ago, in this House, we passed a wonderful law, called the Law on the Encouragement of Construction Industry in Serbia, which completely derrogates and throws public procurement into the floor, so public procurement is avoided as an instrument of control of the spending of state money by selecting similar bidders through various commissions and directly with them, face to face or face to face, agreeing how much it will cost something to do for the state. I'm sorry, I can take my word for a lot of people, but when it comes to government money, I don't trust anyone. There is absolutely no excuse that such things can be done in this country. We need, besides the State Audit Institute, much more control of the spending of state money than we have today. By proposing such institutions, I'm afraid we won't go far. The day before yesterday, we had a debate on amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, where we will receive the Fiscal Council to be proposed by the president of the state, governor and minister, and the minister proposes his member in the Fiscal Council to control the minister. Excuse me, who's he gonna propose to? Someone who's gonna be so upset to shake everyone out of the ministry? Of course not. We need independent institutions if we want to make something out of this country. Independent institutions cannot be if proposed directly from the party. Excuse me, no party will propose anyone to control her work. So we will certainly not support the selection of members of these committees because they do not guarantee that these commissions will bring anything good to this Serbia, that the degree of corruption will decrease. Serbia is now 84th or 85th under almost all former Yugoslav republics. What kind of recommendation is that for investors? What is this recommendation for improving the business environment in this country? Not at all. It's your job to do something to make it better. This way, I'm sure he won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44298	Ten minutes and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group and is available for another three minutes and thirty-five seconds. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SRS, this debate today has too much formal character, and these are too serious things to have access to them as it is. Why do I say that? This isn't the first time we've talked about so-called. to independent regulatory bodies or, as we say in the SRS, to parallel state institutions, that what you have defined as a government is not respected, or, I repeat, you have one very formal approach that you have today. We do not think that Serbia is the problem Borislav Galic, the man is doing what the German gentlemen, i.e. the government, are giving the executive authority, which, of course, you in the congregation majority, unfortunately Serbia, will give support, or your consent. As far as we're concerned, we believe Serbia was sufficient for the institutions it had, without these regulatory bodies. She had a lot of documents, or laws, of normative acts that would require these regulatory bodies to deal with. And this time in effect is the absence of a political will to deal seriously with corruption or distortion of competition. That is why today we are discussing all of this the way we are discussing, there is no story of the essence, we are dealing with whether it is done formally or not, while competition and corruption in Serbia are booming, and not only the opposition, i.e. the SRS, unfortunately, many outside the borders of this country are talking about it. Why do we think all of this doesn't matter to you and all of this doesn't matter? And these two regulatory bodies, whatever the candidates are in them, will have the fate of some other regulatory bodies that you've politically defined, and then you've done everything to question their meaning of existence. Remember what problems you have made to the Commissioner for Public Information, so remember the path that the State Audit Authority has been going through, and remember this commission that we are talking about today, the Competition Protection Commission, so consider the Commission for State Aid Control, etc. Full of the mouth of European principles and standards and European practices, full of the mouth of affirmation and success, and the situation in Serbia is getting worse and worse. I'll just remind you, while your high president boasts and offers to be a leader in the region, on the scales of institutions that rank where we are in the context of corruption and competition, in the region you are the last, you who are the executive power in Serbia. When we specifically refer to what we are discussing today, see just how important all this is to you and how important it is to you, let's say, when we talk about the election of this member of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures: The law adopted (this was written in your explanation for the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law) on 22 December 2008, came into force on 6 January 2000, and it says in that law that you need to form a six-month period of entry into force of this law. It's almost the end of 2010. Now you are talking – you are for European standards, for principles, to arrange the state and to deal with corruption. That's really funny, and if anything, it requires a laugh, so we don't complain about you anymore. But it doesn't mean anything to you, it doesn't bother you. We can surprise you as much as you want, you will always find a reason and an excuse to present what you do well and positive, but I repeat, you are challenged by those whose hug you run into, and because of the crime and corruption you close your eyes on, they will never accept you as serious, responsible or acceptable partners. As regards this competition, i.e. the Competition Commission, the regulation that these anti-monopoly mechanisms or procedures would be built on existed before. The first law you passed in 2005 and he had a bunch of drawbacks. Both Commission people and independent institutions, scientific institutions, tried to point out to the government that it was not good enough. Five years, or four years after that, we received a new law, based on which we are to establish a new commission today, but the essence, which we need to talk about today, how much it has benefited and had mechanisms in place for the commission and on the basis of which we are building our views on how much this commission will work in the future. You don't have to go any further, just look at the oil situation, just look at the milk situation, and you don't have to talk about anything else. It is the harsh reality of the Republic of Serbia. We are talking in the Assembly that we will tackle these regulatory bodies, independent, competition, one, the other, the third, and then those who are destroying competition in Serbia, which are essentially monopolies, sitting on the Kopalnik with our ministers, with prime ministers and defining economic life, economic rules and economic relations in this country. We now need to expect that something good will come from this commission and that competition, i.e. the market and market principles in the Republic of Serbia will be established. Perhaps we could, if you weren't in power and if there was one completely different political will. Personally, we don't want to argue with anyone, but, let's say, I would briefly refer to Mr. Ivan Ugrin. The gentleman considered it appropriate or it was very important to inform us in his biography of what was after the October changes. Could anyone have been anything after the October changes without being painted or painted politically? Who could have been in charge of some government since October 5th without belonging to one of those who have committed governments for the last ten years? No one could. What perhaps a gentleman should hide and save for himself, because objectively there is nothing in the last ten years, at least when the institutions in which he was a member, to boast, he went out to the MPs and boasted. Unfortunately, I don't have any more time. The Serbian Radical Party believes, because of all this and other things my colleagues will say, that you are only in shape here, there is no such thing as here. That's why we think we can't and shouldn't be part of all of this, that is, the choices of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44300	Seven minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. After that, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Competition Protection Commission is one of the organisations in Serbia that no longer knows the number. Different committees, advice was established over the past years uninterrupted. No one took note of warnings that the creation of such large-scale organisations only leads to an excessive state administration, that it was only inventing new jobs, which led the IMF to issue an order to pass the laws on the maximum number of employees in the state administration and to leave them out of work, which this assembly also adopted. In this situation, the Serbian Radical Party has appealed to the authorities not to do so, not to fire people at a time of economic crisis, because they have no place to work, because the impact mainly came with auxiliary staff, but to stop the establishment of new authorities and organisations of parallel state bodies, where profits and fees are made and how high. Of course, someone will say that the Competition Protection Commission was founded earlier in April 2006, and someone might think this might not be for the SRS to do this job in Serbia. Serbia is a country with an extremely unhealthy market and a fight against monopoly behaviour and that it is necessary. However, it is evident that there is no longer any possibility of this struggle taking place. To stress that the position of the SRS is that if there was a genuine will to prevent unhealthy behaviour on the market, it could be done by defining the sector's competent ministry as regards protecting competition in the Republic of Serbia, but that would then mean much smaller civil apparatus. When we look at the Competition Protection Commission's organisational scheme, it looks like this (this is published on the Commission's website): the President of the Commission, the Council of the Commission, the Business Secretary, an independent public relations adviser, a secretary and a professional service consisting of seven sectors. I won't count them all for time. When you look at all this, just to be amazed. When you compare the results to the results, the astonishment is even greater. But we can't blame it all on the Commission, say the situation on our market is because it's caused by their unhappiness. It's because it was created by the state. Of course there are arguments for such an argument. In fact, there have been difficult words between the outgoing president of the Commission's Council and powerful Serbian businessmen. Mrs. President said that behind the decision not to be re-proposed for the aforementioned post, there was a certain large Serbian businessman, because of certain investigations, and that various things were happening at the beginning of the offer of gifts in the form of the purchase of apartments in Cyprus, until it ended up with very serious threats. The businessman in question made a public announcement, rejected her claims and concluded his interview with the words: "The legal expert assessment of her work has nevertheless been given by the Supreme Court, where Bajalovic lost all disputes against the companies that she mentioned in her interview, which brought solutions to the abuse of the dominant position." By the way, the companies the outgoing president mentioned were "Evening News" and "Delta Maxi". No one in Serbia is surprised then if the Commission has lost its disputes in court when it hears who it is. Otherwise, because of citizens who are following this meeting of the Assembly, I will read the classification of independent bodies in Serbia. First of all, the bodies which are the foundation and guarantee of democratic order are: the Constitutional Court, the High Council of the judiciary, the State Greater Prosecutors, the National Bank of Serbia, the Securities Commission, the Frankfurt, the Public Information Commissioner and the Republic Election Commission. I, independent bodies guaranteeing the public integrity of state institutions, which are: the State Audit Institution, the Competition Protection Commission, the Committee on Conflict of Interest (sometimes) and the Commission for the Protection of Rights at the Public Procurement Administration. What is best said in Serbia is that the Supreme Court, which should form the basis and guarantee of the democratic order, knocks down the solution of an independent body guaranteeing the integrity of state institutions. It is a very interesting view of the former President of the Constitutional Court, who argues that organised crime and corruption go to order the existence of a large number of formal authorities and services, which are insufficiently co-operated or overlapped. He believes that the most important prerequisite for successful fight against corruption and organised crime is professional and technical training and the establishment of permanent and effective co-operation between competent state authorities and specialised organisations, such as the BIA, the Tax Administration, the State Audit Authority, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Public Procurement Administration, the Competition Protection Commission. Independent regulatory and control bodies in modern political theory represent so-called The fourth branch of government, whose job is to monitor the other three branches independently on behalf of the citizens. I hate to talk about what certain NGOs say, because I don't consider them Serbian friends, but sometimes I do. The Open Society Fund has been doing a study on the operation of the so-called ". The fourth branch of the government, and here's what they say: "The impression is that a series of independent bodies have been established only to demonstrate reforms, while in practice the bodies have not received adequate information or their work systematically undermines executive power, in line with the daily political and economic interests." The claims made by Mrs. Bajalovic Markovic are interesting. In March of this year, she said that the anti-monopoly struggle in Serbia is tied hands, that the Commission does not have a mechanism to break up monopolies and that the new Competition Protection Act, which gives greater rights and powers to the Commission, has been passed, but is not applicable, because without sublegal acts, which are not yet finished, the Commission cannot say measures. As for Mrs. Bajalovic Markovic, I will just say for a little while that at a time when she was the president of the Competition Protection Commission she launched a procedure for breaking the law against Coca-Cola, Frikoma, she warned "Srbigas", the Union of Bakers, etc. Now that we are talking about the selection of a new composition of the Competition Protection Commission, the election of the president and members of the Council, I will once again state the position of the SRS so that it is good for competition protection jobs to be carried out within one sector of the ministry, not by one of these massive bodies. In March of the month, more precisely on March 28th, the newspaper "Politika" wrote of the Commission's selection of a new composition: "The media confidently report that the new President of the Council will most likely be a person who is considered decent, kind and unsuspecting, although it has never dealt with real competition before, nor has he had experience in this area." On Thursday, the National Assembly established a new meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, and a meeting of the Committee was held on Friday to present candidates who applied for the competition. The aim of that session was to respect the procedure, although here is how the media wrote, it seems in March that they knew who would pass. I would only like to read what the provisions of the Competition Protection Act relating to the selection of Commission bodies, Article 23: "The President of the Commission and the members of the Council are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy, with at least ten years of relevant work experience, which have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the relevant area, especially in the area of competition protection and European law". At the mentioned session of the Assembly Committee, one candidate at a time entered. The Committee president politely welcomed them, presented them and asked if they wanted to add something to their biography and did so and asked how they could see their role in the Competition Protection Commission. Mrs Vesna Jankovic, who was proposed for the president of the Commission, came with a prepared response concept on paper in her hands. We see from Mrs Jankovic's biography that it is the judge of the District Court in Belgrade, who is an occasional member of the Five Council in the first-degree criminal department and who until 31 December 2010, served as Judge of the Sixth-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Department Department. It is also written that it has special knowledge in the field of child rights and the conditions laid down in Article 203(1) and (2). Family law. In the biography of some other candidates, there was a lot of information on recognised works and practices in the field of competition protection, as defined by Article 23. These candidates have not been selected, and there is no such data in the biography of the selected candidate for the President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44302	Ten minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic, followed by Parliament MP Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, you should know the practice of Parliament; when a representative of the Government is presented in the Assembly to give answers to the questions of MPs, to participate in a discussion on the law which is or is not in the jurisdiction of his ministry, we always get answers from the Prime Minister that it is a representative of the Government and that it is respected by the Rules of Procedure of the Labour Assembly, with today's agenda point directly affecting that the Government's representative, more specifically, makes a proposal for a candidate to elect members of the Commission, and I think it would be correct for you to get involved in this debate, because your ministry is responsible for this proposal. What is very important to me is the bill itself, more specifically the decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. If we are aware of the fact that we do not repeat the same story that the predecessors told, that public procurement is something that needs to define by law the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that the Commission is tasked with saving it, and then we choose the members who are going to do it, we are looking for their work experience, we are looking for their biography and we are looking for their assessment of the work on consistency, we see that the state does not care about saving the budget, and that the state does not care about the respect of those legal deadlines that it has imposed itself through this assembly. What's very bad for me, and I suppose for all MPs, is that we don't know any candidates, because we don't have any biography for them. What we have as a biography is a March rerun this year, when we received an answer as to whether the candidate for the president of this commission has deviated from his candidacy. Or, today, we get an answer that if he is re-elected, although he has been in office since September 2009, only under the old law, within the Public Procurement Administration, more specifically, if he is elected today at today's session or in the voting day, that the other candidates who applied for these functions will withdraw from the same. So let the state agree with itself whether it has a concrete proposal to elect members and president of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures or not. It's pointless for us to discuss without getting any answers from you, and it's even more groundless to discuss the biographies we don't have. Those biographies we have aren't good. These are biographies presented by means of public information. Whether someone was the former president of State Security, or the director, that he was working in the city's cleanliness, whether he was using "Genex" suites, whether he was here as director or not, doesn't mean anything to us. What it means to us is to stick to the letters of the law, even though we don't agree with that law for once. In this case, Article 102 of this law says that for the President of the Republic Commission, a person who meets the conditions necessary for the election of a municipal court judge and who has a three-year working experience in the field of public procurement may be elected. If we were to send a letter to the Constitutional Court that Mr or candidate Borislav Galević did not have a three-year working experience, this decision would fall to you. Or, if there is, why didn't you present it to us in an explanation, but in an explanation, you stated that the law you have passed was not respected and that it requires the immediate adoption of these candidates, or a proposal. What we ask of you in response, as a representative of the government and the ministry whose obligation this is, is to explain to us who these people are, what is their résumé, where is their work experience, what is evidence of work, their quality of trust to be members, let alone the presidents of this commission? What did that advent a special candidate for president to be president in the first place? Show us any signal from that official story that you present to us through means of public information, that the state does not want to be criminal, that it does not want to have crime and corruption, that it wants to frame in the fields of law and the laws of the sphere of social life, etc. Tell us specifically in this room, you as a representative of the government, you as a minister of justice. It is said that – a member of the Republic Commission may be elected a person who is a graduate lawyer, with a working experience of two years in the field of public procurement or seven years of work experience in the profession. We don't have any of that data here. What is even worse is that in September 2009, the government has already adopted and appointed these people without the Assembly's consent. Come on, and we can figure it out somehow, given that the old law was in force, but isn't it old practice and procedures to choose members first, so when it's time to choose the president? No, these members were imposed by the president at the very beginning, and we ask the question – why? Why and why? What's also bad at this fact is that the Public Procurement Act itself is bad and it can't affect budget cuts, because you know that this law has made it possible for some political parties to remain in office of political parties, that the means of funding political parties is precisely through this law in force, that the abuses of this law and the failures of the law, which you didn't want to change when we adopted it, is exactly the means of financing certain political parties. Therefore, when the power is distributed, political parties are grabbed where there are the most resources and money and where the most procurement needs to be achieved. So that I don't owe much, I'll read just a few things, how serious all this can be, and how obvious it is if you look at just some giants who were the biggest suppliers of goods, services and works in Serbia during 2007. The example works, with a scale of 30 front: JP "Teleko Serbia" - completed contracts 2230; JP "Electroprivreda Serbia" - completed contracts 103, worth ten million dinars; the city of Belgrade, the city administration completed 276 contracts, worth 8.8 million dinars; TE "Nikola Tesla" - completed 817 contracts, worth 8.2 million dinars; the Building Land Directorate and the construction of Belgrade with 343 contracts, the value of 6.4 billion dinars; the Republic Health Insurance Office - 1620 contracts, the value of 5.6 billion dinars. There is "Belgrade Road", Ministry of Defence, Mining Based "Collubara" etc. How far has this value, money, public, been transparently passed through the Commission without any objections or interference, and how long has it been for those who have objections and interference, where have these tenders mostly been annulled? I will remind you that the Republic Commission or the Republic Ministry of Budget cannot, within its competence, with those capacities it has, carry out audits and control of all budgets, both local self-government and cities and ministries. Therefore, even the State Auditor will not have the opportunity to root out all these gaps and holes in the Public Procurement Act, which are skillfully served by all those who want to secure their budget and existence. I will also remind you that by way of the post of Mr Galic, the General Affairs Administration has already provided him with working conditions, that she has given him a vehicle which he seems to have learned to drive, it is a darkened jeep vehicle; that she has provided him with rooms with the latest leather furniture and conditions that a DB operative must have, and that the complaints are just the members of that commission, not the people who participated in the procurement procedures of any good. So, Mrs Malovic, give some answer in this debate today, so that we have a sense of participation to choose anyone for any function with any kind of right, moral and any other responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44304	Eight minutes and forty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been issued by the People's MP Milorad Buha, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are unacceptable to the SRS only to the formal side of this matter, and we are not talking about essential things and problems in areas that cover these agenda points. When we talk about the public character of these decisions, we must point to legal provisions that the current government does not respect. According to Article 125 of the Public Procurement Act, it is clear that the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement will form within six months of the date of entry into force of the Public Procurement Act. It has been 15 months since that deadline, when you had to appoint the Commission and the Assembly to decide on the election of the president and members of this committee. Why didn't the current government do it? That question must have been raised here by you as proponents of this law, or government, and you as minister of justice to tell us the reasons why the law is waiting, why the law is being broken. Why do you break a law that's clear? So, we don't have any prior formal, informal circumstances that prevent us from the government on its staff committee establishing a list of candidates, running a competition, choosing from the order twenty-fifty. You have a majority in the government, and you have it here in the Assembly, so it's perfectly normal for you to respect that deadline. How do you expect citizens from the economy to respect deadlines, to carry out social obligations, public obligations, if the government does not exercise power and does not respect the law? How do you expect a man who receives a pension from an area of 8100 dinars to settle his obligations neatly, to respect all the laws of established obligations to the state, and the state and the government violates something that cannot be violated? There's no reason. But there's a reason. What are those reasons? At a scientific meeting held in Belgrade on 24 March this year, where the state secretary at the finance ministry, Mr. Slobodan Ilic, was present, there were discussions on public procurement and problems in the application of the Public Procurement Act. At this scientific meeting, the following was observed: along with these problems, one of the problems recorded – that the bidders should be discriminated against. Representatives from the area, along with representatives of state authorities and representatives of foreign embassies, attended the scientific meeting. An ambassador was present who also took part in the discussion, and I'll quote what he said. But it was found that the public procurement process would discriminate against the bidders. It's been a practice in the last eight years, how many public procurements we have as a public institution. Furthermore, it was found by the English ambassador, UK Ambassador Stephen Wardsworth, who in his discussion provided information that in the 2009 public procurement of Serbia, around four billion, in 2005, even the amount would likely be up to five billion euros, that there would be an unwarranted alienation, not to mention evasion, crime, about 10%. Even Mr. Wardsworth said it was between 400,000 and 600,000 euros. To make the absurd even bigger, the director of the Public Procurement Administration, Mr Jovanovic, said the figure moves as much as 800,000 euros. So that's the fact that the government knows, the state institutions know, the inspections know. So, what does it look like to prevent an outflow of money in private pockets from the public character of that money? Is the state taking action to prevent crime in this area? He's not doing anything. She's just estimating a harmful condition. It doesn't cure causes, it just finds the consequences of all activities in terms of carrying out criminal activities. Because if it were the other way around, that's where we'd have figured out if we'd stopped this, if we'd stopped it, etc. We didn't stop anything. The state doesn't work. State institutions are doing nothing to prevent crime in public procurement. If we figure out, and you're saying, that goes away 400,000 - 800,000 euros, that's 400 schools, that's 400-500 entertainment sites. That's about 10% of the pension fund; the chairman of the board of directors is here, even 20% if it's 800,000 thousand. Imagine that we prevent theft, crime in public procurement and keep it in normal flows and we have an increase in pensions of about ten, maybe even 20%; or 25-30% of wages, because the pay fund, what is paid over the budget, is about 180 billion, so that's about 25-30% somewhere! Look at the amounts we're talking about. The budget is in deficit for over a billion euros. Eight hundred million to prevent, leave it in payment, etc., Mr. Ilic, is it so that we have far more resources in the budget than we have? But the state isn't working. The state institutions aren't working. Now, look, who's taking it, who's stealing it a little bit? They steal people on boards, directory and management. Who are these people? They're party people. You set them up. How do you control those you've set up? That's what no government does to the end. Therefore, your people you have appointed commit crimes, crimes, etc. Are you stopping them? You're not stopping. It's a real condition. Is this Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement going to carry out its function and can these five people prevent all this that has been established at this scientific gathering and what else do we in the public opinion that there is crime in this area? He won't, and he can't. It's just one segment. When we analyze the situation a little bit, what you know very well, there are commissions in the Department of Public Procurement that solve cases and there's an administration that does it. Seven referents serve seven commissions. Seven referents each day have seven, eight, to ten items to be solved. It's impossible to solve, you know that very well. The Public Procurement Administration has been pointing to these problems for years now. So she can't administratively handle it. That's why we're told it's a 15-day deadline and another five-day deadline to complete the paperwork. Can any object be respected? He can't. These are the facts you know about. The government will keep quiet about it. Get yourself dragged through Management, through the board, administration five, six, eight months. We're losing pace. We're losing financial resources, which are lying somewhere in our banks. And there's a reason why they lie in banks, why they don't place themselves, because the process is slowing down – because these funds are being cashed in, etc. Again, who benefits? Again, your people who receive the compensation for lying funds in banks, etc. These are the facts we need to discuss. What is tragic, this congregation never once, although it controls these commissions, not once... We did get in writing, and that's official in the assembly procedure, but we haven't considered any information from these institutions here, determined the situation, analyzed the problems and sought a solution and found measures. What is even more tragic is that the European Union, which you say has no alternative, has been warning you of public procurement problems for years. They openly say it's corruption and crime. As you face this European Commission and European institutions with their objections and how you justify all this, when they say year by year – but there public procurement, public procurement, etc.? Just a few more sentences about Mr. Wardsworth. He says openly – Serbs steal, steal. No one's paying attention to that. Imagine that the Serbian ambassador went to England and determined the situation. I believe an atomic bomb would be in eight to ten minutes, but okay. Look, is Mr. Wardsworth right? He's right. Why should we allow a foreign factor to come here, to lecture us? And, most tragically, man is telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44306	The used time of the parliamentary group is 11 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44307	Excuse me, how much time do we have left? (President: You have 22 minutes left. ) Ladies and gentlemen, a key member of the Competition Protection Act which is related to these proposals for the Commission and the President of the Commission is certainly a member of 23. In that Article 23. The law on competition protection insists on the knowledge of European law, which is understandable, as Mrs Bajalovic openly said in 3.10.2008 that the EU has just funded the creation of the new law. However, from a legal point of view, that definition is completely pointless. I really don't know what European law means. Did you mean EU law, European Community law or Aki communitre? Because European law can also be the right of Iceland, Moldova and all countries located on the European continent. There was supposed to be an exact and precise definition here, because in the legal theory, legal practice, besides and in private life, the term Aki communitre is used. Probably meant members of 84th and 85th. The Rome Treaty establishing the European Community, which is precisely the main source of regulation for competition, monopoly and illicit association. In this regard, this anomaly is also shown in the definition of criteria for the selection of the president of the commission. If you already wanted to change Mrs. Bajalović Markovic, then someone with some references to Aki's knowledge, several papers or at least some practical work on harmonising Aki communitre with Serbia's and SRJ's right before that should come. However, Mrs. Vesna Jankovic has a biography in which there is no indication that she is directed to that matter. Moreover, we can see that there's some kind of computer course here, Paragraph Net, etc., but it has nothing to do with these criteria of Article 23. Also, she is fully discredited by the fact that she is one of the signatories of the study that "Delta Maksi" is not a monopolies, and just now the Competition Protection Commission, chaired by Mrs. Bajalovic, repeatedly pointed out that the company, the company's largest monopoly. You know for a fact that the Competition Protection Commission has come up with the fact that Delta Maxes has 70% of the Belgrade market, which is scandalous. To show that we are objective and that we are not aprioriers against every candidate, we appreciate, for example, Professor. Vesna Besarovic, she is known at the Faculty of Law, she deals with international economic law and she is certainly more directed than Mrs Jankovic to Aki communitre and European Community law. Also, Mrs Sanja Grajic Stepanovic is well-known for working on harmonising Aki communicators with our country's right, and in 1996 she published some papers on it. These are two experts who can't be said to be not referred to the matter required by this Article 23, but Mrs Vesna Jankovic is obviously not and this shows that there are probably some political reasons for her proposal for such a significant duty. We're not gonna deal with the difference between the so-called. European law which you are talking about and the rules of the Treaty of Rome, from other parts of Aki communicators and practices in the EU, which has absolutely nothing to do with these regulations, because there is such a kind of unfair competition common. It is enough to look at the automotive market and you will see that there is no competition, nor is there any regulation that limits the monopoly behaviour of individual companies. Also, as regards this difference between practice and these so-called so-called. European rules, which are presented here as something sublime, as something that cannot be criticised, are sufficient for you to look at the European Court of Justice ruling, which was taken under the direct influence of the German court, where, imagine a paradox, claims that the right to exclusive purchase is not a restriction on competition, which is total nonsense. Also, the European Union has not even tried to fight covert subsidies, which have been given through framework programmes since 1984. I'm talking about 3, 6, 8, and even up to 14 billion euros, which, you'll admit, is not a model for making a law as significant as the Competition Protection Act. However, all these anomalies have led to the fact that you have the president of the Competition Protection Commission who has twice reached the solution that Delta is a monopoly. In the end, she came up with a solution that also Salford is a monopoly, which has 60% of our market. However, instead of protecting one such civil servant who, and we resent him, did not go public before to say whether or not he was exposed to any threats, she replaces him. And Mr. Milan Beko is so sure of himself, that I don't use any other expression, that he claims to sue Mrs. Bajalovic because she said he was making threats to her. We do not side with Mrs. Bayalovic or Mr. Bek, but it is doubtless that the state does not defend its civil servant, so significant, and that it does not give him support in this scandalous affair. That's why we won't vote for these suggestions, for both professional and practical reasons, and I have to say for moral reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44308	Six minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44309	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps this debate, especially when it comes to the election of members of the Council for a commission to deal with competition, or by preventing monopolies in our country, would have gone so quietly and without any great noise that it wasn't an SRS MP, but rather the order would have gone to the point of the agenda, as it was later and included, after getting called for this session, by the decision of you who decided to put it on the agenda, because it was probably necessary for you from the DS and all others who did this coalition power not to raise much dirt further and to be frequently mentioned today, but not only today but also in the last three days, Mrs. Dijana Markovic Bajalovic remains as one scape lamb, someone who opened his soul in front of the media, crushed the mighty Milan Beku market, who are together with the money in Serbia, who are the other. However, we decided to say a lot, which the public may have been informed through some articles in the paper or, above all, through what we said a few years ago, and today we will have a special review, as did some respected colleagues before me, as well as recently Mr. Master Dejan Mirovic, who spoke by name about some candidates. And I will continue to talk about them, about those who have not passed, about Mrs Vesna Jankovic, who has been proposed for the President of the Competition Commission, and about what the Commission has been doing since she exists. One basic question is raised, Mrs Malovic, you are likely to be asked this often, above all, by these EU commissioners who come to you with various demands at conferences, at meetings – when will Serbia break out of the claws of corruption? In this situation and under such uncompetitive conditions of a market economy that does not exist, I use these terms because they are mentioned here in these legal provisions, and when these candidates report that they will fight for it, so in a situation where the tycoon or, as Mr Krasic said, because it is already the usual word tycoon, but large capitalists, to call them, or criminals in the economy, such as Beko, Miskovic and Djumić, continue to act and buy anything that falls under their paws, or to fire workers, to hold such a kind of monopoly, there is no serious fight against crime and corruption. Because if that were possible, this commission, which by law corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, would be in a position to resolve these huge disputes, and those eight administrative disputes have not yet ended before the competent courts, and it all began by conflicting Mrs Diana Markovic in 2007 with a powerful and large tycoon, or criminal Miroslav Miskovic. In fact, the Commission then dared to ask the question of how the Ce Market chain is being integrated and that Miroslav Miskovic can, before the fact that there are some laws that allegedly prevent monopoly and competition on the market, allow everyone to hold such a monopoly, however, the Serbian Supreme Court has annulled the solution because of the fact that they said there was no record of the Commission members' vote. Then the members of the Commission, led by Mrs Dijana Markovic, called and said – you did not even ask us to enter the report on the vote when deciding on Miskovic's monopoly into the case file. What did Milka Forcan, who was the vice president of Delta, say Miskovic's monopoly, or tycoon company? She said, "No matter what, there is no statement, everything is done according to law." Because "Delta" is doing business in the "Maxia" chain, "Ce Market", "Pekabete" and "Tempa" and what it takes, which is evident and we all know, for God's sake, in all cities, wherever we live, over 40% of the market, which is explicitly forbidden by law, you know that there are jokes on this subject – what are we and what is Serbia representing? "Deltu" and something else. While we were in that state community of Serbia-Montenegro, but since it moved to that criminal tycoon market with Milo Djukanovic, there is no better situation there now. Today, the question really arises whether we here should deceive the public and whether you are ready, as well as fellow counterpart Dejan Nikolic and other members of the ruling coalition committee, to represent such a farce as a way to fight corruption and to protect some competition. If that wasn't your intention, the fact is, because you decided to defend Mrs. Dijana Markovic, which we do not defend, as counterpart Dejan Mirovic and colleague Dimitrijevic said, we do not think about it, but we present the facts. Because, you know, something doesn't add up. The commission started working, and later lost a number of members, so she couldn't, as one of the candidates who didn't, and we heard them all a few days ago, actually last Friday at a meeting of the Trade Committee, and had the opportunity to talk to them, as Professor Petar Djukic said, who has an extremely impressive biography and knowledge from the field of market economy, unlike the proposed candidate for President Jankovic Vesna, who is a litigator at the District Court, therefore has nothing to do with the business of the economy at all. It would be the same now, Mrs. Malovic, as if you were, and you are a much better lawyer than proposed Jankovic Vesna, because you are the minister of justice in Serbia, becoming president of the Football Federation or if you would become president of this competition commission instead of someone who deals with market economy. I will end this and ask you the question, that is, the Government of Serbia – what about the case of the "Ce Market", how is it possible that the search warrant for Radulovic, who is running around Spain or who already knows where, is only responsible for him when it is known that he is inaccessible even now on a red warrant, we talked about it when Stanko Sutotic Canet was the case, for which the wrong warrant was called, so they cannot hand him over to the Swiss authorities because the act of fraud does not exist in them, and why is this indictment not covered by Danko Djunic, Miroslav Miskovic and this ossion Milan Beko? I would ask that the answer come to me as soon as possible or in writing, or, if you are able, to answer me today. In any case, the SRS will continue to fight corruption and crime sharply and make it public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44310	Thank you. Eight minutes and 25 seconds of Parliament time. There's a word for Mrs. Radet. I'm sorry, there's been a mistake here. You can now or as last. I'll see you later. All right, I get it. Then Mr. Babic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44311	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Ministers, the Competition Protection Act, as well as the Competition Protection Commission Council, which we are discussing today, should provide a clear, fair legal framework, in line with EU global standards and standards in the field of competition, which provides individual freedom of business based on competition, while at the same time ensuring conditions for effective work of competition institutions. The Competition Protection Commission should also be an independent body, which has the appropriate powers to effectively apply the law, as well as the necessary personnel and financial resources. These are the results the SNS expects from the Commission's Council for the Protection of Competition in Future Work. And what activities have we had in the past year? On the basis of Article 23(6), On 27 November 2009, the Law on Competition Protection, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia published a competition in the Official Messenger, which clearly lists the conditions for selecting a president and members of the Competition Protection Commission. The deadline for applying to a competition by interested persons was 30 days from the day of the competition in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that deadline, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, expired on 27 December 2009, so it expired just over nine months ago. If this fact is known and if it is known that the Commission's Competition Protection Council has worked in reduced capacity from only three members since 4 April 2009, the basic question is raised – what have you been waiting for so far? What were you waiting for for nine months? Let us call Serbia at least one thing by name and set such a system of values to be called responsible for such a situation. I assume that your alibi will be a previously bad legal solution, with two members of the Competition Protection Commission in office for three years, two members for four years, and one member of the Commission's Council had a term of office for five years. The consequence of such an act is that the Commission's Competition Protection Council has had only three members since 4 April 2009, namely Mrs Dijana Markovic Bajalovic, Prof. Dr. Petar Djukic and Mr. Miroslav Stankovic. If we accept that the previous legal solution had certain limiting factors, who is responsible for the fact that, under the new applicable law, the competitive documentation of the candidates collected dust for nine months while awaiting your political agreement? Candidates for the Presidents and members of the Commission's Council could wait, but the accumulated problems in the area of competition protection really do not think I can. If you were dissatisfied with the work of the former Competition Protection Council now, you were definitely because otherwise why would the Assembly Committee on Trade and Tourism refuse the candidacy of four previous members of the Commission's Council, including the President of the Council, the non-reelection of former members and the President of the Commission's Council prove your dissatisfaction with their work, again raises the question of what is the reason for your dissatisfaction. Is it because they didn't do their job, even though you delegated them, chose them and gave them powerful tools in their hands, or is it because they didn't choose to do their job? In written and electronic media, the last two days have exploited the story of threats and blackmails exposed to the President of the Council. Whether it is the pathetics of losers because of the unelection or the truth - they should examine the competent state authorities and therefore not, at least I don't think at this stage, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is engaged. In any case, there is that old Serbian saying, and that would be my message to Mrs. Markovic Bajalovic: "Who with the devil's pumpkin plantes himself, it's his own head." In the competition already mentioned, you stated that the President of the Commission and the members of the Commission are selected from the ranks of prominent law and economic experts, with at least ten years of relevant work experience, which have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the relevant area, particularly in the area of competition protection and European law. I fully agree that it is necessary for those faces to have such qualities. However, by carefully reading the candidates for the President of the Commission, I have seen that, apart from the rich legal romanticized family tree, a certificate on the possession of special knowledge in the field of child rights and, according to the computer course, in Mrs Vesna Jankovic's si-vii, I have not seen any relevant recommendation, no recognition of the work in the field of competition protection and any skills that would run for that responsible function. What you will, I assume, be under technical error and correct some amount of smart or subsequent correspondence, is the fact that Mrs Vesna Jankovic did not file or apply for a contest to elect a President of the Council, but only for a member of the Competition Protection Commission. Mrs. Jankovic is probably more aware of her limitations than you are, but it doesn't matter to you. One of the SNS's objections is that among the candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council there are no people who have spent at least one part of their careers in the economy, because one is the cabinet knowledge and understanding of the problem of protecting competition, and the other is what they learn and apply by working in the economy. Members of the Commission's Council must, in their mandate, do more complex jobs, such as the anti-monopol and anti-cartel rights in each of our society's pores, to vote to ban restrictive agreements, to eradicate the abuse of dominant positions, to control the concentration with the ban on those who restrict or eliminate effective competition. It takes people who are aware that not all agreements are prohibited, that not market power is not prohibited, but that a restriction on competition is prohibited and that they understand that dumped and subsidised imports are very harmful to the domestic industry. That the election of members of the Commission's Council is not the only one where you do not listen to the voice and message of the economy, says the fact that even at the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, as the fancy is called the SIEPA, of 40 employees we do not have anyone who has experience in previous work in the export company and is involved in export promotion. Also, our objection is that all the proposed candidates for members of the Council are lawyers and none of the candidates are economists, although this is foreseen by the competition. I will also remind you of the work of the previous Council and their regular annual work report for 2009, which is available on the Internet, which states that during the past 2009, the procedures have been closed against the Association of Insurance Services of Serbia, with the administrative dispute under way and the infringement procedure suspended. Afterwards, proceedings against the Association of Insurance Services and members of the Association on Autoresponsibility Insurance, as well as the procedure against bus carriers "Panonia Bus" and "Nish Express", with the same or similar closure. And that's all they ended up last year. Will the work of this new Competition Protection Council also come to light on the benign problems and procedures that will fall in court? The Commission's Council must also work on prevention, not as a fireman, when the damage already occurs and when there has been a market disturbance, as you have done so far. Competition is the cornerstone of the market economy, while the market economy is the cornerstone of the single internal market. I would remind you that the single internal market is the cornerstone of economic and political stability and, in addition to four freedoms, also applies to the EU's unimpaired foundation, which, unfortunately, we are not moving fast enough. Because of all the grudges expressed, but also because I'm sure you won't provide an environment in which there are no exceptions and transitional periods for competition, you can't expect SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44312	Ten minutes have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. You have 15 minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first thing I have to point out when it comes to the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers, is that the Public Procurement Act itself is not good. And he himself, in his application, is full of abuses, where certain commissions that carry out the procurement process and public procurement contractors have a certain deal. I'm going to set one example, and they're everywhere, at all levels of government, starting from local self-government to republican authorities. For example, local self-government and its commission, any one of the Administration or Construction Directorate, will carry out a special public procurement procedure for each alley, for each route digs trenches, whether heatification, sewerage or plumbing, will carry out one public procurement, although a plan and public works programme and a decision on the budget of local self-government have been made in most local self-government. As a result, because we have an absolute monopoly on the territories outside the city of Belgrade and other major cities per one or two performers of such works, and they have an absolute monopoly, because no one else on the side will come to work one 500m or a kilometer street from Belgrade, for example, in Jagodin, so in the law on identical jobs not only is the condition that public procurement must be made, but a single public procurement with the dynamics of performing works. We can set up a commission as long as you want, the law itself is such that it's being abused. Here's an example of monopoly and abuse of the Public Procurement Act. What else is being abused when it comes to public procurement? An emergency procedure or a shortened procedure is being misused. I'm going to give an example here that the Republic Administration has conducted an emergency or shortened procedure to equip the "Serbian Palace", or an old SIV building. Now somebody tell me in this country what this administration of ours justifies the urgency of a procedure in which there is no advertising on public procurement, it's a brief procedure, and only three offers are enough for the law to be respected. Then what's the commission for? Why didn't our commission react then? There's a lot of examples like that. Here we go back to that story about Maria Raseta Vukosavljevic and that salon at "Nikola Tesla". If we go back to checking the value of that public procurement, I believe we'll find similar results. So DS was in power then, DS is in power now. When it comes to monopoly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it exists today everywhere and, unfortunately, Serbia today doesn't even manage this government, it seems to me that the greater impact on all life flows has on people who have enough money to keep even the Prime Minister under control. But first, I'd like to look back at one and what an important monopoly, which today looks like no one wants to talk about. It's a monopoly in the banking sector. Thanks to the then governor of the National Bank of Mladjan Dinkic, we have a closed banking market in Serbia today. And his successor later, now the governor who resigned, also helped to have a monopoly in the banking sector. Today in Serbia, we do not have more than three or four serious banks that can affect the money market and financial flows. It started with the National Savings and then the Delta Bank, and the current "Inthesis". What do we have as a result? We have enormously high credit prices for both citizens and the economy. There's no one to compete with these banks here on the market. And today, when loans fall everywhere in the world, whether they are for citizens or for economy, in Serbia, here they are, growing. And if you mention to Veroljub Dugalić that banks should reduce interest – don't, just work. There's a high risk of unpaid interest here. If you look at the analysis, credit users, whether it's a business or they're citizens, are in line with the payers that are best in Europe, if not in the world. So, it's an extremely low percentage of unpaid loans in Serbia, and that's not why the banks that work here, thanks to the monopoly, are reducing the value of the loan. The only game banks have on the market today is who will buy more euros with extra-profits through the primary show of the National Bank that has been achieved by selling securities of value with enormously high interest. And then you expect today in Serbia to be a serious growth in economic production and living standards. When I say that it seems to me that individuals have a desire to affect all flows in Serbia, Mr. Miskovic comes out in the course of the global economic crisis and invites the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, to be allowed to suspend the payment of the income tax and to pay the value added tax, otherwise he will have to fire his workers. And, behold, our prime minister, instead of saying "if we give Miskovic, we have to give everyone, then we don't give anyone," he goes to talk and negotiate with them. The results of these negotiations are unknown to anyone. Instead of sending the tax police there to check the business, whether there is a basis for such a procedure, and that denomination Mr. Miskovic makes towards the state authorities, because the tax has to be paid by everyone, he is going to the talks on his feet. Now, that's outrageous. When it comes to this commission, after the grudges brought by many of my colleagues, I can only say that the first thing that surprises me is that, of all the candidates who participated, only one was from the economy. Only one, no one came from the economy anymore. They've come from the judiciary, from college, but no single candidate has passed without working in the economy and knowing how a monopoly is being realized outside of his office or out of the courtroom he comes from. I asked a candidate a question. He talked about how we should prepare our market for a match with new business entities that will come when Serbia is a full member of the EU. I asked a simple question, given that the monopoly in Serbia is at its peak – what about the current problems that exist, what about the large trade chains led by "Delta"? Whether it's a Tempo, a Maxi, or another of their connected faces, manufacturers and suppliers have to rent even a shelf on which they sell goods. What about the stuff that's being sold has to be secured at the "Intent Insurance" that's also connected to the Delta Company? The applicant replied that it was not the Commission's job and that the Commission could not help it. Then why are we making one of these committees? Are we going to set these people up to tell us that there is no monopoly in Serbia or how there is one, but there is no one who can and no one will react? All of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia argue that both of these commissions should be independent in their work. I seriously doubt that, Madam Minister. I doubt it because you're in no condition to provide independence to legal holders. Because it's a great shame if both the Ministry and you as the minister in charge of this, God forbid, put pressure on the holders of judicial functions. And I have the right to doubt that someone is pressuring because, behold, it is now almost half a year that the Administrative Court does not execute the Constitutional Court's decision. You must agree that all public authorities entrusted with public authority have an obligation to enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court within the shortest deadlines. Don't look at me so startled, it's just enough to read a few articles in the paper. The Administrative Court shall not execute decisions of the Constitutional Court. The board's mandates are at stake. It goes back to the retrial and never ends. What about that fact we're gonna talk about? Or is it true that the European Commission, which has requested a report on the results of judicial reform in Serbia, has been sent to our Court of Appeals to presently have six thousand cases which have not been resolved and that the Court of Appeal has sent its report on 22,000 cases? If that is true, then we are in one serious problem and I ask the question – if there is pressure on the holders of judicial functions, if the directives from the central parties are put in place, what is the most democratic Serbia in its history of the DS president? That democracy doesn't even have a "d", is enough to look at the list of candidates who passed for the Competition Protection Commission, because all public officials who are now in the commission have come to those public functions during the DS authorities. From democracy and from what the president of the DS has nothing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44314	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we established today's session agenda two days ago, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic said we would decide to form a 'Corruption Protection Commission'. That lapusus sounded funny at that point, so the MPs laughed, but unfortunately, it's not funny. The fact is that in Serbia, we have a "Corruption Protection Commission" in the image of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the commission in the image of the president of the state. If that were the case, they confirm many facts and, of course, all of what my colleagues in the SRS have been talking about today on the subject we're talking about right now. But it would be good for us to use the lapus of Mrs Dejanovic, or she to use it, so that the 'Corruption Commission' and its president, or the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, invites them to submit a report to the National Assembly, to see how much they really protected corruption and how many corruption affairs were placed under the carpet. There's definitely a lot of it, and there's a lot of it. A short time ago, news appeared on all the sites that state president Boris Tadic called, as he said, domestic tycoons, that, by example of these world tycoons, Bill Gates and 40 others who showed up in public that they had given part of their property to the state, so did those tycoons in Serbia. So, Boris Tadic says there are tycoons in Serbia, and then it would really be good if he or someone from the government explained to us how it became a tycoon in Serbia and who these people are who are tycoons and how they came to have this wealth that they are supposed to share with the state today. We Serbian radicals think that instead of this polite invitation by Boris Tadic, you should receive a call from the state's public prosecutor. You agree, Mrs. Malovic, I believe. Then it would really be a good way to solve these problems. You know, you celebrated 10 years yesterday since October 5, 2000. As for us, Serbian radicals, it is 10 years of darkness and darkness, but as of today, from 6 October 2010, none of you have the right to mention the former government that was in Serbia from 1990 to 2000, because this regime is now in power as the previous rule of Slobodan Milosevic. So don't call on that again. What Krasic said is that all possible crimes from that period are out of date. But I remind you, in the shortest, which you have marked for 10 years: Mrs. Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, Kolesar, Janusevic, the vineyard of Zoran Zivkovic, Prvoslav Davinić, etc. I've only mentioned people who've been directly in power for a period of ten years. When counterpart Krasic said that the empire retaliated, thinking, of course, of the SRS and everything you did to the SRS in an attempt to find someone who could be held accountable (unfortunately, unfortunately for us, there is no such one in Serb radicals), MPs of the ruling majority laughed. It's very symptomatic to me, and I even think that, colleague Krasic, is a great sign that you said exactly what you should have said. Because when we mentioned Mary Rushet Vukosavljevic, when we talked about a 700,000 dinar ficus, about coffee spoons that cost 700 dinars, you laughed just like you did today at Krasic's remarks. You laughed the same way when our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, sat in the assembly hall and talked about the rise of the great Russia. That's when some people wanted to laugh. Where are we today? On what the SRS propagated. And we are extremely proud that we have been on the same political path for 20 years and that we are the strongest opponents of NATO and the EU. You, gentlemen of the DOS, one or the other, are all DOS because as such you came to yesterday in 2001, for the past 10 years you have shown that you have led a devastating policy for the Serbian national interests and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of your attempts, so-called. Europeanizations are also what you called independent regular bodies, which we are talking about today. Who's independent of the DS here, for example? Here is at least one of these from the list of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council was, Mrs Malovic, a member of the RIK proposed by the DS. You know that because that's when you were. So why are we lying, why don't you say that this shift, the shift of this woman who's been at the head of this committee, is just a political game? And, so the public doesn't get confused, we don't defend her, we don't defend whoever you're going to set up today, because it's all the same round, the same game. You, in a desire to show your EU friends that you are ready for everything they do, have destroyed everything that can be done. Where are we today when it comes to competition, or protection from competition? What counterpart Natasa said (I end this sentence), there is a joke that is circulating in Serbia – Kosovo is Serbia, the rest is 'Delta'. Is that the result of your 10-year work and the struggle for some democratic principles? Thank you very much, and I apologize for speaking for a minute more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44316	Thank you, too. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr. Dejan Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44317	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened very carefully to the presentations of all the MPs and I must, at first, say that, and that is very clear, the Commission for the Protection of Competition is an independent regulatory body and the appointment of this committee to some excessive administration is extremely malice and can damage the reputation of this commission, which has a very difficult and responsible task. They mentioned a shift. So let's get this straight. There is no dilemma, the mandate of the Competition Protection Commission has expired and there is no talk of any shift, we are talking about the appointment of new members, president and members of the Competition Protection Council. Also, there have been comments and criticism about why the Commission has not been elected for nine months. That's what I've talked about many times today. So, as chairman of the Trade and Tourism Committee, I came in June and immediately tried to secure the majority for a session where we should consider candidates for the president and members of the Competition Protection Commission. I have failed to secure the majority, and I will remind you that until the other day most of this committee were members of the opposition. Finally, as far as the Commission itself is concerned, the market is, by its nature, what anyone who knows the basics of the economy is multidimensionally, and we felt good about proposing candidates for different structures and different profiles. We have proposed university professors who have a long-standing internship in the area of economic law, trade law and competition rights. We also proposed people who were very operational in their work in the field of law and economy. As far as the president himself is concerned, in the very Competition Protection Act, which we adopted last November, I think 27 members regulate the possibility that this commission will submit a first-degree solution, because in the second-degree is the administrative court's jurisdiction. We felt it was very important that, in addition to the conditions prescribed by law, the president knows the judiciary and has long-standing court practice, so that those solutions would not fall in the Administrative Court, which has been the case so far. So we can take responsibility as a committee, but we can't take that responsibility before this commission even starts working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44318	Right on line, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44319	Comrade Nikolic, I have to rephrase to you, because you are from this recent call, so we call it, not from the beginning, the Chairman of the Trade Committee, and Mr Novakovic knows very well, as former president of the Privatisation Committee, and we who were in the previous meeting, I am now a new member, from Friday, of the Trade Committee, that no report has been delivered by the Commission to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is, by the way, its obligation. She didn't do it likely because of the fact that, as I said in the presentation an hour ago, you're right, therefore, that legal possibility is a second-degree body of appeal, that is to say, to have a dispute before the Administrative Court, eight administrative disputes, and that very important, is not yet over. This scandal that happened with the Delta, with Miskovic and all that consortium and capital concentration, which now, three years post-festum, after divulging with Miskovic, admits Milka Forcan, who then denied it, you heard probably and followed her statements, you know, when those big capitalists are fighting, then everyone's gonna be wearing dirty laundry. So, these are all facts and don't convince us, because I'm not convinced by Vesna Jankovic, nor by my colleague Dimitrijevic from the SRS, that she's capable of doing this job, that's what my colleague Ostojić said this morning, because she has no knowledge of the economy, and that's, otherwise, one of the conditions, you know that very well. I've got it in front of me. On all three sides, it's her biography, that's her personal data. There has been no contact with the market economy and with the economy at all, and one of the conditions is that it has ten years of continuous experience in the area of law and economy. So this is all a farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44320	I give the word to Mrs. Snezani Malovic, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44321	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People. At the very beginning, I would like to thank everyone who participated in today's debate and to immediately apologize for not participating, as I do in the defense of certain points whose proposal is the Ministry of Justice. In this case, these are not the points that are directly in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, but certainly I supported these proposals as a member of the government, for them I am voting and standing behind them. Since today we have the choice of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Commission's choice to protect competition, I would like to express my expectations, more specifically, that their work will be transparent, as much as the debate on their choice is transparent in this distinguished home. The main objectives in forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you yourself attended in July 2008, were to step up the fight against organised crime and crime in general, corruption and European integration. These are the goals that are mutually inseparable. The very goal we set, to go through European integration and certain business that has been undertaken, among other things, is certain and normative activity, and I have repeatedly pointed out, in defending the laws that have treated this area, that we are not doing it because of the mere desire or commitment to European integration, but because we want to increase the standard of our citizens and make it possible for a better life in Serbia. Europe in itself is not our goal. When I say Europe, I mean a certain system of values, certain rules of a defined democratic country, which we seek and which we want to apply to us. I'd say the choice of these committees will contribute to that. After all, they are set by themselves to be independent, because they are chosen by this respected home, they will be responsible for your work. When we proposed at the government session, we had a debate on these candidates. I have confidence in the proposal of the Staff Committee of the Government, which I believe has carefully considered their work résumés. Whether we justify such expectations, we will see through their work. I'm sure we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44322	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. I'm concluding a joint single search. On the basis of Article 87(1), I'm setting a one-hour break. We will continue at 3:10 p.m. by considering amendments to amendments to the Budgetary System Act. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44323	We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on the BUDGETS SYSTEM (Singuality) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in connection with the search in detail of the 1st item of the agenda- Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, in addition to the representative Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, I have also called for the session to be attended by Ruzica Stojljković, Assistant Minister of Finance. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vladan Jeremic, Vladan Batic, Nenad Popovic, Arsen Đurić, Dragan Stevanovic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Branka Ljiljak, Konstavan Samofalov, Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasic, Dejan Mirović, Aleksandar Martinović, Momo Colaković, Milisav Petronijevic, Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulović, Vitomir Mihajlović, Meko Omerović, Bajram Šehović, Munir Poturak and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group. You received a notice from MP Munir Poturk to withdraw three amendments, which he submitted to Article 35 on 30 September 2010. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44324	With the amendment to Article 1, we have literally amended the basic provision of Articles 1 and the Bills and the basic by simply removing the words: Certain provisions of this law are governed by budgetary relations and rules applicable to non-Budget funds, economic operators and other legal entities in which the state, at all levels of government, has a decisive impact. The government has rejected the amendment with a reason not to accept it because it means full application of the law on the budgetary system in the business of non-Budgette funds and other legal entities, which is not in accordance with the specific laws governing their business. See what it means to tell a lie by partial statement of some attitude or silence of the rest. I therefore deliberately read what a member of the Law reads under economic operators to which all the provisions dealing with budgetary relations would apply, that this means for economic operators and other legal entities in which the state has a decisive impact on management through financial plans, etc. So, not to any economic operators, but to those who are normally obliged to apply savings. Now let's say what budgetary relations are and why I insist on this. I believe that Mrs. Minister remembers that I insisted on behalf of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia's SNS on Article 57 that it applies to all budget users, and this was the award of public procurement contracts, and now, under these specific provisions, I was just referring to this member. Why? At the time when we passed the basic Budgetary System Act, there was official data that 54.7 billion dinars of government losses due to corruption in public procurement and unpaid taxes and contributions, that was at the level of the total budget deficit, and we, because we had losses in public procurement, had to cover the deficit in the government's register by taxing wages, by collecting fuel and credit from the IMF, because part of the loan from the IMF went to the budget as well. Who can tell me that it is justified to refuse amendments that we ask to be subject to budget control, in terms of respect for the procedures and rules prescribed by, for example, the Law on Public Procurement? When you say that it would go against other laws, I'm interested in what kind of economic operators, public agencies or companies, where the state has a significant share in management or capital, would find in some irregular situation or a subordinate situation. And now all these companies fall under the Public Procurement Act because they have to make public procurement in accordance with the rules I'm talking about. So, who you don't want to control or under whose pressure you have to give in without controlling the money flows, what you're in charge of as a minister. I am convinced that it would not be difficult for you and that you are able to follow and that this is not about accounting rules or any other procedure but rather about controlling money flows and I really ask you to consider whether this provision should be deleted, as the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia has suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44325	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 1 of the Law defines the matter of the law itself. That's what we told you in the principle debate, and we're telling you one more time. I don't know why you gave up the idea of passing a special law, because I think it was incomparable, I totally agree with you, it was much better that we had a special law that would define fiscal rules and responsibilities, and that the law on the budgetary system was a law that defines matter related to the budget system. You have our full support and I don't understand why you gave up that idea. Another thing, you know, we've had different attitudes on many issues. We've had similar attitudes on many issues. I think that's the way it's supposed to be, because that's the only way we're gonna find the right way. What we don't like is that at times when Serbia has serious problems, when we have a major fiscal deficit, when we have problems in the coming years, this law does not strengthen the role of finance minister. Countries that had a strong finance minister solved problems. It is not acceptable for the finance minister to come up with one draft measure, that another minister, on the same day, is racing to say it will not survive because he has the support of a number of MPs, and the finance minister does not. The second thing is, it's saddened that this law was brought under the pressure of the IMF, because it turns out that we need to be more cared for by someone on the side than we're going to solve the problem ourselves. On the one hand, until we are aware of our problems and are ready to solve them, these problems will accumulate and there will always be some reason why these problems will not be solved. It should be noted that such fiscal liability laws exist in a large number of countries. First they were introduced by the most developed countries in the world. In the '90s, both Germany and Japan and some other countries had them. At this point, there are 80 countries in the world. These 80 countries in the world include the most developed countries, developing countries and some of the most underdeveloped countries. Therefore, it has proved that this law should exist. This law gave results only where the measures and responsibilities were very clearly defined, where there were clear responsibilities for implementing the measures. I saw your answer a few days ago. I don't know if you missed, but the rules that exist in Israel are interesting, because in Israel, the finance minister is personally responsible for implementing the established rules of economic policy. In case these measures are not implemented, he has enormous powers and resigns in case these measures are not respected. Israel has very few problems in this matter. Brazil had a law like this, but only when they introduced certain measures that sanction certain behaviours of the law began to produce certain results. What concerns us is that the fiscal council has a particularly advisory role, that many of these measures can be relativated from a particular decision. What we're particularly concerned about, not because you're here today, because you're the finance minister, but we think the finance minister had to have a much stronger and much greater role and greater responsibility, and then we'd have someone responsible for implementing certain measures of economic policy. I'll use the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44327	Dear Members of the People, in accordance with Articles 87, 2nd and 3rd of our Rules of Procedure, we will work after 1800 hours and today for the efficiency of Parliament's work. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Mr. Jeremic. The government has accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44328	It is an amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on the draft law, which is the very first member. on the subject of regulation, where we are in a third position, where the fiscal council is normally established, which independently assesses the credibility of fiscal policy from the aspect of respect for the established fiscal rule and thus supports how the proposal was proposed, and we felt that it was much more meaningful and more adapted to ensure the public and accountability of its leadership. It is interesting that this member, that is, the position of the first member of the law relating to the formation of a fiscal council, what we have had in the debate in principle of the most ensuing, i.e. the most vagueness regarding the independence of the work of one of these bodies, I will only take the opportunity to repeat that this fear remains, i.e. we really doubt the possibility that according to who proposes members of the council will be fully provided and the independence of the work. What I would also like to point out at this time is the very fact that it was later defined that some real responsibility, or responsibility for fiscal council, is practically in the government, although it was not defined what was one of the grudges – a particular responsibility for members of the council, I meant here the material and criminal responsibility of the members of this council above all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44329	The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44330	On Article 2, we tabled an amendment that was actually a re-edited amendment from July last year, where we are talking about the definition of the budget. This is not liquefying, but I simply have to illustrate, we have stated that the amendment should define the budget differently as a comprehensive income, income and expenditure plan and, in an explanation, the Government says that the amendment is not accepted because the provision contained in the bill in a more adequate way defines the budget, and in addition, I am now reading, skipping one sentence that I am not wasting time, the proposed definition covers all the elements set out in the amendment, i.e. revenues and receipts achieved on the basis of the sale of non-financial assets and expenditures and expenditures etc. I ask – did it take us a year to realize that the amendment at that time only brought together in one place to make it visible and obvious your definition of what state incomes are, where we really mean selling non-financial assets and what comes by borrowing, that government spending is a cost to obtain non-financial and financial assets and to pay off loans? That's why we insist on such a definition, and what does the total fiscal surplus and deficit mean, where what we call expenditures even then you confirm in the definition? In the absence of understanding, the 20th provision of the same article says – the total fiscal surplus, i.e. surplus and fiscal deficit, is a budget deficit, i.e. a surplus adjusted for the transaction in assets or liabilities made to implement public policies, and it writes in brackets (subsidies given in the form of budget loans or acquisitions of non-financial assets are considered expenditures). So we're no different from what we consider to be expenses and what we consider revenue. We're trying to kind of methodologically dilute the obvious of what income budgets are, the way we make it happen and what borrowings, credits and expenditures really are. In the same way, we try to call concession fees gambling revenues fortunately by no longer calling them game incomes to happiness, because they are covered by a broader concept. Is it our goal to make everything clear, comparable, visible, that we do not need instructions for use when we read the budget, that we do not need interpreters when assessing how well you did or how well the budget is not filling? We're simply talking about that there's no need for us to point out the diversity of approach by being able to see how hard this is going to work at this point, because I'm not, I'm saying, repeating and I'm going to repeat, to control all the money flows, for which she's actually given a mandate. Practically this amendment that we submitted in July, and now repeated, adopted, but normal government has the right and its task is to perform the executive function and to work, and ours is to rhetorically, mean by criticism, help to make this work even better. But it is no argument to say no – more adequate, but in fact we are talking about the same expenditures, only you are talking about two accounts of income and expenditure. The goal is to be as clear as possible and not to be in this trouble we have with Mr Dinkic and amending the Government Act. The departments, their responsibilities, every year, where you have that moving chairs and moving furniture, so that you could never establish a list, not a failure as some descriptive directory, but that you could not verify the adequateness of the use of funds. So, incomparability of items. Now that we take those final account control reports and I tell you, gambling revenues are lower this year than they were in 2007, and you tell me -- well, it's not like that, we're putting in all the concession fees now. That's exactly why you're doing it. I can't say it's macarovelistic, but it's skillful. It is simply clouding MPs and the public that they cannot compare whether and how much budget revenues are being paid per item because you will show them differently. Mr Dinkic is shutting down one export-enhancing fund, forming another, and then the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises drowns into the regional agency, and then into the Failing Development Fund, one part of the incentive funds from other purposes, simply as in the matchmaking at the bus station – now you see it, you don't see it now. You can't even say that this minister has failed and that those funds have not produced adequate results. So, it's too visible and for a serious country, it's not appropriate to deal with this kind of moving furniture, chairs, ministries and purposes, so that citizens can't see how much tax revenue is actually losing, or even how the collection of tax revenues is different by showing directions where we can't control you, or the fiscal advice you're setting up, and the richly difficult and the DRI with these capacities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44331	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric, who have the word, submitted the 2nd amendment together.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44332	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Nenad Popovic and I, on behalf of the DSS Group, have tabled an amendment to Article 2. In point 25, "to advance the culture of fiscal responsibility" is replaced by the words "to establish a system of control of fiscal policy makers with the aim of introducing the principle of fiscal responsibility". We have submitted this amendment because we believe that the fiscal council should represent an independent apolitical body that will control the implementation of fiscal policy, with the aim of introducing fiscal responsibility, not just some advisory treatment. We think that the role of the fiscal council should be far more prominent than it is written in the bill. The fiscal responsibility in the Republic of Serbia has not yet been introduced, so the formulation "to advance the culture of fiscal responsibility" in our opinion is illogical, because something that has not been introduced or that has not been respected in a way that cannot be improved, as it is said, by culture and fiscal responsibility, but must be established and introduced. I think the role of this fiscal council should be more prominent than in some countries that have a long-standing practice of that fiscal responsibility. For this reason, we have also proposed this amendment to give the fiscal council much greater and wider powers than is proposed in the text of the law. So I urge you to reconsider this amendment and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44333	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word. Are you wasting the time of the parliamentary group? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44334	Mrs Dragutinovic, Article 2 is the best proof of why a special law should be passed. This law introduces 34 new members. So the Budgetary System Act was normally a comprehensive law because it included all those entities that are indirectly and directly related to public finances, at the level of the Republic, at the AP level and at the level of all local self-government. This introduces new rules with 34 new members and 13 new concepts that have never existed before. If that's not enough reason, with the very importance of this matter, to be a matter of special law, I don't know what should be a special law. This is best seen in Articles 1 and 2. You've pointed that out several times. I'm saying that you can see it specifically in these first two members in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44335	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44336	I would use what Mr. Obradovic said. For the SRS, Madam Minister, it doesn't matter whether you've regulated it like this, by amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, or whether you've been prepared to write some new law. Basically, what we have highlighted in the principle debate is that we are afraid that there is no political will for the elements of fiscal responsibility that you establish and define essential applications in practice in our fiscal system. That's an objective problem. That's the problem you'll be facing too. What you have offered as a proposed solution is largely abstract in many places. That's the kind of thing I've tried to say through this amendment of mine. I fear that there will be no political will to apply this law from local communities to the republican authorities, that many who will be obliged to apply it will not even understand it, and that that is exactly what they will call themselves when they decide on abuses or attempts to pass the law or legislative norms, as you are through this law. My amendment refers to Article 2, to these definitions. You have here from 51a to 51g) envisaged some new definitions, you have included them in the law, such as: management responsibility of managers, internal financial control in the public sector, financial management and control and internal audit. A lot of things that you've listed and counted here, and even if it wasn't defined by law, anyone who has public funds should at least have so many feelings that they have and that these principles are nurtured, developed and applied in their practice. But, specifically as far as the amendments are concerned, it refers to this definition of "financial management and control". Here you have written that it is a system of policies, procedures and activities that it establishes, maintains and regularly updates the organisation's manager, who manages the risks, be careful now, "convincing to a reasonable extent that the objectives of the organisation will be achieved at a proper, economical, etc. "the way." We believe that this is absolutely unnecessary "convincing to a reasonable extent", that it is completely abstract and that each of the public service managers can interpret it in their own way and hide all of his misdemeanors and incompetence behind this abstraction that you have offered us through a legal solution. We suggested you drop it. You rejected the amendment, and in your explanation you wrote that the term "reasonable assurance" was defined in the rules on common criteria and standards for the establishment and functioning of a financial management and control system in the public sector. I'm sorry, you can't have the law, and it's the Budgetary System Act, to comply with the rulebook. I guess some lawyer or I don't know what logic or legislative logic requires rules to be done or derived from the law. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if you reconsidered that rulebook, changed it, examined it. If there wasn't this much abstraction in the rules and in the laws, maybe you wouldn't even have headaches today like you do when it comes to public finances. The time and position of this country in economic and financial terms requires you to be clear, concrete, so that you know what you are looking for and what you want from those to whom this law will apply. This, reasonable measures, etc., should be understood by people who use the budgets of some local self-government, public business officials, directors and so on. This job has nothing to do with it, so we ask you to be specific, clear and decadent, and we suggest you get the abstraction out of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44337	That was the time of the authorized representative. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44338	I will use this amendment only as a reason to point out some details that may help those who are following this area. What exactly is this about? The thing is that one regulation, which would have to be very precise, concrete, clear, understandable, is done in such a way that it simply does not meet any of these criteria that I have stated. We don't need regulations with concepts that are at the level of theoretical reasoning about something. After this intervention that you've done, which I'm really disappointed with, because I expected something much better, more quality, I have to tell you something else, we're getting into a situation now to think about whether this bill essentially has a good name. Is this really supposed to be the fiscal policy law, as the most comprehensive thing, because after so many interventions, this is no longer the Budgetary System Act. Let me get on with this. We expected a clear regulation that would regulate the system of public income and public expenditure and, within that budget, as a technical means to reflect, among other things, how much the state costs taxpayers. We don't have all of this right now, but we have one theoretical debate as simple, so we use some of the terms used by theory, they appear somewhere in the thinking of some NGOs, and I don't dispute that there's that as a legal term or norm in some Western European countries. It's now in that system-- the outside smoother, and the inside of the poor. Nice, nice that it can't be nicer, but it doesn't solve the essence, it absolutely doesn't solve the essence. Given the lack of discipline, not to use a harsher word that would gossip more to the truth, we need a regulation that should regulate the system of public revenue and public expenditure, in a way that makes it clear what is called consolidated public spending balances. Based on this regulation and these interventions, we're going to have so many essential peripheral things where the essence is lost, absolutely loses its essence. I don't argue that these terms are very necessary with their meaning for some empirical research, for some analysis, for some estimates and so on, but this burdens the law that needs to meet all the other conditions -- comprehensibility, clarity, applicability, accountability, I think this is a blur. I'm not surprised that you resorted to this because you simply might want to, but at this point it's not possible that the Ministry of Finance has an insight into full public spending at the level of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it resorts to different, conditionally said, principles defined in this law and after these changes that will in practice mean nothing because they will have a dominant influence -- political positioning of people who exercise power. At present, our government has three feeds, each of these feeds has a coalition and essentially a complete budget and complete public spending is divided into three groups, equal groups, because each group wants to be Santa Claus at the time of the election campaign and the positioning, so that those who are asphalting, and all of them are paved into the next stage, should divide the citizens at the point and the picket, to break down that asphalt because there is a time for the asphalt to be nutritious matter, because other matter will not be. It's free of this kind of debate if public enterprises don't apply the Public Procurement Act. Then who should the Public Procurement Act be bound by? If he doesn't commit to electricity, why would he commit a public utility? If he doesn't commit to the one who spends the most, he has the most, why would he commit a public utility in a municipality with 15-20 thousand residents, where the question of whether the public company can function at all. This is the main topic of today's debate. Are all beneficiaries of the funds, so those who make public expenditure and expenditure, covered by this budgetary policy and the budgetary system? No, they're not. They're not covered by para-state authorities. In particular, they are not covered by the part where they appear on the market as one of the Contracting Parties. We have to say, in the exercise of these public powers or matters of general interest, they appear on behalf of the state. The state has created a public enterprise because the state cannot deal with economic activity, and this activity is an unimaginable condition for life and work – waterway, sewerage, steam heating, etc. The question arises in principle – what are we doing? How to reconcile public spending? I'm saying this to make it clear that after these changes, there is a normative papacy, a mix and something that will essentially allow for different interpretations and different applications, and that means the absence of any responsibility for spending these funds. Of course, representatives of the government can swear here that their intentions were different, that they completely wanted to achieve another goal, and I'm no longer ready to listen to it. At first I say, I don't believe it. You think you can fool me. You can't fool me, I don't believe you, I know DOS is the worst, no matter what aggregate state it is. If I said that in 2001, I have even more reasons to say in 2010, because you didn't deny it by any move, but you just confirmed it, you proved it. So it's a regulation. There will be a story again - European, terrible-European, European-European, NATO-European, however you will, but how much of a measure for European quality, it is daily life under DOS, which has become increasingly unbearable every day. Since the theoretical debate, we've had nothing to do with these concepts. There's only traces of something that's wrong, which is absolutely bad. I don't want to get involved in that kind of debate, whether it was supposed to be this word or another, whether it was in Serbian or in English or in quasi-English or whether it was in or out or primitively simple, I don't want it. That's what you're free to discuss to the pleasure of your media. I'm just warning you that behind those words there's something dangerous, dishonest, dangerous about the citizens, because we're going to be over-indebted. We're already in charge. Just to tell you, when I tell you, or when someone convinces you like Bozidar Djelic that 10 years after he lives much better, believe him, he really lives better, but those who have been standing before the Assembly and who have burned it live badly. I ask that you use the term "European" more often, to make them completely disgust when they think of DOS, because that word is so negative in the Serbian people that you may not be aware of it, but I encourage you to use the word as much as possible, both sooner and better. I need to draw your attention to one more thing. Why do we make these regulations if we have the Public Debt Act? You wanted to, first you started with that "euro Mr.", that's Mr. Singer, and now he's the director of the French bank, Pitic. You remember in 2001, it was a "myster of the Euro". When you ask him something, he says a donation of so many million euros, this is how many million euros, just the euro, the euro and the euro, to say after a year, we have to put order into these donations, because they're slipping away, they're gone, donations are lost. The public secret is, 35% of all loans come back, or they don't come here, and that's the service. Those who give money teach us how European it is, and to teach us well, they have to charge, because it is the West, who buys the product, he respects you. When you get the product for free, you don't respect it, you throw it away. So the cheese is just free in the mouse. Then you said, we have to seduce order in that borrowing, not everyone can be in charge. I'm telling you that what you're leading as a debt of the state, as a public debt, as a commercial arrangement, so it appears as a debt of this people is at the ultimate convention. We have witnessed how many times you've brought here regulations on the conversion of some debt into public debt, so it's an excuse used in the area of agriculture, but nothing has been given to peasants from these services, so contributions have been used. I don't want to remind you much, because there won't be anything in the paper or any other media to remember, but I have a computer, so I'm doing a review every day and I'm recording what you're doing, and when you complain, and when you brag, and you're always right when you attack each other, you're always telling the truth. That when you shoot each other, you're right, I support each other, and I always support each other when you accuse each other. That's because you think you're not equal in kidnapping, kidnapping inequality causes a series of articles. So it's not Chanaka, it's articles. Canak enters when he is due to vote, promises 5,000 euros, he raises his hand, as 126 is done with the job and that's democracy. Explain to me what other democracy is? Thought process, please don't. So, it's the law where we're told, the government and the president want to seduce order in public finances, because they also notice that someone's out there carrying something. I don't believe you. Why? Because I'm obliged to appeal to experience, to use some intelligence. You know, you double-cross a man once, but I never let you fool me once. Those who have agreed to your fraud bear that kind of responsibility and suffer damage. Whoever trusted you got hurt. Anyone who trusted DOS got hurt. Mrs Dragutinovic, just to remind you, Mladjan Dinkic made a report this big in 2005, has it on 600 pages, and this is about abuses in the use of donor funds for reconstruction of the Federal Assembly building. I think Zoran Shami was president of the Federal Assembly at the time, an extremely good report. In that building over there, I was three or four times punished for it. Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic has already owed me two years, she promised me that I would get an answer to that question, I didn't get it, but I know it, Mrs. Djukic, I have a report, because, you know, I've sown my people everywhere, and you haven't turned around yet, we know what you're doing. I support Dinkic when he told what Dragoljub Micunovic was doing with reconstruction. The reconstruction hasn't been completed for 10 years, it's been reconstructed, what's broken hasn't been restored, what's been stolen in the democratic changes with torches, it's not done yet. I'm just going to remind you, if anyone thinks from here that this intervention on this bill is going to bring one knoll, that little, good for the state and the people, I'm ordering that there is no change of security to share that belief. As far as citizens are concerned, DOS is the worst. There can't be anything worse in this country than DOS, whatever the aggregate composition is. The aggregate composition can be whatever you want, and you can mix it up, and it can be solid, anyway. (President: Let me just ask you to return the apparition to fiscal discipline. I'm just quoting Chanka, because he said: "Shut your nose and vote DOS." And today we put up with it, because it's easy for him to shut his nose and put money in his pocket, and what do these people who lost everything do, they've lost hope, and you're giving them fear wherever they turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44339	The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44340	This amendment is basically similar to the amendment that Mr Krasic and I spoke about, and it refers to a new definition that you have also introduced here, which is an internal revision. We also think that part of this definition is abstract, which we just said. I would like someone to explain to me what this means – independent objective conviction and advisory activity. It can be interpreted any way you want. What's independent, what's objective and how you're going to convince who and so on. Of course, this category of internal audit, the objective question is asked whether it makes sense to talk about it. It is impossible that there has been an internal audit obligation so far, so remember the DRI report and we mentioned it in the principle debate. So how many ministries have implemented and had internal control in place and that is just proof of how many managers and at all those who create this public policy, I mean public finance policy, and how aware they are of the importance of internal audit and internal control. We are confident that everything will continue to be the same and the same and that such a defined internal audit will not commit them to anything. In order to have any concerns about internal audit, but to show you the political will to conduct it in the public sector, then things, we believe, could be different in this Serbia in a year, so not perhaps medium-term, but in the long term you can expect budget deficits to be designed for us as, about, you want to design them. This way, with abstractly written rules and old manners of those who manage the public sector, we won't get anything, the situation and agony will just continue to continue. In your explanation, you wrote that the amendment was not accepted for the reason that the definition given in the bill was taken between internationally accepted professional practices of internal audit covering the definition of... I don't want to read any more. It's nice to take over from the international professional practice definition, but it would be nice to finally start both manners and behaviors in practice from international practice to take over. That's what you're supposed to do at last. Those stories were won in 2000. To this day, this political, fiscal, economic and whatever you want, you haven't established the principles. Where in this sense has the state gone beyond the time you came to power, gained great trust from citizens, promising them order in the sphere of finance, in the economy, in the area of social policy, etc.? We're economically destructive, socially disfigured, politically discredited, without any credibility anymore, nationalally disgraced, and we're telling the story, as it says here, about objective persuasion and advisory activities, etc. You are expected, Madam Minister, at least from our corner, from our prism, to be specific and not to believe that you can, but you were expected to bend the whip and to put those who spend the money of all taxpayers, with mechanisms that the state objectively has, in order. We'll be back and we'll get to the council later. Budgetary inspections, inspection bodies whine about the conditions in which they work. These 80 million, as much as you've predicted for the council, to give them, to go and chase unconscious public officials. How much is the public sector's debt, what is the debt of public enterprises founded only by the Republic? Billions of dinars. We talked about 45%, it's not much, but we're going to come up with stories about these master standards, etc., what's covered, what's not. So, you wrote all this well, but we're afraid that neither one of us will understand this, nor will care much about this, and it will remain the same as it has been in an economic sense so far, we'll just go down.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44341	The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44342	Article 4 has been commented by me and Mrs. Minister in the principle debate, but let's get to know the public what this is all about. I was happy that the authority of a professional and professional person in the image of Mrs Diana Dragutinovic was given her respect and strength of the authority of the finance minister, who wonders who will be on the list of users of indirect and direct budget users. This means, for those who do not know, that at the end of the year, the rights of panic at the level of local self-government, state authorities, government bodies, public agencies, who will pull what ties not to be found on the list of those to be controlled by the finance minister. Because the finance minister will look at their account, grant approvals for the payment of free money, and they will have to comply with many criteria that we, citizens, mean that the finance minister controls the budget funds or funds that charge the authorities as monopolies, issuing various kinds of assurances, documents, from the Central Register, which gives you confirmation of actions, up to there a company that deals with construction, and can first of all in its ties and ties to get under your firm's firm arm, professional, professional and authoritative persons in the image of a man, but first of all in the function of the finance minister. I was really happy that things were like that, believing in you personally and in the strength of those who support you, that their sincere intention was to control the flow of money through you. What's going on? Through alleged practice, as you explained, the participations and the statistical authority, now this article 8, otherwise good and otherwise gave us the right to believe in you, changes so that the Republic Office for Statistics once a year, in collaboration with you, makes that list. You assured me and my MP group of SNS that you would continue to wonder, but that the practice in the world is that it is done by statistical authorities. It can't be the first statistical authority we've recently passed here, two other laws have been discussed here when we discussed statistics, the Law of Registration in the Court Register was also current. I don't know if you, Madam Minister, remember, but statistics, or someone who now manages statistics, which is the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, have been doing a special treatment for that statistical authority and only the NBS has given itself a special right not to give its statistics to anyone, and that, when it is necessary to exchange them with someone, the governor must personally give consent to certain data. That kind of destruction of the finance minister's authority, if you don't see it, we see the rest of us. By urging you to allow wild items to enter the budget, such as 621 – the acquisition of financial assets, and it is about having a quasibank in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So, instead of being in the bank's lending system, we have a ministry, it's not the only one that deals with lending, but then the loan itself trusts the Development Fund, so when it happens, it says -- no, it's not my fault, it's what those in the Development Fund did. So the finance minister must be first-named and first-guessed and first-responsible for the list of indirect and direct beneficiaries of the budget, so that he can control the money flows, under one. Two, you can't take it as a finance minister, because you're like a woman with a special sense of teamwork, abuse your well-intention, team co-operation, or, I can say, coalition capacity is questionable if you don't agree to blackmail, that someone through the NIP, through subsidies, is actually questioning the budget. And instead of asking the IMF the question of these subsidies that shouldn't be there, not to deal with lending to the ministry as a quasibank, but to the banks, and that's not a way to encourage the development of the economy and encourage employment, but rather to provide someone with a secure job, and without work because they have a shortcut to someone in the government, you have agreed to an alleged European practice that the Statistics Authority is editing that list. Neither is it a formal matter, nor is it merely a matter of perceiving world practice. The intention is behind this, and I know the experience well, because since the 1990s, I have been engaged in banking, finance and budgets, and since 1992, as an MP, I have been engaged in public revenues and budgets, and its execution, and its abuses, and in the list of indirect and direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources, and I also have to deal with the literature of the Budgetary System Act, and then the final framework where you prescribe what item you will find. So I'm right to tell you, when you're putting a few items into one, I have the right to ask you if you're doing it because you need us to have insight, so we've been comparing it since 2000, ever since history started, everything in front of us isn't valid, so until 2010, how some of the items have changed and grown or decreased, or is the goal of just not having that insight? You assure me that the goal is for the public to have insight. That's the goal of all of us, but if you're building a few items into one goal, there's no comparison. If the IMF says - we are setting you up in certain tables of the programming budget so that we can compare you to our rules, why don't you seek as finance minister because of your MPs, according to which you are very correct when you give an explanation, to maintain the comparison of budget items by nature inflows of individual incomes, privatisation, concession fees, revenues from games of happiness, penalties, pens and everything else that has been in the budget for years, but you always justify yourself - but that's the practice? . Wait, and tell them what our practice is, so do a report for them where these items will be collected, and leave us with transparency, so make sure everyone who uses the budget funds that you're the finance minister, even though you're one lady who doesn't have to slap her hand on the table, but needs to show this member of the law her strength, where she can't give up. Some finance minister really has, since you already have a profession, you have enough professionalism, why does the Ministry of Finance, as the most important, have to give in to the coalition capacity of this government? I'm not saying that to preserve your government, but to have as citizens an insight into the spending of funds and to benefit all together from that insight, not allowing upstream gloves to drain money through various NIP subsidies, so today we acknowledge that painting is not investment maintenance. Today we are admitted, she admitted to the National Investment Plan, that they had made a promise behind which they cannot stand and that it could not be completed corridor because they had no projects. We believe that there is something, and when we come to power, there is no such thing as a responsible spending of funds, and according to the items shown, then, as a report to the MPs, make sure that these records are truly reliable and based on real documentation. So, the goal of my insistence on Article 8, where you as first-guessed define yourself, was no accident. Since the Budgetary System Act has appointed you responsible as Minister of Finance for the implementation of the budget, I have asked it to be the Government, then by amendment on behalf of the SNS. Now the government is showing up because you weren't able to tell the other ministers what the criteria and the priorities of the use are, etc. Not because you have no great power, on the contrary, I believe you have it, because the one who has the theoretical knowledge and the desire to change something, he can, but unfortunately political support is lagging behind. I have the impression that it is getting smaller in terms of preserving the authority of the finance minister, the finance ministry and the growing political support we have as a state within the state that we actually have a clear insight into fiscal responsibility in the name of what this law is changing today. Please, I appeal, there is still time to end, fight for the independence behind which it will stand, I am confident, 250 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44343	11 minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group have been used, and I apologize, since your amendment is nine minutes and thirty seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44344	Now I'm going to be a little shorter because I've been asking this issue a parliamentary question, and the Kragujevac was at stake. Article 5 This time we asked the minister to arrange a way to place free money and that you allow someone to place a surplus of what is found on his account, unless there are no unsettled obligations to suppliers and contractors and is not in charge of the current liquidity. Because we had a lot of complaints, a lot of parliamentary issues in which the contractors who worked for the state at some lower level, for example at the level of the town of Kragujevac, were actually stopped at work, blocked, and now they are probably also in pre-flight procedures, because working with someone who, as a rule, did not carry out their obligations, are largely in debt due to loans taken and I am quite meaningful on behalf of the MP group Advanced Serbia's SNS asked you as competent to introduce such a restriction. Card towers built on credits collapse daily. I'm not just talking about some trade chains, some banks from the big world to the nearest environment, I'm talking about local self-government, or bankruptcy that can't be declared to the state, but it clearly exists at the level of some local self-government. Madam Minister, I asked you a parliamentary question – do you control the level of duty of the town of Kragujevac in terms of State aid control, that is, in addition to giving up their budget revenues in advance, extending not the red carpet, but the carpet of our budget funds converted into euro financing and bringing in Fiat, where did the current coalition come into power, and are you someone who is competent to control, who is competent to speak as much as they can? You've given one answer that doesn't say much, and it's still saying that on behalf of the current government's coalition capacity, you can't tell the town of Kragujevac - stop borrowing. The town of Kragujevac does not owe its contractors work and suppliers, but it is not a lonely case, many cases where they owe the performers, are owed beyond budgetary capacity in terms of the possibility of collecting income. What's it worth this morning's news that first they're going to work the heat and heat the Kragujevci, if we all know, because we have a committee group there, how does a local self-government actually work at minus? You wrote to me in response to this amendment that it is understood that those who place free funds are liquid and have no obligation. Are you really prepared to claim that you have credible documentation that they provide you with, that they do not have debts when they place funds, or to convince you that they do not have some sort of deposit at the end of the year that they need to pay you in the budget, and they do not do so, but they continue to hold funds in some business banks where, on those means, on the means of citizens, free and neutral, they actually get some privileges, visible or invisible? The affairs of banks in the environment show that, by the law of physics and by the law of finance, money cannot flow, because it cannot change the situation and it cannot be anything, nor can money lose its mark, it is only a matter of will to trace the loss of money. I really think that in the name of the seriousness of a single state, as a solid payer or a bailiff, a solid jet in local self-government, do not allow the borrowing and making supposed successful presidents of municipalities and I say, it is not the only municipality, but to ask them for precise information about whether they have any armed funds and whether they can be in debt according to the revenues they make in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44345	Three minutes and 10 seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44346	I explained this amendment a little while when I asked Ms. Minister why the amendment was rejected so that the individual income from interest, income from privatisation, fees from the organisation of the authorities was not shown in Article 6; other public revenues established by law, precisely because of such revenue schedules in Article 19. So, nothing new, I didn't ask for anything more detailed to be done with this amendment, just to keep the formula from Article 19 right here in Article 14 so that we can monitor how revenue is collected. I can only repeat the question, do you want us to have an insight into how you charge and spend money or not? By refusing this amendment, I don't think you want us to have an insight into the spending of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44347	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 8th amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44348	The reason why the amendment was submitted to Article 8 or Article 19, where it is required to specify and realise privatisation incomes as a special income that must be shown is precisely why we can argue about its method, ways, ways as we have come to the misery in which we are. We can also argue about the roads and ways to get out of this misery, but we do not argue that the privatisation revenues remained beyond the budget largely, that the Privatisation Agency is one of the flagrant examples that the state has failed that the job it was in charge of doing, selling businesses and that those who have lost their jobs in these companies find and create employment conditions in other businesses and that large funds have been misused in privatisation. The reason for this amendment was the minimum of your statement whether you were ready to make what Mr Djelic once called a one-time income, so it should not be shown in the budget, he declared it in 2003, and then it proved necessary, thank God for the pressure of someone on the side, that it must be shown in the budget. Since privatisation is not over, on the contrary, we have a reprivatisation that is done through the conversion of claims, through subsidisation, through the bankruptcy law, don't forget, where if you don't pay the advance in time everything that's called the property of the company becomes property of the state. It was then, Mrs. Comic, when we didn't have electricity, so we went out for a pay phone and we passed that law, so maybe someone missed that terrible provision where there's another way to re-eatize this country. So it'll be more likely for election reasons to try to sell it once again, so it's back under the wing of the state to sell again. I insist that the privatisation revenues be specifically shown. This morning, when the news arrives, I repeat, that the Energy Project is once again owned by the state in a way, when contracts with certain companies where contractual obligations have been made to the Agency, and according to some others that extend deadlines several times, contracts do not break up, you must not allow citizens of Serbia, that MPs do not have insight into privatisation revenues, especially since you are world experts from the IMF agree that privatisation in Serbia, although late, has been done quickly, without effects, and with the passing of funds that you will have to show accounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44349	One minute and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. On Article 11 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov. This amendment has been accepted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. This amendment has been accepted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The People's MP Konstantin Samofalov submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. This amendment has been accepted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to comment on this amendment along with the amendment that was before this, the amendment of counterpart Dejan Mirovic, which the government has accepted, because they refer to the same member, and indirectly point to some of the principles and attitudes of the Government relating to this chapter, the procedure and the adoption of a report on fiscal strategy. In view of Article 27g, paragraph 3, it states that, with or without a fiscal council opinion delivered, unless it has been delivered within the prescribed time limit, the minister is preparing a draft report on the fiscal strategy. Here you have accepted the amendment and deleted this – or without it unless it has been delivered within the prescribed deadline, because indeed what is the budget calendar, what is the fiscal advice, if someone has an obligation, and also does not have to make an obligation to deliver an opinion. This amendment that you have not accepted, and it is in the same member of this law, may speak most of the essence, nature and idea of all that is offered to us by the MPs. In fact, counterpart Martinovic asked for the last position to be changed and it is said that the government is obliged to accept recommendations made by the National Assembly, such changes are entered into the revised report on the fiscal strategy delivered to the National Assembly before the budget proposal is submitted for next year. What did we want here? We wanted to oblige the government here to accept the suggestions of the National Assembly. I guess that's how we need to understand the control function on one side of the Assembly, and on the other hand we understand that this is the most representative body and that it's only impossible to modify the will of the majority in this home. Beware of this response, he says, the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is in accordance with the Government's Constitution to determine and conduct politics. Who's defending you with this amendment? How do we defend you from the congregation to establish and conduct politics? Mrs Dragutinović, you can't get in practice any policy that you determine until it gets a blessing or support here. Is that true? That's right. Now I ask you, with what right can the Government ignore the majority's position if the majority in this assembly wants to give some suggestions on this fiscal report. What does that mean? You run politics and you won't accept the majority's position here. What if, at the moment of defining the fiscal report, a different majority is constructed that will not replace your government, but will have a different view, where most of what the government has proposed. Who are you not to accept? That's right, I'm asking you who you are not to accept, not you personally, but the government. What parliamentaryism and principles of parliamentaryism and democracy are we talking about today in Serbia? This is an indicator of what is the intention of what? The government wants to protect itself first. This devalues the weight of the council without talking about the congregation. When it is not binding for you what the congregation tells you, what do you care what the advice says? The Council, which, among other things, is the fact that, as you have written here, we have an active participation, today we are discussing this, this law will vote and, of course, we will vote in favour of the council, and your majority will vote in the council that you, Boris Tadic and Dejan Šoštic will propose. Such a political dispersion, imposes an idea. All opposed to each other. You're telling us we're going to have active participation here. In what? What you've predicted with your budget calendar. When will the Assembly deliver its opinion – August 31st, when do we not work? It's a deadline for us and for you to trust us as active participation in this story, you've entrusted us with August when we're all at sea, those who can't sit anywhere. You're very generous. You're very broad. That's ridiculous. I'm interested, but there was a report in this assembly that we didn't discuss, which was just a committee. This assembly has never discussed any final budget accounts from the previous year from 2001 to the day of today. In the morning we held a debate here, a report by the Competition Protection Commission, also required by law never came to this parliament. You're trying to convince us that we have active participation in all of this? Don't mess with the Constitution and the law. Don't let the government you're sitting in demeaning the assembly. You are obliged both by law and by the Constitution to accept the suggestions given by the most legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44351	Three minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44352	Article 15 is one of the key members of this law and it would be good to write down special letters in stenographic notes, as one member covers 10 members and that member defines the whole law relating to part of fiscal responsibility. We talked about it a few days ago, it seems to me two days ago, when it was a principle debate, because this law defines all the key rules that were most talked about in public. The minister explained that when it comes to the general debt of the state, he does not include the many responsibilities that the state de facto has, which is interesting and I think it is and how it should be thought when it comes to this law. On the one hand, we have a criterion that defines the debt of the state. What's all the state? It is obvious that this is a matter of discussion because the general level of state does not cover the obligations of the National Bank, does not cover the funds that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn on the basis of those funds of the increased quotas that we had from the IMF, but these are the funds that must be returned. I think there's a second parameter that defines in a much better way both the possibility of borrowing and the debt of the state. When you go to the bank to ask for a loan, no one asks you, they ask you all sorts of things, but among other things, they ask you what your salary is and how much you can be obliged to pay back one year. When we compare ourselves to the master criteria, we said it was an agreed criterion, most countries did not accept it and that is the problem the EU has. When the crisis came, everyone there relativated that 60 percent criterion, because we saw that Greece owed much more. Serbia's debt at the moment, the government of the Republic of Serbia alone, without some other things, is about 36-37%, but here it is important to be in debt at several times the interest rates that other countries are in debt. I quoted the European Commission documents a few days ago that said that in August, while in debt of 13-14%, Croatia was in debt at 3.3%, Montenegro 3.36%, Bulgaria even for two and a half years, but with interest 3.4%, Macedonia for six-month bills, without foreign exchange clause 5%, with foreign clause 4.7%, and Romania 7%, and it sold records at 6.5%. So if you're in debt at 14%, then for the same amount of credit you need several times more resources than when you're in debt at 3 or 3.5%, so one criterion can be the general level of debt, but another criterion is our ability to repay those funds. It seems to me that and how important it is, a team before considering that we have obligations or that we have to have an obligation to invest in a pension fund every year another 5, 6, 7, 8% of GDP and in a number of other funds that some of these countries don't have. The second thing, it seems to me that 45% may sound nice to you, but it's obvious that we're still waiting for a few years of budget deficit, both in 2011 and 2012, the team before public investment is excluded from this amount, up to 2% of investments. It's not good that the deficit can be greater than planned if the funds are used for public investment, up to a maximum of 2% over the planned deficit. What I'm talking about is 3-4% when we start to cut to the mid-term and the long-term does not involve public investment because we and how we have to fix and build corridors and all other things. They're extra funds. Therefore, it is likely that by the end of the term of office of the government that the limit will be reached. So what do we do? If we count well, 37 to 45 is only 8%. The second thing, today it appeared in the press a sign of the government's plan for the next 10 years that Serbia will emerge from the crisis. Mr. Bajec and some other economists spoke. Among other things, it says that for the next ten years, it will be expected that the euro course will be 134 dinars, pessimistic forecasts and optimistic, that there will be 124 dinars. Do you believe that? Is there anyone who believes that in the next 10 years, a course will go away in just 18 dinars? Such things raise serious doubts about all the serious documents that were seriously handled. That's the same thing, if we say that our deficit will only be 8% higher than it is today, so this Assembly has adopted a number of loans that have not yet been withdrawn, when these loans are realised, it will increase public debt. Let's talk seriously. We can pretend we can't see these things, but it won't help either of us or anyone else. That's the facts. Therefore, when we speak openly and in the right way and consider all of this, we will surely take the lead in solving the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44353	Five minutes and 30 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, with apologies to MP Dragan Stevanovic. I wrongly said how much time was used, because I overlooked it and thought it was talking about its amendment, and it was about the amendment of Aleksandr Martinovic, so five minutes and 10 seconds, not three minutes and 10 seconds. I'm sorry, I thought it was your amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44354	Mrs. Comic, if you haven't noticed, there is only one more Democrats in the O.R. As for the mighty G17 plus there are four.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44355	People's MP, I think we're all in this House of Democrats.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44356	No, we're radical Democrats, you didn't interpret us well. We're turbo Democrats in relation to you. Just to inform you, so you don't enjoy that bliss. Why did I say this? To remind you of the concept of restitution. Zika Gojkovic from the SPO is not here, he is only because of the restitution of the MP, but there is my friend Nikola Novakovic, who swore, until the restitution is complete, he is not moving from this place. I hope I got it all right. Let me remind you of some more details. When you lied fatly in 2000, those who talked, I don't talk about individuals, when they lied fatly, they said - restitution, kidnapped. Everything has to come back, what the communists have inherited from the Socialists, the dirty, the dirty, the bad, they're the ones who are with you now in power, but it doesn't matter. Let me remind you. It is said, "It will come back." There's no problem. He'll be back. I have to let the public know about the nationalized, and some of the confiscated assets, even less, some of them came back. The government of Domazette in Nis returned everything. The Democratic Party's fins have returned. What about ordinary citizens? Believe it, Nikola, you know it, joy. So, for ten years, they're about to bleed out, promising and convincing people that it'll all be over. Just to remind you -- on January 25th 2001, the first democratic government in Serbia's history, Yugoslavia, was formed as you say. Apparently, some Democrats were elected president. That's why it's all democratic. If someone else had been elected, it wouldn't have been democratic. When they asked him a question – what about the restitution, when we did, it was said that it was a complicated process, that it was better not to touch it. In 2003, others were promoted as restitutors in the election campaign. They were in power – none of the restitutions. Right, Mr. Novakovic? That's right. I'm just reminding you. I know it's a little hard, but what do I do, that's my job. So, no restitution. In Article 15 of this law, he is an omnibus, he has an entire alphabet, this is e), another attitude is said to be "except", right, Mrs Dragutinovic, says – not including restitution obligations. Let's focus on that. Now someone tell me when this restitution will be? I can tell you right now - never. You had a chance to pass the law, so you didn't adopt it. Why didn't you when you had most? Nikola, these guys have to deal with you later. But you guys finish it later. Now in one text of the bill something is inserted which is absolutely uncertain whether there will be a future obligation. So, is there going to be a future commitment? You don't know. Keep going. The issue of restitution has been even more complicated in the meantime, because if you open that issue of restitution you hit Miskovic directly, and that is dangerous. You struck directly at these oligarchs, who in the meantime strengthened, and just to remind you that 15 years ago they were common criminals. But now they're oligarchs. Now they're flying planes, jeeps, they've got fairies, they've got media, they've got television, they've got Cursage Orders as the predecessor to the Pride Parade, they've got it all. They also have a government. We know they have a government. Remember when it was in 2003 the Building of Objects Act? It was the same thing. In that room there was a Shumarac who said – in 30 days there will be solutions for building buildings, everything will be fine. We have the expansion of lawless construction from that law. Mr. Dulic came last year. He, as an orthopedist, wants to deal with the building because he can no longer put his feet together when they fall into the shaft because he doesn't have a lid and he thinks it's a connection to the building, well, he's passed a law, with opposition to the league and all possible restitution, because property rights are recognised on city building land that's clearly been kidnapped by some people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44357	Mr. Krasic, your eloquence and manner of expression can also entertain MPs, but please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44358	I'm about to entertain them, and then I'm gonna hit that deadly blow after the Empire strikes back. I want to cheer them all up first, make them laugh at themselves. Citizens are not allowed to follow this transmission. They're just reminding themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44359	Citizens in the election say what they think of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44360	They said, ma'am. There's no need to worry. Here, it can be the election, and it can be without a choice. Remember what it was like on October 5th? So, not including restitution obligations. In translation it means stutter. It's not gonna happen. But it's important because of the follow-up in this article. That means, how much can we be in debt? In translation, dear citizens – how much we can spend unearthed, or we'll just make money. We spend first, and when we make money, it doesn't matter. Same as the restitution. Then a call is made to some percentage that is valid in the European Union. That percentage is not valid in the EU. When it comes to the ongoing financing of budgets and the possibility of borrowing, there is a standard of up to 3% of gross social products in Europe, all countries are in breach of what they are in the EU. I'll tell you something else. If it weren't for what they call the Western Balkans, if it weren't for this Serbian people, the EU would have no agreement point. The Constitution, the Statute, the Council -- they can't agree. Common foreign policy – cannot be agreed. The common monetary policy – cannot be agreed. Joint funds and access to funds cannot be agreed. Of course, this is not what our government shows in the media, but it is a problem in communication between EU countries. How do they experience the EU? They feel like they're something you can take and you don't have an obligation. Nothing can make you take it. But we're some excuse, and that's some point that they all agree on, and when they agree, then through their column here and the media shows that it's all European standard. The differences are huge. Because their national economies make sure there's no capital spills, no matter what capital has become global, no matter what formal legal limits there are for the movement of goods, capital, labour force and other things. Here's a nice example. So, a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, when he settles in Paris because certain skin colors are being deported, although the EU has guaranteed him the status of a citizen of Europe. Why was he deported? There's no money. The status of citizens of Europe is guaranteed only to consumers, to those who have money. Those who are social cases or demand that work earn something on another EU territory are not desirable persons. Let's move on. How is funding done in Western Europe? Not in the way it is represented here as a European standard. You need to know that the EU, the EU countries are quite disarmed as far as the military is concerned, because they are in the NATO Pact system, so they are not threatened by anyone at the borders, but they pose a danger to some far away, such as Afghanistan, where drugs are produced, Kosovo is a warehouse, their common command is in Naples and Naples is held by the mafia. I will not go into it for a living, for you know it. Woe is the land where the army passes by, where the boot of war treads. As far as police forces are concerned, organized crime is selectively prosecuted. Why? Organized crime and revenue generated by organised crime are the motor power of development of some economies in Western Europe. Europe until it puts it under its control, she sued all cigarette manufacturers to the Supreme Court of New York, because there is the headquarters of all major cigarette manufacturers and large companies and then they said five channels were passing through this territory. Until a few months ago, the finance chief, the one who maintained the stability of our currency, was Darko Saric. The state said that a billion and three hundred fifty million washed away, mob couples that entered legal flows, through privatisation, real estate, and so on. We expect to see soon, and who are the policy people who have provided protection. I quote what you said in power. I don't make anything up, you know. When you quote what you said, so it goes up, each one draws some conclusion that it can be oriented in time and space. Why did I say all this? I said all of this for one simple reason, which was possible in 2001 to change the methodology for calculating the gross social product, which was in the function of showing the epochal results of the new government, so it's possible for this game of numbers to cover up the essence. Someone convinces us that if 45% of the gross social product of the Republic of Serbia should be used for deleveraging, that it is not a great burden, I am telling you that it is a terrible burden. Probably for Germany, for the UK and others and 60% is not a big burden. Why? Well, for 500-600 years, they've been colonists, they've stolen the whole world, they've accumulated a great fortune. From criminals they became great humanists, from colonizers they became human rights fighters, but beyond all that material interests are hidden. I respect their needs, their motives, their reasons, their argument, but I will never accept that these motives, that argument, those reasons and that kind of brainwashing are being carried out over a Serb people who are incomparable. The Serbian state is incomparable to any Western European state. In translation, how do you compare "farry" and "fitch"? Only a lunatic can compare. Let's get our "fitch" and get her on the train. That's our job, and no-seeing the frog where the horses are wetting, so she raises her leg and expects her horseshoe. How hard that horseshoe is, as far as she can get a frog down into the mud, that's not what she's interested in. Their strategic goal is the EU, along the way, which will not and will take away everything that is worth in this nation and this country. So this restitution story is impossible, impossible. I know people who expect some of it are unhappy to hear this, but I'm just reminding them, for 15 years someone's promised them he was in power, so he didn't do it, why would they believe it's even possible? And right now, let me draw your attention to you, that kind of restitution that was in some Eastern European countries, and that possibility of restitution with us is two completely different things, incomparable. I support those who are only in favor of restitution in one thing, which they feel played out, because what they belong to, by some, to say, the natural laws, they took the mafia today, legally. How legal? Well, there's some kind of paper they're legitimizing with. The paper includes the number of members, the name of a law, and the article and the law point to a process that took place from January 25, 2001 until today and in the future. How long? As long as we have people like this in power, with these interests, desires and opportunities to carry this out. I know it's cruel to say this is true, but the truth can't escape. We can lie, we can believe a lie. It's nice to expect something good to happen to us, but tell me what this assumption and that feeling are based on. On the extinguished economy, on a large number of people without a job, on the uncertainty that brings about every day. What we need to build optimism on, and trust those we're absolutely sure of, we felt it on our skin, that for ten years we've been double-crossed, and some individuals have, in the meantime, strengthened so much, that they're stronger than the state. Excuse me, please, there are several oligarch systems in Serbia that, from the point of view of the media, are stronger than the state, as the public service that the European road is looking for. From the point of view of personal security, they're stronger. Why? Excuse me, please, this army of ours has left a guard to play an anthem when some foreigners and Cobras who guard the president cross the street so the pigeon doesn't mess it up. Tell me one artillery unit, tell me one engineering unit, tell me a unit? She's gone. How does that destroy the army thoroughly? As far as the police are concerned, you can see for yourself, a little bit, and some cop gets caught. What kind of check is that? Who's getting a job? Are those from the DIF? Get off the DIF, finish some course and immediately become some lieutenant, lieutenant, major, who won't even wear a uniform. We have a situation with the police now that people don't want to intervene, they don't want to wear uniforms. He wants to work with the police, get paid, but he doesn't want to wear a pendrick, a free woman, etc. You know, where are we going? What do we prove to be an organized state? What do we prove to be a prosperous state? What do we prove how a man should behave tomorrow and not be sanctioned? What is this system of values? That's the basic problem. That's why I've been avoiding going into this complicated game of yours for months and so on. It doesn't mean anything, it doesn't mean anything to the law. Absolutely nothing for regulation, for law, you know. I expect every regulation that should of course be as perfect as possible, to install a mechanism that guarantees that this law will be implemented in an objective, impartial way. That part doesn't exist. It doesn't exist, why? It is likely that there is a problem with the raw material that should apply those provisions. You see, something's going on a little bit. And to remind you that you would not be blessed in ignorance. In 2003, this parliamentary group called Maria Raseta Vukosavljevic. You found yourself in 2010 to press charges. She probably didn't accept something you said in the meantime. As for objective application of the rules, you can't believe it either. Seven years have passed. Let me not tell you about the other affairs we've been having here. And Kristo, and this, and that. Every day, some affair with some kind of audible nickname, and the nickname matches exactly what our authority is like. Kristo, power, Kristo.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44361	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44362	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, but above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, if the amendment's intention was that at the end of the month when journalists summed up how many times the MPs reported to the floor and how long he had discussed it, then he was the first to submit a good amendment because after such a long debate, he probably didn't know what he wanted to say with the amendment either. That is why I believe that this amendment is certainly one of these amendments that should be rejected and falls primarily within the scope of those amendments that serve to make the speaker the first at the end of the month when the time that anyone has spoken, rather than having the essential intention of affecting the law and correcting the law. I would not actually answer to comment on this amendment, if this amendment had not brought about the issue of restitution, which is one of the fundamental issues that stands as an obstacle on Serbia's path to the EU and indeed with the right of the SPO, our coalition partners and friends suggest that it is necessary to pass a law on restitution. With full right, I can tell you that this meeting of the Serbian Parliament will certainly discuss the law on restitution, and we believe that Serbia should be part of the EU, but without it, we feel that it is necessary to have an eternal injustice against people who have lost their property rectified because the right to non-vulnerability of private property is a fundamental right on which not only the EU rests, but every regulated state in the world, whether it is an EU member or not. On the other hand, if others had heard of restitution when they were in power, they could have returned Kosovo-Methohic monasteries to return the country, today the country in KIM would be owned by Kosovo monasterys, from Decan to Kosovo Mitrovica. I mean Mr. Krasic specifically, not someone else. It is not a problem that they do not want to join NATO, the problem is that when they were in power they called on NATO to come to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44363	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44364	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, a short replica, not anymore because of me, this was really short. It's a characteristic, it's not a problem, I know when the Resistance talks who talks from the belly. I called to protect you from the SPS. Here's why. Ten years ago, at this time, in the building of the National Assembly, the one below, intense talks were held about the transitional government by the triumvirate system. Let me remind you, that's when someone threatened you, ask Gorica Gajević, Zoran Angelkovic who threatened, what he said, etc. I don't want to go into those details right now, that's what the books have already published, to remind me just like that, for the record. You know, this is where you do your kind of replacement thesis. I feel there is one part of the DS that simply hides crying about why Boris Tadic accepted the coalition with SPS, pensioners. I really can't help it, you know. I don't have a shoulder to cry for that kind of disappointment. Why? It's not my duty. Everyone makes coalitions according to one of their choices, anyway, that's what voters will say. But for two years now, everything anyone wants to put into account and say spits out the SPS, hold back at the last minute. You've seen it yourself. Hold on, so he won't swallow it, but he's got it right next to him and he's looking to get the SRS into that story. Everyone knows the SRS has nothing to do with that story. But it's one focus operation, as it was focused on Milosevic that he was the source of complete evil on planet Earth, so they made motivation, etc. Here, after 10 years, nothing is your fault, Slobodan Milosevic. It's clear to all of us that there's nothing to blame. But yesterday we heard who was carrying the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44365	Time. Two minutes is a replica. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word, so let's finish the cycle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44366	It's not a replica, I'll use the time of the DS parliamentary group and I'll talk about the amendment. I can talk about the amendment many hours after the DS parliamentary group has 64 MPs, as far as I know, and I can use the time of the parliamentary group as the parliamentary group feels should be used. When I talk about amendments, I make it clear what I like about the amendment, what I don't like, and I was very specific when I said why this amendment, which was explained by Mr. Zoran Krasic, should be rejected. What do I think of the SRS? Everyone in this country knows I'm thinking about that party's politics all the worst. About you as people, you're principled, I welcome that, you haven't been to join the EU, you're not for any advanced ideas, but you can't deny the fact that you've been in power in this country. You did not rule Iraq, Afghanistan, Belarus, but, unfortunately, you were in power in Serbia. Today, we are proud of those with whom we are in power because we are making a modern European Serbia that you can never harm with your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44367	Mr. Krasic won't be able to get a word based on the replica. Nothing's said, you're not offended. You were understood by your colleague. There's really no reason. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44368	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I have to speak to you before I return to the amendment you said. You see, the SRS really did in the '90s have a coalition relationship with the SPS, only two years. I think you remember that. We have made a political point, on behalf of the SRS, Mr Krasic has expressed our view that we are against restitution. We were against restitution in the '90s, today we're against restitution. As long as we exist and function politically, we will be against it. A little later, I'll, in particular, be about the law we're talking about to explain why it's like that, or how much I can do it. You see, in 2000, we were very principled and politically correct in being proud of the government where we sat with you. Some of them spit on you at the time. Because of that government with you, we've been shown and spit, but we've never given up these coalition relations. Those who have ripped you out for 10 years satanicized and spit today are calling for pride, to the government with you. That's really untasteful. I don't argue with someone and that they love the SPS and they don't love you, but they can't exploit it politically cheaply. You know, if someone was a Balkan butcher eight or ten years ago, it has to be today. What we thought about October 5th, we thought about October 6th, and we think about it today. In the aftermath of October 5, we all feel fat on our skin and everything we have talked about on October 4th and 6th today confirms life – economic sunflower, social disenfranchisement, national humiliation, political discredition, DOS. Now, in two years' time, the U.S. government is asking, "Why didn't you do a restitution?" Why weren't you DOS authorities in 10 years, and even if you weren't in power all the time? You had seven years of opportunity to do so, but you did not have time from Janusevic, Kolesar, Novakovic, Pitic, Udovici etc. These were topics of interest to the DS, which at the time had been exploited for the last 10 years or seven years. Now the restitution puts on the burdens of the SRS, not because they truly believe it's our fault, but they can't spit on you because you helped them adopt all European laws. That party president of yours is right -- there is no Europe of them without you. But they can't spit on you, they've found the SRS. Now, I accept, here, it's all our fault, nothing is disputed. Not wanting to continue the controversy with Mr. Milivojevic, not with anyone from DS, but we, Mr. Milivojevic, are asking one objective question – how much will it cost to restitution, which you say we should have implemented, and you stand up for it? (President: I just wanted to ask you to speak to Parliament and to me and to return to the topic. I said I'd talk to you. (President: Yes, but you are now addressing the MP directly, which is not allowed. I apologize again to Mr. Milivojevic. I am now interested in, for representatives of the congregation's majority, any law or law that may sound modern is the basis and the way into the EU. Now, the Budgetary System Act, which incorporates one or two positions or members, referring to restitution, is a fundamental path into the EU, and the state has not passed the law on restitution. There are many preconditions, from normative to all others, which this country must resolve to be ready for restitution, this is your restitution that you want. Now I'm interested in how far did the state go with the application of the Planning and Construction Act? It's one of the preconditions to solve the legalization problem. "Blic" says, "The municipalities want to skin the citizens." Mr. Dulic calls two municipalities in which the DS is in power because they abuse the law, he wants to skin the citizens, because legalisation has been seen as a means of robbery, not as something that will, in administrative and in any other sense, regulate this country. That's what Oliver Dulic says, he's complaining about his own, about DS, not complaining about other municipalities. Out of 700,000 demands, only two thousand were processed. I ask those who advocate restitution – what is the time period that should pass to resolve only this segment of preconditions, so that Serbia can think in this direction? The second question is catastra, the third question is property. All these issues I'm talking about are directly related to the budget, because the structure of fiscal income depends on property, ownership, registration, legalisation, etc. After all, because of these abuses in the legalization process, I ask you, Madam Minister, how many municipalities are really going to design their budgets? They're counting on this robbery, it's gonna be money, and you have no idea how they spend it. You have no idea what they're spending money on being legalized. Now someone assures us that we need to build a restitution story into this law. So, both amendments went in the direction, the one we're talking about now, and the one that Krasic was talking about, that this category and the job of restitution were released from this law. We think it's not absolutely time to talk about it, especially to bring it into the context of our debts. As for the debt forecasted – 45%, it is not our consciousness and commitment to save, but our necessity. How is it possible that five before this we accept international practice, and now the international practice of 60% representing the Mastricht Agreement, we will not accept? Because we're economically destroyed, because we can't take that kind of debt. We can't even handle this debt that we have, of 37 or 38%. Now I ask you - what is the equivalent of a material value for that 37 or 38%? What did this country get on the line of all this debt? Did we get the roads, did we get some other infrastructure, did we raise administrative capacity, did we do something that we should be proud of because of that 37 or 38% government debt? We didn't do anything, but we ate and drank money, because we pulled money for public spending, those who run the state for the last 10 years – DS etc. Now, in this law, we're installing the restitution story. I ask if any of the representatives of the majority or you from the government, Mrs Dragutinovic, knows how much the state will need for the restitution process? Who can guarantee us, when the real estate market, the country's price one day in the country is established and defined, that the amount you predict for restitution will not exceed that 60%, or do you count that you will not withdraw any more dinars of credit to these 37 or 38%, and you have already announced the new 200 million to preserve the budget deficit? If there were projects, you'd be pulling $800 million from the Russians. The European Investment Bank announces that this year it will grant you a higher level of credit, etc. Now we ask you what's true, can anyone get out of this network? What is it, how are we, where are we going and how are we going to do with the economy that we have, with the tax policy that we have, that you want to change, but you don't have any support in the government, just part of the growth that you want to change, even though for 10 years you've assured us it's the only European and best model of this country? Now you're going to introduce us to a new model of growth, you know how the state should get out of trouble. Then the story of restitution, of the debt of the state, is being banked to the 1990s, power, this or that. And this home deserves more, and God damn it, the citizens. They didn't give you trust for this government, but on their behalf you manage the state, and as they live, they feel very good about their skin. You have no right to such adventures, but you've made up your mind. We believe that in the first subsequent elections, you will pay the price, but things must be called the names they deserve and placed in the place that belongs to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44369	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44370	Dear President, I use the time that New Serbia's parliamentary group has. Dear citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission and fellow MPs, I would first like to replicate Mr. Stevanovic from the SRS, if it were not very fair to replicate the MPs of the DS, given that there are two present. When there are more interested in amending and supplementing this law, their answers will likely be specific. Madam Minister, I welcome your arrival here and participation in this debate, but I hope you'll give up your style so far to listen to us, at the end of five or six minutes you'll give us a little lecture and leave. I'd like to have a little dialogue, so you can show us and prove us wrong, and with the confidence that we're talking this out of our best intentions. So, I want to inform you that there is a procedure under way, as far as the Administrative Committee is concerned in the National Assembly, where we form the budget. I think it might be the first time that the Official and National Assembly has their own budget. I don't want to discuss the provisions of that regulation right now. The Secretary-General needs the Administrative Board to submit a proposal. The situation has now been created, and the president should include himself and give the public a concrete answer. I hope she, even though she's talking to the secretary general, hears what I'm saying. You, as finance minister, the most important man, or woman in this country for money, as people say, should plead. We heard yesterday or yesterday that this National Assembly owes about three and a half million euros to the Public Service. We would like to, and I believe you, too, if not otherwise, by means of a budget inspection, to find out, as MPs, because every day we are buried in a sea of information and a bill of law, decisions, so it would not be worse to get a copy of that contract that the National Assembly has concluded with the Public Service and to see the invoice, because I have some information to check, so I ask that Mr Tijanic has doubled some items in that invoice, as regards the number of perpetrators working on direct transfers that citizens are informed of what is being done in the Assembly. Furthermore, Madam Minister, since you did not answer me in principle, I thanked you for the notice, that is, the decision you made, and as far as the Niš City budget is concerned, and I must repeat that I am sorry that the President of the City Assembly, Mr. Ilic, is not here for purposeless spending, and I warn you to send a budget inspection, that the state, or the ministry, or the city of Nis, would not have any expenses, because we will file a criminal complaint for the purposeless spending of the money. That's what you've come to realize with your own solution and delivered to the Nish City Assembly who won't implement that decision of ours. It is then that financial indiscipline and I understand why you have submitted this bill, to spend more transparently in front of the public budget, or people's money, and more justly. I'm not saying that this budget-expending control wasn't up until now, but I'd like you to give us an answer, and I'd like your public opinion, especially to our oldest citizens, who were expecting an already pompously announced aid of 5,000 dinars for all those pensioners who have below 30,000 dinars of pension. In view of the fact that today's print media has announced bread collection at 50 dinars, which is only for one bread, Madam Minister, 18,000 dinars a year, and it seems to me that two hundred thousand pensioners, unfortunately, have a pension under 12,000 dinars in this country, we will see, perhaps, those who mocked that aid of 5,000 dinars, that it is not a small help for these people. Who controlled the budget? Who should have told Minister Dinkic, who should have told Krkobic, who should have told the Prime Minister that there was no money in the budget? Could there be, as I still want to believe, after a possible rebalancing, not six months of political overplay, gaining political points, using political marketing for 5,000 dinars to help these pensioners? I don't know why they should be given any help at all. These people, as soon as they got their pensions settled, they must have the right to a fair and just pension. I want to remind you, and especially you, because I know what your opinion is about some pension adjustments until they were frozen, so you gave it up, because of coalition capacity, coalition blackmail, or whatever's going on in that government. So I won't use it all the time, I've got ten minutes left. I hope these questions, which are of course of interest to me, and I mean the general public, especially when it comes to this aid of 5,000 dinars for our oldest citizens, because, you'll admit, it was really ugly that six months of unmistakable public service logs were announced, all of them worked out, and almost all of them were ministers to hang on to some political point, and then everyone is silent here. Is it a terrible thing to say – there is no budget at the moment, there will be rebalancing, you know when, in thirty days and then you will be given that aid of 5,000 dinars? As much as some people may seem unserious, if 5,000 dinars were nothing, unfortunately, there are many of our fellow citizens, especially pensioners, to whom 5,000 dinars would be some help. Some of them are in charge, believe me. From the town where I come from, from Chačka, I know at least a dozen of them, in charge of these 5,000 dinars, given some stock, some hammers, something raised there. Now everybody's quiet, nobody's saying anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44371	Members of the 15th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Momo Colaković and Milisav Petronijevic. Mr. Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44372	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I will briefly explain the reasons why I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group. First because I felt it was necessary to protect pensions after 2012 in the scope and need as foreseen for 2011 and 2012. Then, to preserve pensions as an economic category. Third, in order to improve the position as much as possible, the material position of the poorest pensioners. The trade unions and a number of pension organizations have spoken and suggested that we come to the Assembly on this, and we, our parliamentary group, supported the views and translated them into the amendment that we submitted to the Assembly. We believe that a reason for not accepting the amendments, that a reduction in pension funds' participation in GDP from 13% to 10% can also be achieved by "cleaning" pension spending from funds allocated to the health care of pensioners. Then, that a lot can be done by cleaning up the pension fund’s spending in relation to social benefits and, in particular, when it comes to certain decisions establishing the rights of pensioners. That's where I think of the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS Group considers it necessary to open a debate on this law and dialogue within the framework of the Social-Economic Council. This means practically that we insist on the government's social dialogue, employers and trade unions. I don't know why this remained tied to both this law and other laws, which we're going to talk about in the next period. Social dialogue is necessary. It is a constitutional category and it is also an international, European need and obligation. I would especially like to support your position, Madam Minister, that a whole new, special fiscal responsibility law should be prepared, adopted and adopted, with all the consequences, obligations, responsibilities and provisions that provide for sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44373	National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44374	The President-in-Office, Minister, People's MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, held in principle a debate on the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, stated its position and supported the law in principle. Regardless of the fact that it is not a special law, it is evident that the essence of the supplementation of the Budgetary System Act is to determine financial responsibility and strengthen financial discipline. Of course, financial rules are also introduced as part of this, and in order to achieve financial responsibility. We made our point in the principle debate when we announced, supporting this bill, that we had serious objections to part of the fiscal rules. And that part, as it's called in the law, is a special fiscal rule. To remind you, the bill stipulates that specific fiscal rules regulate the way wages grow in the public sector and raise pensions, that I do not speak further about local self-government, etc. The bill also provides that public sector wages, individual and individual pensions, may be increased in 2011 and 2012 by consumer prices, plus half of the growth or decline of the social product in the previous year. We think it's the right thing to do. From 2013 to 2015, the mass of funds, therefore, the second term now for public sector wages, can grow for consumer prices plus half of GDP in the previous year, and pensions for consumer prices plus what is above 4% of GDP, if it reaches 4%. We believe that the same approach should be provided. So, by our amendment, we have proposed that both public sector and pension salaries share the same fate, or grow or fall on the same criteria, in the same way. So both the public sector and pensions to be increased for consumer prices growth, plus one half of GDP in the previous year. That's the essence of our amendment. I want to explain it the next way. By submitting this amendment, I would like to point out that we respect that the financial rules want to ensure that the fiscal deficit is reduced in terms of GDP is achieved mostly by reducing current public expenditures and by regulating the level of wage harmonisation in the public sector and pensions. We respect that attitude and support that attitude. We also appreciate that these fiscal rules also want to change the structure of public spending towards reducing current expenditure and increasing public investment. We think it's right. That's not what we're questioning. We also respect the international obligations our country has made by making a stand-by arrangement with the IMF on the introduction of fiscal rules, i.e. the rules on the amount of fiscal deficit and public debt. We respect the government's visible efforts to bring the country out of crisis, an economic crisis that is part of the global economic crisis as soon as possible and with the least possible damage. We respect all these questions and believe that what we have proposed is also at the end of it. In response to this amendment, the government said, and I will remain on three findings, "The annual unfavourable trend in the number of employees and pensioners has accelerated, high unemployment rates result in insufficient amounts of funds to pay pensions and, consequently, a significant amount of the transfer funds of the republican budget that are directed towards the Republic of PIO Fund." I'm saying right. Yes, it is, but that's not all. I don't want to believe it, because I know it's not, that the government ignores the fact that it's also affected by an enormous number of unpaid contributions. Very big. I don't believe that the government has no way of affecting that, too, of course there's still a gray economy present. I don't believe the government has any idea that this is being affected by unresolved issues of the PIO Fund's assets. So it is what was given, but it's not all. There is room for pensioners to monitor growth in the same way as public sector wage growth, which is the essence of the amendment. Secondly, the government says, "In addition, the stand-by arrangement that the Republic of Serbia has concluded with the IMF defines the obligation to cut pension spending in the coming years." We agree. The harmonisation of pensions with consumer prices with half GDP growth, therefore, such as the public sector, leaves enough space for pension spending to gradually decrease from the current 13% of GDP participation and draw closer to the obligation given to the IMF. In addition, the position of the 24th member of the law leaves the possibility that these fiscal rules apply after 2015, as it stands, until 10% of pensions in GDP are reached. So we respect that attitude, too. Finally, the government says, "The established way of indexing pensions and salaries, which is given in terms of fiscal rules, allows sustainable financing in the long term." When I spoke in the principle debate, I said, exactly, it's financially sustainable. I want to draw attention, I don't want to be rude, because my government, and I don't have the pardon to ask her that question, to end the increase in total pensions is even more sustainable, it's even more financially sustainable. Of course, I've only made this one step, but what I want to warn the government, my government, is financially sustainable, but it's a commitment and I believe that the government is not running away from that obligation. This has to be socially sustainable. If it's financially sustainable, it's only one party, and it's not socially sustainable, it's not possible to apply on a longer period. I don't believe the government has any intention. On the contrary, I believe that there is no way that, for a longer period of time, the pension insurance system will become a social security system. Then it doesn't fit a single state system in general, because it's a completely special insurance system and it has to be respected to the end. So, once again, I call, without questioning any of these significant goals that are to be achieved by this law, to consider this possibility, ultimately, it is in line with the fiscal principles of justice, justice and for the present and future generations. It must not harm either one of us, to take another look at this and accept the amendment that pension growth monitors public sector wages growth, whatever it is, that I am not now in the debate whether GDP is even possible to use as a criterion for this, I am not going into it. It's like a public sector salary growth, so as he finds himself in that section, so be it on pensions. In the end, the high level of dissatisfaction of the union is high, and I understand the need and commitment of the state to run a financial sustainable policy. Please, and I'm asking you, the government needs to enter a dialogue with the unions, it needs to be clear with them, to convince them that this is the best solution. They are also aware and we are all aware of the necessity of economic reforms, and when economic reforms are necessary, then they must be accompanied by social reforms. Neither of them can succeed unless they're socially just. So once again, I call on the government to do everything possible to get into social dialogue with the unions, to force or find a way for employers who run away from it as a devil from the cross to enter social dialogue and to find the best solutions for this future through social dialogue. We're deliberately talking about the future, you noticed, the SPS is not responding to any past-related mutilations, because we think Serbia is tired of the past, tired of mentioning the past, of returning to the past. Serbia has current problems that we want to solve together with our coalition partners and all those who want to, and that is our policy, and that is what we are turning to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44375	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44376	Excuse me, how much time do we have as a parliamentary group? (President: 18 and a half minutes. I thank you. The explanation of the rejection of this amendment shows why it is not necessary to vote for this law and why we will not vote for this law. Because it is said that the Republic of Serbia has made an arrangement and agreement with the IMF, etc. and solemn obligations to the IMF. In the debate in principle, we pointed out the fact that the law began to be produced about a month after the signing of the letter of intent, where the government of Serbia and the NBS promised the IMF and its president that they would reduce pension expenditure, local self-government, reduce employment and in any case destroy the social position of both pensioners and employees. As already said, it is a reduction from 13% to 10% of gross domestic product. I will only give you three examples that show that this is a profoundly wrong policy, that this is a policy that is against the interests of our citizens, against the interests of our economy and against the interests of our country. You certainly know, and this is not disputed, that the American economy was the strongest and is still the strongest after World War II, but it did not bother them to increase pension expenditure, starting in 1937 and only one piece of information suggests that social justice and social care for pensioners goes in parallel with strengthening the economy. These are not two different directions, therefore this explanation of the amendment is completely pointless. In 1953, at 2006 prices, $100 billion was given for pension insurance in America. In 2003. $530 billion, it didn't bother the Americans at all to have such GDP and GDP growth and other economic indicators. Another even fresher example is the example of the Russian Federation. The IMF and the board of directors of the IMF very much objected to the Russian government's increase in pension expenditures for 10% of gross domestic products. So, as we reduce pensions in the Russian Federation, they increase even by 10% of gross domestic product and, unlike our minimum growth of gross domestic product planned for next year if it is, it has already reached 6.3% minimum in Russia. There is another example that is very instructive and that shows that the arrangement with the IMF is wrong in every sense. This is an example of the development of Italian southern authorities. They invested, as envisioned by this law, in public works, in public investment and mostly in building roads. The most famous route is that of Del Sole, from Milan to Naples, which is about 750km long, however, it itself has not improved the economy and population in southern Italy, even because imports from northern Italy to the south have increased. That will certainly happen with EU imports to Serbia. It was only when the Italian economic authorities realized that pensions, spending, employment in the state services needed to be increased, that it was here because if they were to say or if the dogma were to be brought down that should not be supported by a strong state, then only GDP in southern Italy began to grow. So you have three examples, one from the United States, one from the Russian Federation, one from Italy that shows that pension growth is not the opposite of growth in the economy, the growth in the social standard of citizens and the improvement of the state. Therefore, these phrases from the letter of intent that are obviously without any critical approach adopted in the light of this law or in the law itself show that the IMF is very harmful to our economy, to our state and again I appeal to you, not hoping to do so, to act as finance minister of your colleague from Hungary, who in July 2010, interrupted the negotiations with the IMF and focused on the sharpness of these taxes and the requirement for higher incomes to foreign banks, to foreign insurance companies. I know it takes political and economic courage, but the SRS believes that both the IMF and the EU, which monitors the IMF at this breakdown of our economy, have an alternative. It's enough to show a little economic patriotism and a little political courage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44377	National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44378	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, this article defines an extremely important area in several rows. At this point, a million and 600,000 pensioners live in Serbia. There's different data, but it's about a million and 650 thousand. In recent years, the number of pensioners has increased compared to the number of employees. As the number of employees decreases, the number of pensioners increases. When the state is hit by a crisis and all the funds are also hit by a crisis. However, the pension system crisis has been going on for a long time and there have been different ways to resolve it. What is actually translated in plain language in this article of the law. It says that pensions for the next few years will be brought into line with half of GDP growth and growth in prices to a small extent and that since 2013, they will be in line with prices growth to a small and GDP growth of more than 4%. If it's up to 4% then it's just inflation. What does that really mean? This means that the idea that the mass of pensions is reduced by time relative to the mass of wages or GDP. At this point I have other data, in 2010 it will be 14% of GDP. Some predecessors said it would be about 13, but the whole idea, it's agreed with the IMF, we talked about it more than a year and a half ago, I guess a lot of people remember, then there was doubt that it would be so, now it's explicitly said that the mass of pensions could be a maximum of 10% of GDP. For the next few years, it is certain that we cannot expect a high GDP growth. Next year, it'll be 2 to 3%. Over the next few years, all those weaknesses we talked about will come out. Therefore, the idea is to reduce pensions' participation in GDP, in other words to reduce pensions or pensions' share. Is this a good model? We're just talking about indexation. The indexation is not the only problem the pension system has in Serbia. Of course, in negotiations with the IMF, when it was important to negotiate key elements, the IMF is interested primarily in reducing costs and maintaining the system of public finances. Of course, they were interested in solving the indexation issue first, but far from being the only problem the pension system has. About such an important thing, about the lives of millions and 700,000 people at this point, we all expect to be pensioners one day, it at least requires a special session of the Assembly to discuss all the important things about reforming that system. Several rows in the fiscal responsibility law, in the law on the budgetary system within one member, I find it offensive for all of us to solve the long-term fate of several million people. I think it's, to say the least, an insult to this country and to all the people who work today and who are retired today. The other thing is – pensions are defined in terms of price growth and gross social product. It opens up so much space that whoever runs the Department of Statistics and who sits in the government can, for the sake of political interest, play with those two parameters. How? We agreed that the gross social product is regulated according to 2002 prices and the structure of the 2002 economy. Serbia today looks completely different. Serbia's economy looks completely different in those 10 years. This information is not at all convincing and the question is how real it is, but it is certain that it is one relatively arbitrary data. Secondly, inflation will be 8% this year. In the paper or when you go to the store, no pick-up is more than 20%. How can we count on how much inflation is, how can we officially represent price increases, that's a story to ourselves. But when they put your account on the register at the supermarket, it's much bigger every day than it is 8%. When they talk about energy growth, the gas will collect 25%. The price of electricity must collect 20 percent. The heat in Belgrade will collect the heating price by 20 per cent the day after tomorrow. No one's talking about that 8% increase in prices to a little bit. The World Bank has done a study on system reform. They have just warned that this indexation leads to a long-term drastic pension reduction. If this indexation system is maintained, long-term pension growth or pensions will be around 15% of Serbia's average salary. If I count well, it's about 5,000 dinars. It's run by this kind of indexation system, and it's kind of a future that's written in this article of this law. Indexing isn't the only problem the pension system has. The pension system requires a serious debate and the least I can say at this point is that I am glad that parties from the government and some parties from the opposition agree that what is proposed in the law must change. What concerns me is that if I remember correctly, during today's debate, all the opposition parties and all the representatives of the parties of the authorities who spoke about this law supported the finance minister that a special law on fiscal responsibility should be made. Apparently, the finance minister has the largest support in the Assembly and the smallest support in the government. If something needs to worry us all, then we should be worried about that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44379	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44380	And this member, and these amendments, and these discussions just show what I said a few hours ago, that we have the wrong name of the law. This should, however, be a fiscal system or fiscal policy law, because if we were to say -- the budget system law, please excuse me, what does pension coordination have to do with the budget system? There's nothing. I am not going to use this argument, especially the one that Dejan Mirovic detailed, but just to draw the public's attention to the next. In Europe, it is being striked these days because a government said there will be no pay growth in the public sector, in a country where annual inflation is below 1%. Compare these two data. Some demonstrate and strike because employers told them the bonus will decrease, and inflation is about 1% in these countries. Inflation 1%, they know the category of personal income growth, they enter that category, the state to calm it down a little, to promote savings, and the people rebelled. Why am I saying this? To make this situation clearer. I think what the amendment requires to change shouldn't exist in this law. Why? The average pension is just an accounting category and nothing else. The right to retire is personal right. The harmonisation of pensions, no matter what criteria to be used, must be regulated by a material regulation, a regulation governing pension-inhabited insurance. Who has authorized someone to interfere in an indirect manner, as rude as this member is doing, and it is said: from 2013 to 2015 and enter some categories, such as average pension, consumer price growth, growth rate above 4% of gross social product, and we are now 1.5%, as they say, so next year be 1.7, then there, 2013 and will not reach 4. Then what? We've spent our strength in the wrong regulation, to regulate something that belongs to a man. I showed you this morning in a good way how you can take care of this. Don't touch the money mass, don't touch the pensions, cut the course. Make the euro 70 dinars and we'll all be satisfied. If they could afford 1,000-euro free shares to cost 1,700 dinars, the hours of work, Mrs Dragutinovic, if you are unable to do so, call Mladjan Dinkic, and he will deal with it in no time. What would happen? They'd have dropped all the prices. Because they said prices depend on the course of the euro. The National Bank of Serbia would have fulfilled its basic function -- to guarantee price stability. Is that right? Why don't you do it? Last year you took three billion dollars from the IMF. No contract here has been ratified and you say it's in state reserves to defend the course. The funds are located in America, Great Britain and Germany, in their first-class banks, the biggest guarantee. The accounting money allegedly exists in this system, serves as a guarantee that foreign investors and those who launder money in Serbia will not fail. What are we interested in? What about our pensioners? What about our kids? Why are you inserting these provisions into this law? These provisions don't belong in this law. The state cannot avoid its obligation to transfer funds from budget to compulsory insurance funds. Why? The state has prescribed a pension-inhabitation obligation, prescribed conditions, these conditions were respected both by employees and employers. If they didn't want to, there was a state with its repression. Now you're promoting the principle -- how much money, how much music. As much as the payments are made, so much will go for the pensions, and now let's show great solidarity and we'll go from the budget. No, I don't. The state is guaranteed. She's got to be behind it. No matter how much it costs, it's gonna cost. The state has to provide that. Mr. Dejan Mirovic explained the situation in the United States, the situation in Russia and set a very good example regarding Italy. We're experiencing this example. You're in charge of asphalt and some things to rock goods from Western Europe as quickly as possible, and you didn't get any credit for opening a job. I would say -- anything that comes from abroad or otherwise, in the form of foreign exchanges, to open up some kind of drive, as you say -- green investment with employment, if that's an investment. But obviously there are problems there, so Mladjan Dinkic has to guarantee every stranger who comes to us an adequate number of thousands of marks for every place he opens. Please, where's that on the globe? It doesn't exist anywhere. You stimulate a stranger and fill his pockets with money, and tomorrow he can pick up and burn, as he was in Vranj, "Junko" and not order any further. There's some Jumko in every place. You name all sorts of foreign names, a normal man can't remember all that. You have the wrong direction, the wrong way. You're doing everything wrong. You're doing everything on purpose. You have an awareness of that. Argentina, when the death hug of the IMF fell off, in a year and a half, she stepped on her feet. Brazil, too. Come on, you know better now what it's like abroad, and you don't know what it's like in Serbia. You know that better than anyone. Here, for ten years, no one bothered you. And if he wanted to bother you, you'd shoot him. You do everything, you finish everything. Anything you're told can't. We said China, what he said – little drugs for small people, is not good. Russia, it says, broke Russia. Now the fourth pillar, Russia. You know, I don't trust you with anything from DOS. I know what your mission is here. Please, the question of harmonising pensions at some point, in debt, in short, is not the matter of this law. You have no right to interfere. Why? Because it's a personal, status law that belongs to an individual and so on. The state; the state has an obligation to finance from the budget everything that is missing from the mandatory insurance funds. But when the erosion of our system started here, it started in 2003 with Gordan Matkovic and the first reform. And what's going on? It happens that, in reality, not just pensioners, but all social categories live in a difficult situation. Now someone can say, you find a formula. You didn't get the right ten years, not just to find the formula, but to realize what you imagined and you really did it, and these are the consequences. So you take off your course in no time, you don't touch anything else, but it's hard for you to do that job because you only defend the course by foreign reserve. You don't have stock funds, you don't have control over stock funds, you don't have customs protection. You don't have a normal economic policy for this space. You don't. You don't have a safe market. No one's going with you. You heard what the Russians said. Well, you Serbs expect the Russians to be bigger Serbs than Serbs. Make a deal on a simple resolution. Sixty-one countries support you in this, and then at fifteen minutes before the General Assembly session, accept everything the EU has asked of you. What did you do? Sixty-sixty-something states that are willing to be our partners, you slapped them and don't talk to them anymore. They can't trust you. No one will believe you. Absolutely no one will believe it. Today Holland is the main topic. Whether we're going towards the EU depends on Brammertz and some Phil. What depends? Wrong way. Don't go there, turn to the original interests of this people. You've probably read something that's demographic research, what this country's perspective is, citizens who live for the next twenty, thirty years. If you read that document, then you'll be clear, but you're not reading it. You're working on the system-- the government has three feeders, they're split until those interests are patched up, while one of you gets to the other side as soon as possible. For me, the great insult yesterday was to have Kacin there and the EU, they celebrate the burning of the Assembly. Kacin has not yet responded to what would happen to those soldiers in 1991, when he was a spokesman for the terrorist groups that attacked JNA. You don't mind, you smile. You're waiting at the airport. He says: I spoke to him as a soldier, as Tadic said. You took down criminal charges and charges against Solana, so he could pass through here and be the person of the grat, and he ordered bombings and murders. It's your policy. You have to follow that. You don't see a citizen, you don't see this people, you don't see our economy, you don't see our interests. I'm not surprised at all, I know the applicants of the amendments and Mom and Petronijevic put up with it from the best of manners. Remember one rule, when one of the MPs of the parties in power submits an amendment and the Government does not adopt that amendment, something is wrong. People can't take the pressure of their immediate environment. You can't take the pressure either, because you live in Serbia, you know the situation. There's someone above the government that's pressing, who's in command - 126, 126. These provisions do not belong in the Budgetary System Act. You think this member should regulate something that used to be. A resolution on social and economic development for five years or a year, where some projections are given, etc. That's why I told you I wasn't going to enter your field term, that you were giving some class on appointments. Give lectures on everyday life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44381	MP Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44382	We are now discussing Article 15, and since almost an hour here is debated about this article, or the amendment, which, among other things, has been submitted by colleagues from the PUPS and the SPS, I am saying how important this member is and what the consequences of keeping this member in the current state, or possibly by adopting the amendments that you have proposed, are important by the standard of a very sensitive group, i.e. the most sensitive group, which is a group of 1,700,000 citizens, i.e. pensioners. It is quite clear that, if this proposal remains and this member remains in this bill in this budget system, that this will result, year by year, in a radical reduction of pensions in the total budget, or pensions themselves in nominal amount, which will have a profound impact on the standard of our pensioners. You've rightly raised your voice. You have rightly filed this amendment here. As I understand it, that's what I want to discuss here with Madam Minister, and give me a decadely reply after my report, are you ready to withdraw this law? From what we've heard from colleagues from PUPS and SPS, they insist on this amendment. That amendment is not technical, it is essential. He breaks into the future of the pensioner standard, will the pensioners keep such a bad status, or as the bill is done here, will we have pensioners with five and six thousand dinars in a year and two days, with all the price hikes? It seems to me to me that these two parliamentary groups, based on what's been said here and based on the determination I made when you defended that amendment, that if you don't adopt that amendment, you won't vote for this law. Seems to me I had this big problem here. Once again I ask you this question – are you ready to withdraw this law, or will you insist on a solution that, in fact, year by year, and on the basis of the IMF arrangement, will reduce pensions to pensioners by a uniform amount, and all this is the result, namely, of contracts, or a stand-by arrangement that you have concluded and based on which we have withdrawn funds. This translates into three billion in debt this year, so that pensioners receive significantly less pensions over the next three years and have a significantly lower standard. I do, however, interpret that fellow SPS and PUPS are almost covering, say, that target group, and that at least they cared about their standard. They, if you don't adopt this amendment, won't even stand behind a bill like this. It seems to me that you have a problem, or that this government has a problem, or maybe I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44383	On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44384	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have tabled an amendment to Article 16 of the Bill's proposal, so we have suggested that, in point 1), point (5) behind the words "thinking" add the words "and written consent". This amendment is related to the amendment that we have tabled to Article 2 and Article 15, because we believe that the fiscal council should play a more significant role, a much more significant role than the role given to it by this proposed text of the law. That is why we have proposed that, in addition to the opinions it gives on the report on the fiscal strategy, which is being prepared by the finance minister, it should also give written consent to the report. Of course, if the role of the fiscal council remains unsettled, if it remains advisory, it endangers the principle of fiscal responsibility and fiscal discipline itself, so we have submitted this amendment in this regard. I can't look back on a part of the government's reasoning that does not accept this amendment, where, among other things, it was said, that in most countries that have fiscal rules, educated Sufiscal Councils or some other expert body that does not depend on the government. One reason for forming an independent fiscal council is to ensure political impartiality. This is very well written, only if it was still implemented in practice. I am not sure that there is anyone in this room, or I am not sure that there is anyone in Serbia who can believe that this fiscal council will be impartial, or that it will be deprived of political influences, given how it is proposed to choose this fiscal council. Because, as we know, a member suggests a finance minister, who will be controlled by this member of the council, his work, and give an opinion and an analysis of what the finance minister was doing. The second member is proposed by the president of the Republic of Serbia, also, will be directly under the political influence of both the finance minister and the president of the Republic, so in principle you are this law, but also many others, you are bringing pro-forma, so there is no essence there. That's the fruit of the deal, your promise to the IMF. We've passed the law, we've formed some kind of fiscal council, it's going to be a body that won't be independent, it's going to be influenced by politics, but, well, we've implemented the form, we've passed the law, and that's how we've respected some of our commitments. We have for this reason and submitted a lot of amendments, so that we would try to correct this proposed text of the law and invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44385	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44386	Will you just tell me how many minutes I still have as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44387	You've got 14 minutes as a group and three as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44388	Then those three, if necessary. During the debate in principle, a few days ago and today, we concluded several important things. The first thing is that this law had to be particularly divided into two laws, meaning – the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. Another important thing, we have concluded that if there are no binding norms, this law will hardly be respected. The third important thing, obviously, is that there are a number of other laws in this law and that it fully devises the adoption of some other laws, if these rules are established here. This law, as one key body that needs to coordinate and control the whole thing and has an advisory opinion on the implementation of fiscal policy, is fiscal advice. We'll talk about how he's forming. But that body, in fact, needs to give an opinion on the budget, in case the finance ministry needs to be supported by that independent body. What's the problem now? The law explained that this body would have, I think, 17 or 19 employees. It is part of the Ministry of Finance that deals with budget preparation, the preparation of final accounts and the implementation of all these control procedures. It seems to me that, according to the job systematization, the finance ministry in the sector has fewer than 17 employees. Right? Now we have a body that is advisory, that needs to control what this body is doing in this main body that all these documents and this important policy should be created. He needs to take care of all these things. It should prepare all these elements and make sure that every penny is spent properly, there are fewer employees than in this body that will be just an advisory body and which will be controlled. Is there anything more to be said than that fact? I even think that in your budget sector all the systematicized places aren't even filled, that there are some empty spaces. What it's going to look like and what it's going to look like, we can only imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44389	Parliamentarians Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. Mr. Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44390	We have submitted an amendment to Article 17, or we have proposed that Article 17 be deleted. In fact, the government has proposed that Article 17 be deleted in the applicable law of Article 33 relating to the medium-term public investment priorities. We are in favour, and therefore we have submitted this amendment to maintain the regulation, that is, that definition from the existing law, to maintain the obligation of budget users to plan public investment for the reasons that the practice so far has shown that untimely planning of investments, preparation of investment documents, and thus not providing financial resources, leads to some key ibiquitous infrastructure projects being implemented for several years longer than originally planned. I think it is necessary to maintain the commitment of budgetary users to make these medium-term investment plans, so that the government can establish that medium-term programme and I think it was a good solution in the existing law. That's why we proposed that amendment. The government explained, in principle, that it agrees, however, that it is too high, since it has been regulated by some other provisions. We believe that it is not excessive and we think that this member should remain in the law, as it has been so far. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment. I'd just like to say a few more words, given that we've proposed a few more amendments to which we are more precise and detailedly editing this matter, since I wasn't there when he was a member of the 11th Law. We have also precisely defined the commitments of budgetary users that, in the event of a budget surplus, these funds must be left in the account and used in the next fiscal year. I don't understand why that amendment wasn't accepted. In Article 15, too, we have proposed some more concrete, more precise solutions when it comes to that mid-term. We have suggested that this be 2015, that by 2015 the budget deficit should be reduced to 1% and that instead of the formula that you have proposed, the rule of 0.75% should be applied, by reducing the budget deficit by 0.75% each year compared to the deficit of the previous year, which would certainly have a 1% deficit in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44391	Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word wants Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has rejected the amendment submitted by the MPs of the SNS, with a rather strange explanation, which is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is Article 69. The budget system law stipulates that the funds of the current budget reserve are used for unplanned purposes for which no apropriation has been established or for purposes for which it has been shown in the course of the year that the apropriations have not been sufficient. I don't see what the problem with our amendment is because it doesn't affect the consistency between Articles 69 and 61. The law. However, the question arises – if this remains this way, or this amendment is not accepted, why the budget? It's the most important law after the Constitution. It is that every year we change it and it is that several times during the year it is changed itself, but it is certainly a law that determines the fate of many flows in the country. It seems to me that the finance minister is performing a certain personification of the authorities, or public functions he performs. I'm going to start by assuming that you're a great minister and you're doing everything you're doing to facilitate budget and state functioning. Madam Minister, ask a question – what if you come into conflict with the Prime Minister or with the president of the DS for something? A debate could happen, or you will resign yourself, and Bozidar Djelic will be re-established as finance minister or, God forbid, Mladjan Dinkic. Then we would have a problem with Article 61 and Article 69. In this state, we'd be looking forward to it. Ask a second question – this is not just about the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this is also about the budget of local self-government, and some local self-governments do not have very small budgets and it is not that large amount of current budget reserves. You allow such an amendment to the law that you have filed, certain abuses and local self-government, and if there is a change in the minister, your future colleague, or successor. That's the problem. You say the amounts can't be great. Believe me, it has happened many times that in practice there is no problem in creating a certain situation and that the amount is not negligible at all and that it is also big. This argument that the budget reserve is used for unplanned expenditure is quite acceptable and it is not a problem that the budget reserve is used even for the purchase of vaccines and is not a problem even if it is not stated by law. That this assembly is meeting, I do not believe that any of these 250 people will question amendments and additions to the Budget Law if life, health or property of citizens are at risk. It's not politics anymore, and I believe all of these 250 people have that responsibility. That's why I don't see you explaining that we need to intervene quickly. That might be the way it is today. Last year probably, in 2008, probably, but will it be 2011, 2012 and every year next year, or will each government and every minister comply with the law according to their needs and their wishes? Will, for example, budgetor of local self-government from the current reserve, don't let God buy a new car? Yes, he was in need, and there's no item in the local self-government budget. You're empowering him for something like that. Madam Minister, I can tell you that if the government is good and it is successful, and even if it fails to make a good budget law, it should be a pleasure for it to go before the MPs who elected it, to make a proposal to amend and supplement the budget law and to explain the causes of such changes. But in governments that have failed, governments that are not good, they resort to this kind of indirect amending the budget law. Remember only when we submitted as MPs for the 2009 budget rebalancing, for the division of the Serbian Parliament, where we determine that there are hundreds of millions of dinars of surplus funds and you refuse to say no to this amendment – we can take these funds without the Budget Law and spend the way we need it, under the Budget System Act. That's the problem. Then what's the budget for? We can make it and write it any way we want, we can predict items we'll never do and transfer it at our own free will, both in our division and in our current budget reserves. That's why the problem is why we have this kind of budget system law in the first place. As I was saying, it seems to me that only failed governments resort to this. The successful ones are not afraid or afraid to stand before their MPs and explain the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44393	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 23a be added after article 23a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44394	Article 24 of the proposal, in fact, speaks of a member of 65 who treats the budget fund. In order to bring the citizens closer to matter and the need to react, I must say that this budget fund is, in fact, a special account within the main book of the vault, where all changes are recorded at the level of the Republic or at the level of the local budget. The intention is to keep income and expenditure separate, so that effects can be monitored according to specific, e.g. an international agreement or some local regulation establishing a certain construction obligation or anything. What does the government do with changes? The regulation defined that the budget fund should be managed individually and its purpose, the time for which it is established, the competent ministry managed by the fund, means the funds to be found in this fund and how it will be spent. What does the government change now? The earlier point 4), where the sources of funding were, is not touching, but that is why point 3, where it said that the budget fund is available to the revenues arising from the management of the liquid assets of the budget fund, the so-called "other incomes", where it says it will record the revenues from the availability of those funds, liquidated, means money, changes by saying that point 3 will now be called "other revenues", that the budget fund is financed from other revenues. So, that's how the fogging of the way the funds were collected and spent, not only in what the general budget was, to call it that, but even with the budget fund, it's earlier, horny, but still relatively clear explanation, it seems too clear to someone, so it needs to be completely abolished and listed by other revenues, and we're talking about some clarity of the budget all the time, the need to control it and to call it all a fiscal responsibility together. We asked for this point to be deleted, to remain as old as possible, to be financed from the incomes of liquid assets management and to add this point: "and other incomes", because as far as I can see from this fiscal responsibility proposed by this law, what in theory is called double accounting, as a positive term to lead the sources of income and spending, we here make up a law that will enable double accounting, not double, but double, one that will be shown to us, citizens, and the other that the government will lead within itself. I don't think that's a good practice and that's why it is necessary to accept the amendment of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44395	On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Mr. Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44396	I will now explain the amendment to Articles 25 and 26, given that these are related amendments, so I will not report when the amendment is made to Article 26. In fact, we have proposed with these two amendments to reduce the percentage of the current budget reserve to 0.5%, without reducing the percentage of the fixed budget reserve, because the funds from the permanent budget reserve are used to eliminate some of the immediate circumstances, natural disasters, fires, earthquakes, floods, slides and some other emergency circumstances that could endanger people's life and health or cause some major damage, damage to larger scales. They're predetermined. If there is a reduction in this percentage of the fixed budget reserve, we can get into the situation that the Republic of Serbia, or units of local self-government, cannot in one financial year resolve these damages, while the funds of the current budget reserves are not pre-defined and planned and therefore we propose to reduce them, because these funds can be used in a non-purpose way or can be used to meet some of the party interests in the pre-election campaign, in obtaining some political points. I urge you to accept these two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44397	Representatives Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 26th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44398	I would like to draw attention to both the Minister and our public, the citizens and all colleagues to the importance of amendments to Article 30. In fact, Article 30 defines the content of the final account and concerns the basic Article 79 of the Law, where all the final accounts are listed, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards, defines, what everything should contain and go into one necessary newspaper, although indeed after ten years of unifying the vault accounts and all those accounts on which public revenues have been pooled, to cover the property at the disposal of the state of Serbia. I would like to welcome this member of the law in a proposal that I am supplementing everything that needs to contain the final bill to be formulated so that it contributes to the real recording of what is state property, but not what is the state property that we find at the time of the law's adoption, as Mrs. Minister says that state property users will provide her with a report on what they have. The report on what they have today does not mean that it is also a list of the total state property, but rather, that, in the meantime, since 2001, when the Privatisation Act came into force, a new one, which allowed a company to display property, which allowed state property to appear and sell as a social property, where a property that was not owned by a social or land by an object used as if it were not a state property and was a state property. We can't let a member of the law pass like this. This means that the state prejudges property that has not disappeared but has disappeared from the business books of the state, and I have cited this in principle debate, even though Belgrade's Rob house was sold as property of Belgrade's state property, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia must have regardless of whether the property is registered, regardless of whether there is a property list, but it was registered because the Property Act, on assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, was brought in 1994. Countlessly lost squares, business spaces per city, ask only the public defenders how deliberately they lost their disputes or did not react where the commercial companies sold state property. You have no right as a government, you have no right as a finance minister, you have no right as a Government to behave in that Croatian at the time of the election, then I wondered what the word means, and they said – who is the jam, he pitted. What does that mean? Whoever took it, took it, and we'll never question it again. It can't be like that. They don't go out of the way of crimes, and this is a crime called an economic crime against the state, staring at the property that someone illegally kidnapped. I'm not interested in newspaper affairs, who was changing and who allowed whom, who was the director of the Property Directorate when a house on Belgrade's periphery traded for exclusive business space, but we also heard about it. So, there are cases where the state property has disappeared from the business books, and that's why I'm asking you by amendment, not on the basis of a report that's being delivered to you by someone who's currently found, so his balance sheet says he has something of state property, but that you're looking for accountingly valid documentation that someone's guaranteeing really, under the responsibility of every kind, that in balances from 2000 to 2010. And it cannot be lost without a search, and perhaps it can, because many foreign exchanges have been lost, many foreign exchange accounts, because it has forgotten where the very valuable collections of pictures from four large banks whose bankruptcy is or is not finished, and who knows that? Today, when a development fund is being prepared as a basis for the creation of a new development bank and one of you, Mrs. Diana, is going to ask you to provide ten million euros in censorship, I ask why you don't form a bank for development from these four large banks, and according to 1997, eleven billion dinars of funds were charged? Please translate it into Euros in 2007. I don't want to talk about fresher data because I don't have any, but I do have an answer to the parliamentary question of the late Borka Vukic, a colleague from the bank, who was then answered by the Government and then by the Minister of Finance, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, the current Prime Minister, where significant funds are collected from accounts that we don't know where they are today. Please, if it happened that one ministry was selling a significant collection of these banks in bankruptcy, and the Ministry of Culture, which was only a few meters away in the same building, reacted and prayed that these paintings and such valuable collections would not be sold, do not let that shame happen again, because that shame cost us. At this point when we talk about paying and pensions, salaries in the public sector and pensions can be indexed in one way or another, and you as a government will not make savings where possible, to control the assets that you have, to see where foreign reserves and at what price are placed and to prevent the waste of money conditioned by political quasi banking within the government. I'm not talking about wanting to touch any part of the electoral body. For me, for example, it prevents young people who need to get a job so they can work and make money for the pensions of those who really need to have a decent pension. I'm more interested in employment than in social services. It's not a good country that's trying to secure social benefits by taking taxes or taking some strategies secretly and secretly, but I'm interested in a country that provides full employment, but also in the one that takes care of their assets and their assets. The property is not taken into account in this way and as long as someone who has allowed this very valuable property to disappear in this period we will not have its real list and the final account will not have the content that you want. I don't doubt it, but in this way without credible accounting documentation, which we're asking for by amendment, you can't provide.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44399	Parliamentarians Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Obradović, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Mr. Petkovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44400	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, in the amendments and additions to this law in article 35, the establishment of a fiscal council is envisaged. The fiscal council should assess whether the government is running fiscal policy in accordance with the rules set out in this bill. The fiscal council should be an independent body, to be politically impartial, to have three members, whose members are proposed by the president of the Republic, the finance minister and the governor of the NBS. The finance minister, of course, was suggested by Mr Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, not to be fooled by Mirko Cvetkovic. The governor of the NBS also proposed that the president of the Republic and this assembly elect him, and the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic proposes the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, apparently alone, to introduce Serbia in 2015. Now such an impartial body, proposed by these three authorised legislators, will be elected by the ruling majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have submitted an amendment to this article really wanting to point out how much more you care about the form than the essence, that really some rules, principles and procedures are respected in this country, so we have suggested that one member of this fiscal council propose parties that do not have representatives in the government, means opposition parties to the number of MPs in the National Assembly. Of course, we did not expect you to accept this amendment, although we do consider it to be a kind of impartial control and control that can be carried out over the work of this body. You have just said that this does not guarantee the consistent implementation of this law and you have cited examples that in some Member States the fiscal council is, say, DRI, and that, believe me, on Monday, we knew that Mr Tijanic would make his wish to collect from the National Assembly three million euros, we would suggest that one member of the fiscal council be the Director of Public Service. But to save time and money for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since apparently one hour of transfers from the National Assembly, Mr Tijanic is tariffd with a thousand euros, when they translate those 3,000 hours into three million euros, the bill is simple. What did we conclude from today's debate? That only naives believe that Serbia will join the EU in 2015. You yourself admitted that you should have passed a special fiscal responsibility law, not to regulate that matter through 30 amendments to the Budgetary System Act. We have again concluded that the problem of our budget is an unfavourable structure, that most of it is liquid consumption, not investment. We have concluded that the level of funding that will be allocated to pensions of 14% already in 2013 will fall to 10% in the budget. We have concluded, in the end, that you will not have a majority in the voting day for this law, because if you really care about the interests of the pensioners and the most socially endangered categories of the population, or PUPS representatives, or SPS representatives, and for other reasons Mr Balint Pastor and his parliamentary group will not support this law. Be assured that the DSS will behave in this way and that it will be pleased to support some of the amendments that some parties have put forward in the ruling coalition on the proposal for this law, that we will vote for them. I'm not sure we'll be able to discuss the changes and additions to such a bad legal proposal again very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44401	National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Madam Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, if some of the opposition's amendments were to be accepted, this would certainly be the reason why he was rejected. Col. Petkovic made it very clear what the DSS parliamentary group wanted really well on this amendment, and given that one of the most important jobs, the biggest responsibilities of each government in each country is to take care of the citizens' budget because the citizens' budget is not the government's profit, the government is not an economic organisation. These are the funds of all citizens, hard collected, which the government should care about and are given to the government only for temporary management, from elections to elections, and responsible management of them. Therefore, an explanation of why the amendment is rejected says, the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposal that members of the fiscal council propose three parties that do not support the government, which are the largest in the number of MPs, in order to create preconditions for the consistent implementation of fiscal principles and rules, is currently not guaranteed, does not guarantee consistent implementation of fiscal principles and fiscal rules, because the law provides for the mandate of the members of the fiscal council of six years, while the term of office is four years, and the budgetary cycle in which fiscal rules apply refers to one budget year. On the contrary, we felt that this is exactly how the fiscal council put together guaranteed complete control, responsible control of the funds of citizens entrusted to the government. What was supposed to be the basic principle of democracy, in which we all swear and what transparent thing we are waving at the EU, which we are moaning so much and, as our colleague said, we will not enter before 2015, and we will not, of course, know it well. So, just one of the real principles of democracy, the basic principles, would have been to accept this amendment, which would allow citizens to have these funds that even over three of the largest opposition parties, so those who have the relevant electoral body behind them, have insight into this part of the fiscal policy of one government. That is why this amendment should have been accepted. I call on the minister to think again about this, regardless of this reasoning and regardless of the other part of the explanation where it says, it is said that in practice most countries are proposing a member of the fiscal council of the state, the governor of the central bank, the finance minister or the president of the State Auditing Institution. We have brought everything here quite transparently into the hands of one or two people, but I think that supervision of this should certainly have Serbian citizens through representatives of the strongest opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44403	National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44404	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, this member defines the way in which the fiscal council was elected, and your idea was, we said several times, to make that body independent. If representatives or members of the fiscal council are independent, then they must not have party colors. Professionality should not know politics, if this body will deal with professional analysis of the whole process. It is indisputable that there is a congregation majority of 127-128 MPs in this congregation. Doesn't it seem to you that this body would really be independent by clearly writing criteria for the people that this job should be doing, and then proposing them to the opposition? Of course the opposition cannot vote, the ruling majority will vote, provided they meet all the necessary criteria. That way we'd get a body that does quality work. I think the essence of reform and the essence of all that awaits us is that we have as clear a rule as possible and that politics should not interfere in matters where it does not belong. If we need to have an expert evaluation of some things and if there are clearly defined rules, if there are no hidden cash flows, if it's completely clear where budgets are spent, then it's less who's going to work. Both you and I know that unfortunately in Serbia there are not an unlimited number of experts who can and who want to accept to be members of the council. I wish there were a lot more of them, because it sure would be better for all of us, but it's gonna be hard to find these people, like it's hard to find candidates for some other function. Unfortunately, for such an important law and such an important matter, we are discussing far fewer MPs than is thought to be. I think this debate will take much longer and we will discuss all the elements of this extremely important law. I would like this law to guarantee that the finance minister will do his job uninterruptedly, I was hoping that this law would ensure that government colleagues do not race to explain how the finance minister does not have a certain authority, do not race to explain that the statement by the finance minister is not something their parties advocate. This certainly does not lead to good economic policy and does not lead to an exit from the crisis. Whether Serbia has come out of the crisis and if we are still vulnerable, it will show time. I think we are facing a number of challenges and Serbia's economy and economy is much more vulnerable than can be seen from TV channels. Everything is a problem in Serbia. If you renovate one bridge, half of Serbia stands because two strips are being repaired on Gazela. Other countries have bridges, so they don't stop everything in their country when these bridges are fixed. It is similar with corridors, it is similar with all other things, because in Serbia everything is a problem. I am sure that, regardless of what this law will probably be passed, which will be adopted by those rules that next year and in the years to come, we will have endlessly many explanations that justify why fiscal rules are being violated and what is unpredictable that enables us not to respect what we have adopted. Unfortunately, that will be the seventh law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44405	Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44406	With this amendment, I wanted to draw attention to this important advice not only that it takes theoretically one experience over five years, I think it should have some practical experience and that such an important advice deserves people with greater experience, because fiscal advice is an independent body, literally, will function out of control of this Assembly. My amendment was directed in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44407	National MP Vitomir Mihajlovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44408	The purpose of this amendment is to protect domestic experts in some way, since we believe that, the minister certainly knows that, in the economic sphere, we have political and legal experts who are equal to those from abroad. We also believe that the experience with people like Albert Jager or Bogdan Lisovolik who are, most rarely, acting inappropriately in the function in which they are in the country, who are constantly warning us that we should reduce pensions, that there is no need to increase expenditure on health care, education, education, and education, shows that it is a kind of political representative working on a single distribution of our economy. And by the way, Albert Jeger himself, you know he was the head of the Eastern European IMF Mission and, if I'm wrong, in Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine, he shows that there are no good results. You know that after his departure, the largest inflation in Europe was recorded in Ukraine. There are also no better indicators in Bulgaria and Romania, so to say the least, we show a kind of suspicion of such a kind of expert that I believe will appear here in the fiscal council. We believe that there are people who are sufficiently professional, who do not have to be party engaged, such as your colleague Predrag Jovanovic Gavrilović or Dusanić Jovan, which is not only Mr Katic and academic Kocic, meaning there are people who are professional, who are not party employees, who can fulfill these tasks and be independent above all, not only of the Serbian government, but of the IMF, who clearly define the country's economic policy in the wrong and harmful way, above all for our pensioners and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44409	Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44410	By amendment to Article 37, we are in fact responding to permitting different treatment in the Treasury Administration compared to all other beneficiaries of the budget, as the basic member of the 100th existing law in the last position, which previously obliged the Treasury Administration to return the neutral assets of Article 3 to the budget no later than the end of the financial year. Now this member is deleted and the Treasury Administration is allowed to keep those funds, and with an explanation that, as it is financed from its own incomes, it must somehow function in the first few months when the inflow into the budget is weak. Whether and how the Treasury Office functioned last year, for example, because we passed this law in July and this worked. Nothing catastrophic happened. We didn't hear there was any problem in the functioning of the state. I have submitted an amendment to this article precisely for the reason that it seems indicative to me, where unnecessary concessions are made to the Treasury Administration as part of the Ministry of Finance on a matter that seems irrelevant, and in fact it can be said – the Treasury Administration provides itself with better conditions than others because it collects revenues from making compensation for public payment services for everyone else. This small concession is one way that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, today Mrs Diana Dragutinović, tomorrow, someone else, is getting out of the hands of a large decision and jurisdiction, and in fact he's giving in to things that I know aren't important to you personally, it's very important that there are people who regularly receive salaries, who are stimulated to do their job with maximum commitment. But this is not a way of breaking the reputation of the Ministry of Finance that has been taken from the hands of many responsibilities, where many other ministries take the right to do what your job is to establish a fiscal council that will show progress in the progress report in achieving fiscal responsibility to question what the finance minister is doing. And does the finance minister have jurisdiction over all the other ministries that spend money from the budget, not that it's not a question but that you have no opportunity to influence it and you will be responsible. That's why I don't think this law is right, and I'm going to repeat the story. I don't have inside information how many people work in which sector, whether it's shown on the site, it doesn't even matter if you have less than people who will work in the fiscal council, but if at first the fiscal council will have 19 people, of which 15 special advisers, I ask who will prepare for those special advisors the documentary basis and the amendments reports, for the laws that will be passed here, and who will have an impact on the budget, who will be able to prepare all this for the budget if 15 special advisers, or a lot of corporals for those four rowers or a lot of costs for Serbia's budget if they are hired, as it says in law, sides, domestic and other experts to work for them. We have many of those who want to command, we don't have those who want to work, and those who need to make decisions and think about what's going on, we're burying a mass of paperwork reports of approval papers that can't even see what's going on. So the effect that you do not delete this attitude is a rule that should apply to everyone. Unspent funds are returning to the budget at the end of the financial year, but you should not have allowed yourself to remove from your hands what one finance minister must keep under his control and therefore the Progressive Serbia, SNS Group will vote against amending and supplementing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44411	The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vitomir Mihajlovic and Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Madam Minister, would you like to call before I close the search? Yeah. ) (Miroslav Markicevic, from the place: I answer the word. You want to follow this last amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44412	President, I have received a warning from citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission not to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, where there are no ministers and MPs. There's only one president in our Rules of Procedure. Madam Minister, since I see that you from the Government ministers have since the beginning of this regular session introduced a new practice not to participate in a dialogue with the MPs, who, according to their powers, education and knowledge, are asking what the citizens are interested in at the end and then the session ends, and that is why I am reporting, and I know that it may be too much for some. Since I have also asked the President of the Assembly, since these days we need to build a draft budget of the Assembly, and the budget of the Assembly is nothing but part of the Serbian state budget, and I have not received answers to some questions, Madam President, I think you will certainly not allow the information I ask of you as a MP through the Information Commissioner, I insist that you give all MPs a contract with a public service from which we will see that we owe 3.3m euros as a National Assembly. That's what the media said. This is how our meeting with Mr Tijanic was presented, and these 3.3m euros will not be provided by anyone else but by the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Dragutinovic. That's what we should know, especially what we heard today in the printed media that an hour of direct transmission costs 2,500 euros. Thus, today cost 25,000 euros. We want to see the contract. We want to see how many executives were in the National Assembly every day and make it easier for Mrs. Minister, or Mrs. Minister. Madam Minister, I have one more question for you. I hope you will answer these questions as well. As for the budget of the Nish City Assembly, our argument in court, New Serbia, will be your opinion and your solution. I don't suppose you're going to let the new costs that the citizens of Serbia end up paying again, file criminal charges against the president of the Niš City Assembly and the mayor of the city of Nis. You can settle this in five minutes, send a budget inspection, so that those who have not purposely spent their resources from the Nish budget will be eligible and that those who follow the law will be paid for it. I have another quick question for you. As I understand this law and as you explain, and we criticise, this law is in fact preparing for, not only an obligation towards the IMF and the EU, the adoption of a new budget. What do you think you're doing with local transfers, municipalities and cities in Serbia that have been denied millions and millions? Some presidents of the municipality and from your party, Madam Minister, claim it was done against the law. Do you think even in the people's budget, in a way, you should cut the money? I don't need to remind you that a bunch of these couples have been earned in the territories of these municipalities and cities. It's warm season. There's an increase in energy prices. Many are in very difficult situations. I don't need to tell you that municipalities, or local self-government, are also responsible for heating schools, libraries, and kindergartens. What's next for them? Can they expect anything and have I, Madam Minister, heard well from the Prime Minister a few days ago that some billion dinars will be in a system, by some odds, somehow recovered from these funds that are being cut off? Some serious experts, I'm telling you seriously, say it was done against the law. What are you going to do with those local transfers? Can these presidents of municipalities, local administrations and self-government, who run these cities, expect this kind of disaster to hit them in the next budget that we hope to adopt in time this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44413	The word is from Dr Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to your remarks and statements, as I have carefully read all the amendments. As everyone knows, there have been 44 amendments. We didn't accept 32, and 12 did, about 30%. Since I'm always honest with you in my answers, I have to say that there have been amendments that I've turned down with a heavy heart. There were two groups of amendments. One group of amendments referred to what some MPs call a lecture, others insist, and these are definitions of transparency and flexibility, and essentially a larger number of amendments refer to what the budget system represents. Certainly important amendments are submitted from the field of fiscal responsibility, but in a much smaller number than I really expected. I'm not going to talk about the amendments that were accepted right now, or explain why I accepted them. I accepted it because I really think they've improved this law, which I think is good and I believe will be respected, at least in the greatest part of it. I will refer to those who are not accepted. When it comes to definitions, I really think things should be called a real name and I've never run away from transparency, and I've always tried to make every next budget more transparent than the last one. You're having a hard time changing habits and years of practice. I want to repeat some important things that have been re-emphasized here today. The law on the budget system in Serbia, as well as in any other country, and that is easily verifiable, really refers only to so-called. General State, and the general state is defined by this law. It does not cover and does not refer to the whole public sector involving public enterprises, companies and regulatory bodies. The budget system law applies only to the general state. I have changed, conditionally speaking, the definition of the budget because I really thought that in our case, given that unless it's a precisely defined budget, it is possible to add things that don't normally add up and add things that don't add up to very biased conclusions. However, I would have to say that there is a significant difference between the definition proposed to be the definition of the budget by a previous law by one MP and the current one. That difference is that we can't add real financial transactions, we don't leave anything out, we just group them into two accounts. Like I said yesterday, it's like your character and his reflection in the mirror. They don't add up. If you have a deficit, you have to finance it somehow. What happens to a different definition? You collect income and all receipts, expenses and all expenses. Basically, you get a picture that it's an accounting balance, and we're far from accounting balance. I didn't want to cover anything up. On top of that, the budget is often taken as a measure to determine individual expenditures. You know that funding political parties is also about what's called the budget. In order not to have a dilemma if, on average, some expenditure is determined from the budget, it can only be in relation to the real transaction. As for the definition of financial removal, control, internal audit and criticism of individual MPs when it comes to these definitions, I would like to remind all of you together, the public in general that these terms actually refer to the management, supervisory, control and audit of national public funds and EU funds, and that I have then only introduced that definition that stands in terms of 32 financial controls and refers to what we receive annually from European funds, which is about 250m to 300m euros. I couldn't change the definition of something that was also intended for national public funds and EU funds. They have a special way of reviewing. I understand the concern of individual MPs that the Republic Statistical Institute should not be an institution that determines the list of entities. But I'd like to explain it one more time. So I didn't change anything, I just added. There are two lists. One list is a list of those budget beneficiaries who enter a consolidated vault account, budget, direct, indirect and different out-of-budget funds that enter a consolidated vault account and there is another list that serves to determine what the general state, public or state sector is and statistics are in charge of all countries. It has nothing to do with including budget direct and indirect users in the single system of consolidated vault accounts. Only this small change and the MP will remember our debates well when the new law is passed in July. So, by expanding the list of budget direct and indirect users that we have included in the consolidated vault account, it has done the following thing - that every day I have an average of 20 billion dinars more in my account, which says a lot about how much savings there is when it comes to borrowing the state. Yesterday I had an interesting meeting with representatives of a Greek bank and learned something I had never known before. I've heard from you many times, and it's not easy for me to hear it, that there are strong and there are weak finance ministers, that weak finance ministers are actually those finance ministers that someone doesn't support somewhere. If we really want to be honest, you can think of me as weak or strong, I'm heightly weak, weighty, too, but I think I have some knowledge that's not little. Generally, most European models are such that finance ministers essentially control the implementation of the budget and that the budget is a coalition deal. There is a group of countries, one of the MPs mentioned by Israel, perhaps an even better example of Great Britain and France, where indeed the entire finances are in the hands of the finance minister and prime minister. I may regret that it is not so here in the country of Serbia, because I really think public finances are a wonderful area and that much could change that the role of the finance minister is and that it determines the size of the state and that it determines not only the level and limits of public income and public expenditure, but also its structure and sustainability, etc. But in the country of Serbia, as in many other countries, the budget is a coalition agreement and the finance minister essentially has the power to control the implementation of the budget. Of course, ensuring that the budget is sustainable. That's his second role. So yesterday I heard that in Greece, the finance minister is not even responsible for the budget. So, the budget is adopted, and ministers are executed, regardless of what was adopted in parliament as a budget. However, our Budget System Law clearly says that it cannot be spent more than parliament has approved, nor for other purposes for which parliament has not given approval. In that sense, I responsibly claim that the Ministry of Finance does not have any debt to other users. What can happen is that some local level has debts to some users, according to construction firms etc., has some drug-produced pharmacy, but we wanted decentralisation and that's decentralisation. Local levels of government can, and they don't have to decide whether the funds that are public money will be held in a consolidated vault account, that's the freedom that we gave and you approved. I don't think there's an objection, and I would point out once again that the changes in this law are a step back when it comes to transparency. Therefore, privatisation revenues are included in the total revenue and in the budget. It's just a financial transaction. Therefore, they are included in the receipts from the sale of financial assets. You can see that in the 2010 Budget Law. This year's lack of privatisation income, so there's no number, doesn't say much. The fact is that this law certainly involves privatisation revenues in the budget, but as receipts and as a financial transaction, as a way to finance the budget deficit. Also, erasing gambling fees, I would say again, was not really motivated by any desire to cover up anything. Currently, in the context of concession fees, as one group of income, there is only one, meaning concession fees for the organisation of gambling. If you didn't ask me to, say, when we say tax types, so when we say there's a tax that's called a tax on new value or excise tax, to specifically separate what is, say, a VAT that's paid at a lower or reduced rate, what is it that pays by a higher, what kind of excise tax there are, etc., so is it really necessary that only when it comes to concession fees are so detailed? I think there's something else here. Maybe a way of showing revenue in the Budget Law and budget implementation, whether we're going to apply a two-digit or three-digit economic classification. Here, I can try to provide for a more detailed income classification for the 2011 budget, so that the revenues are shown in the same way as the expenditure, with a three-digit, therefore, more detailed economic classification. You know very well that I'm not some big fan of my own income and I've listened very carefully and read all those amendments that have criticized so-called. saving or asking to save those own incomes. These own revenues were formed by special laws and were inherited, unfortunately. There are so many that it's very hard to change and make a cut. I just think I did it with this law. First, in a way that I gave the minister, and that says about the finance minister when it comes to the vault, the right to deploy its own incomes and this law they are mandatory, the ministries and all the users who make their own incomes to show them as real as possible. All that surplus that's not spent, he's lying in a consolidated vault account anyway. I know that in certain cases it is justified to introduce your own income, but that number of cases is relatively small. That's, say, the price for some public service, say, registration, for using public infrastructure, for example, tolls, and that's possibly some participation or tuition. However, we have more than a hundred laws that regulate it, which occurred over a long period of time. It's hard to end overnight, for now, and I think it's enough of me, that fact that we want to get them under control and stop their further formation. When it comes to the Treasury, I didn't want to put the Treasury in a more unfavourable position than the other users who made budget revenues. I saw that it was not accepted by the enthusiasm of eradicating a member who defines the obligations to define the medium-term investment priorities. So I erased this more for practical reasons because, let's say in this period that is ahead of us, at least that's how we keep saying it, is the capital investment priority. So it's called more physical capital. So once you build this Corridor 10, the road and the railway and those roads or highways that lead to the Adriatic, we might change our priorities. And we need to change them. Let the priorities then be investment in human capital. In that sense, since this law actually ensures that you are planning for a three-year period, it is already a medium-term framework and already in some ways income is determined. It has been criticised, of course, flexibility in budget implementation. Again I say – my nature is more suited to having a budget and to strictly stick to it and it is a very simple job for the finance minister. Parliament has approved it, can only be implemented to that amount, only for those purposes. But it's really very difficult, in terms of market economy, when it's all uncertain, that you plan so precisely. Indeed, there is a great literature that speaks of what individual countries or governments are doing to increase their flexibility. You can't really do everything by the book. You have to have a certain degree of discretion, both in monetary and fiscal policy and everything is a matter of measure. I don't think we've gone too far with these changes. I would now perhaps move on to these amendments concerning, after all, fiscal responsibilities and fiscal rules, so, practically, the reason for the amendments to this law. There have been a lot of criticism and amendments addressed to the role of fiscal council. The council doesn't have a control function and it's nowhere to be found, it's not his function. There are really different advices in different countries, but they were mostly used by three of its roles. So you can take these fiscal advices according to the function they perform to divide into three categories. One, which only provides analyses, means objective analyses of movements in fiscal policy and objective analysis of how much some budgetary or cost initiatives cost. The other council group deals only with assumptions based on the budget, meaning assumptions and projections of budget variables and macroeconomic variables. Third, one that has essentially the most power, but not in terms of punishment, but in terms of power in terms of creating public opinion, affecting public opinion, or obtaining or losing reputation risk or credibility. It is that group of fiscal councils which, in fact, gives a credible opinion on whether the government is implementing fiscal policy in accordance with the rules. That's the part I wanted him to have with this fiscal advice. There is only one country, and this is the Netherlands, which has given its fiscal council a greater role and essentially, the fiscal council is a new partner in the coalition government. So if, say, you have a government that has three coalition partners, when it comes to the budget, the fourth is involved and that's fiscal advice. But, like I said, it's just one country in the world. Amendments were also proposed to delete the fiscal rules for local government. I think the rules should apply to all levels of government, so when the burden of fiscal adjustment is borne, then everyone, and Vojvodina, and local levels, and municipalities, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of course, and social security funds. When something like a right is given to the central level of government, which is a golden rule, it can have a deficit of what its investments are, then the same right should also be given to local levels of government. One MP referred me to a question related to transfers by the republican budget to local levels of government - did we break the law? I can tell the truth and only the truth. You see, the truth is about what I just said. So all levels of government, including local levels of government, must bear the burden of adaptation. The burden of fiscal adjustment cannot be borne only by pensioners, only public administration employees, local government levels must. It really wasn't under the Law on the financing of local self-government, I think we all know that. So local transfers are set as 1.7% of GDP in the previous year, but the Budget Law is also a law, like some Lex specialis law that's only been valid for one or more years, so that was legal. Since budget rebalance is under way, you know it's been approved that one billion dinars go to municipalities on some key that will favour those municipalities that are poorer. So the rebalancing is under way, or the rebalancing is under way. It will be implemented and those poorer municipalities will get something more. What happens next year? It's still a matter of negotiation. Personally, I would like the Law on the financing of local self-government to be respected, however, as some other changes are planned to contribute to local self-government, such as the Property Tax Act, I think it is still too early to talk about at this point. It was an interesting amendment, I must admit, one which essentially criticises the bias of the fiscal council set out in the proposed way, means when members propose the president of the Republic, the governor and the finance minister and says it is biased and suggests another solution which he does not say is biased, but that the proposal stems from opposition parties. So if it's bias, it's bias on both sides. I always personally think that professional, high professional demands are the best guarantee that something that is easily verifiable for an ordinary MP, let alone for someone with such expertise, will be the best guarantee of the objectivity of the analysis. Also, there was a proposal to increase the number of years of work experience, that's what I was talking about. Sometimes it takes experience, sometimes very specific knowledge, sometimes these specific knowledge doesn't have people here, no matter how much we think we have qualified people. Not even one such country as Switzerland at its research centre in central bank 50% of the people hired foreigners in fact. Our wages will not be such that they will attract foreigners, I'm not afraid of it, it's just a leftover possibility that if someone wants to help and has the knowledge they need, which local people don't have, that they're welcome in our open country, I hope. I have to admit that I liked the amendment or the proposal, rule 0.75, or that every year it's shrinking, or we adapt by 0.75%. So that's any rule I put into law. It is simple, easily verifiable and can be explained that we need fiscal adjustment, regardless of the stage of the economic cycle we are in. This somewhere was an explicit request from the IMF regarding the fact that you still have to have flexibility. Let's say, when normal economic growth is and you're in the phase of some normal economic growth, you're going to adapt to that rule over a three-year period. If the crisis lasts longer, if the growth rates are relatively slower than two or three percent, the adjustment will take a little longer. It's thought that by a rule that's not that simple, it's a little more complicated, but not too much, it allows for a better response to any shocks. There were amendments that, on the one hand, considered that the limit set for the level of public debt of 45% should include a debt of restitution, with an explanation that 45% is an extremely large debt. On the other hand, there have been amendments not to consider fiscal responsibility when regulating debt based on restitution. I think this is really unacceptable because all injustices cannot be corrected, they can be tempered, and especially should not be corrected by the doing of new injustices. So this law should ensure a fair distribution of tax burdens and payments to present and future generations. When we talk about how much it takes to get someone back, it should always be kept in mind that it should be brought back by our children. Also, there were a lot of stories about how much we're in debt, etc., whether it's much or little. Again, it has always been said on one side that the state is in debt, everyone forgets the other side, that the state is in debt, but also in debt during the same year, that debt is planned, but is planned and paid and the degree of duty, there are different indicators mentioned by different MPs, yet the best says the participation of interest in the social product. In Serbia, interest expenditure is about 1% of the social product, the most common range is between 2% and 4%, 4% is much, but 2% is something that, to say the unweighted arithmetical environment, so our borrowing costs. Service debt in the form of interest payments best tells us how much we really owe. I would refer to some more questions – will pensions be paid, or 5,000 dinars for those pensioners who have received below 30,000? Of course they'll be paid. It's one of the reasons why budget rebalances are being made. So it's not true that there's no money in the budget, the budget is liquid. What is true, that parliament did not approve, that there is simply no appraisal from which it can be paid. We have paid one-off payments to public sector employees, but the money needed for these purposes could be found in the framework of approved appraisals. This, however, is a sum of seven billion dinars and the finance minister does not have such flexibility, fortunately, in execution, that he can carry out without parliament's approval such payment. I suppose one MP is more informed than I am when it comes to budget inspection and her findings, but as far as I know, I know that only a week ago did the budgetary inspection begin its control of the city of Nis, that one of our budgetary inspectors was seven days away, that he came back and intended to go back to the city of Nis. So the budget inspection is under way. I've heard a lot of interesting things, to say the same experiences, let's say, an example of Hungary and how I should be copying the Minister of Finance of Hungary. I don't want to copy it, I don't want to copy a Hungarian fiscal council either, because it's a advice that has 70 employees, although the president of that council is the man who wrote perhaps the largest number of papers in the field of fiscal responsibility, Mr. Kopik. They, by one, have an arrangement with the IMF; under two, not only have they introduced a tax on financial transactions, if that's what you wanted to tell me, they've increased many tax rates, so let's say the VAT rate in Hungary is 25%, so they've increased all excise and property taxes. Although they have introduced a tax on financial transactions despite increasing all these tax rates, they still have a deficit of about 5% of the social product. It's easy to criticize the prognosis. One of the MPs criticised the course forecasts, probably on one round table today, it's easy to criticise, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't make forecasts. I just want to remind you that if you really want to criticize, we need to remind ourselves of the fact, and the fact is that it is nominal and dinar depressed by 30%, that as a result there has been a adjustment of the balance of payments from 18% of the social product to about 5% of the social product. So, there's been a huge adjustment, 13% of the social product, at a price called depression. Among 5% of the social product to balance is much less than it is between 18 and 5, so we should look at and criticise any forecasts in that light. Our fiscal council is not really big, but it is not fair to compare it only to the budget sector within the finance ministry. The budget sector really has a small number of people, but it only prepares the budget, with every ministry and every direct budget user having its own financial service that prepares and sends the sector into the budget. Also, there are people in the Treasury who deal with budget implementation, so there is a sector that deals with macroeconomic analyses and fiscal projections, meaning it prepares all projections and forecasts. So it's still a large number of people. The fiscal council itself doesn't ask for any new information, he's looking for the information that every MP has to do to run the analysis. So I think our fiscal advice and the number of people is the right measure, are people who are essentially going to do targeted analysis based on otherwise available data. Someone criticised a much more general economic situation in the country than they criticized the law itself. Maybe I'd just say a few sentences, that there is no safe market, that there is no state that can guarantee everyone everything and ask ourselves every time we ask the state if we can promise our children everything, health and long life, happiness and work, and that's the ones we love the most. There is no economic policy defined for so-called economic policy. certain regions. It's the competition that leads to progress. You don't need to be fenced with a Chinese wall, you should remember China a long time ago, when it was big, rich and powerful, when it was open. China needs to be remembered and now it's starting to be powerful again as open. Finally, to finish, I'd like to say that, based on everything I've heard, there is a factor for and a factor against fiscal rules. Those who are in favour of fiscal rules, and I'm on that side, too, are for two reasons. One reason is the shortsightedness of the government, but not just these and not only in Serbia, all governments, because all governments are referring to future elections and something called the problem of common resources. So if you have coalition governments, they're all practically targeting the same resources and, in order to achieve maximum results, eventually lead to a bad situation. In order to prevent these two problems, it means short-sightedness on one side and the problem of common resources, I am for these rules. Of course, there are those who are against it because they doubt the government's political will, because they believe the rules can easily be broken, that these rules do not affect the structure of expenditure etc. With this proposal, I really wanted to minimise all risks, especially the fact that the rules are incorporated into the law, especially the fact that all levels of government are involved, especially the fact that there is a fiscal council that has the capacity to give an opinion on whether or not the government respects the rules. Much stronger than sanctions or fines, I mean, it is a loss of trust. Stressing that this law will apply in 2011, so both for this and for future governments, I believe that you will think carefully and still vote for this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-06-0.u44415	Let us, on your behalf and on your behalf, thank the Minister for really one explanation which, I think, has been useful both to the citizens and to all of us, given that it is a profession that has been done in the way the Minister explained, simplified and brought closer to the ordinary citizen the subject of our work. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We will continue to work tomorrow by searching the specifics of the Law on Accreditation and Consumer Protection Act. Thank you for your active participation in the work, and I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs, or the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, if anyone wants to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (Yes) Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, please.
