ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42544	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, the sitting is attended by 120 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present. To determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Mladen Grujic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to point 1 - Proposal for an ELECTRON COMMUNICATION LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft e-communication law to the vote, in principle. The vote was 117 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic to Article 3; Milica Vojić Markovic and Dr Nikola Lazic to Article 3; Aleksandra Jerkov to Article 5 by correction; 28, 83, 84, on Article 104, with correction and Article 132, with correction and Dr Vladan Batić on Art. In 60 and 143, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee on Transport and Links to Art. 4, 43, 66, 79, 92, 130, 141 and 147. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 126 MPs, two voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 5th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and MP Dejan Radenkovic. Of the 126 MPs, the amendment voted 7. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group and together by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 126 MPs, 116 voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 14th Amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. Of 126 MPs, 9 for. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 15th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 16th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 15th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 20th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 25th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 29th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 31st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted an amendment to Article 33. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, submitted together to the 37th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 46th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 55th Amendment. Of the 126 MPs, the amendment voted 7. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 56th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 88th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 89th Amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 107th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 126th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 127th Amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. Of the 126 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 130th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment to Article 138. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of members 142 and Article 142 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 142. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 144th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward to Serbia’ group submitted to Article 147 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm voting on the draft e-communication law, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on electronic communications. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the founding of the REGION School for State Administration (RESPA) After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, before moving to a decision, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 105(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. Given that the amendment has been submitted to this proposal, I would firstly like to put to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration (RESPA) in principle. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 MPs voted in favour. Most of the votes of all MPs were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing a Regional School for State Administration (RESPA) in general. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Regional School of State Administration (RESPA) agreement with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SPECIFICATIONS OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the Government and the Committee for Education accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, I find that the integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments to the National Ambassadors: Miletic Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic to Article 1, Lasla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to Article 2, Jon Magda, with correction, to Article 2, Miletić Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronijevic to whom they proposed a new member of 4a, Donka Banović, Aleksandr Pejčić and Milice Vojić Marković to Article 11, Lassla Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to be added to Article 14. Lasla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond on Article 20, Miletić Mihajlovic and Milisav Petronivic on Article 21, Zoran Šamija, Milice Vojić Marković, Donke Banović, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandr Pejčić on Article 23, Miletic Mihajlovic on Article 27, Zorana Šamija, Milice Vojić Marković, Donke Banović, Nikola Lazić and Aleksandr Pejcic on Article 29 and Vladan Batic on Article 33, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Education to Articles 11, 16 and 24. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an incomplete amendment to Article 11, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic. Discarded amendments are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Parliamentarians Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, five voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 5th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Nada Kolundžija. Of 126 MPs, 121 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 8a after article 8. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Members of Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, two voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 10th amendment. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Vučković. Of the 126 MPs, six MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Hope Kolundji. 126 MPs voted for this amendment by 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the amendment. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, one MP voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Of the 126 MPs, six MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was accompanied by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond and MP Jon Magda. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was brought together by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond and MP Jon Magda. Of the 126 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 14, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, three voted for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted an amendment adding a new member of 14a after article 14. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted an amendment adding a new Article 14a after Article 14. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nada Kolundžija, Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic together submitted the 16th amendment. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nenad Prokic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 17a after article 17. Of the 131 MPs, five voted. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic and Nenad Prokic together submitted an amendment adding a new article 18a after article 18a. Of the 131 MPs, five voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Krpic submitted an amendment adding new members 18a, 18b, 18v and 18g after Article 18. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic and Nenad Prokic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Nada Kolundžija, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 21st Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted the 24th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Jon Magda. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 24th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Of the 127 MPs, two MPs voted. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 28 of the amendment, with corrections, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted. During the search in particular, a representative of the proposing Dr. Zarko Obradovic, the minister of education, accepted the amendment, with corrections. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 31st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you that the amendment of MP Vladan Batic to article 33 has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, which provides for the law to enter into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the amendment adopted, it is stated that, in particular, the reasons for the early entry into force of this law are to provide for conditions for the timely application of the law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 125 were notified to the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF WITNESSES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on judicial warlocks, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the bill. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 6, which was submitted by MP Judita Popovic, and on the basis of Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and not voted on, as well as that an integral part of the bill became amendments to the MPs: Zoran Krasic on Article 1, Dejan Mirovic on Article 2, Mirko Cikiriza on Article 2. 3, 15 and 19, Vladan Batić in Art. 8th and 27th, together Milice Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalić per article. 10, 19 and 25, Nemanje Sarovic on Article 16, Aleksandr Martinović on Article 18, Boris Aleksic on Article 19, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group 19th and 25th and amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration to Article 6. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 5th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, proposed to add a new Article 5a after Article 5a, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of the 127 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, proposed to add a new Article 7a after Article 7, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendments were not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’. Of 127 MPs. No one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 16th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Please make your statement on this amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Of the 127 MPs, 121 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment, proposed to add Article 19a after Article 19a, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ Group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, proposed to add Article 22a after Article 22a, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ Group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of the 127 MPs, four voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of the 127 MPs, three voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, proposed to add Article 30a after Article 30a, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ Group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on judicial warlocks, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the law, so I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on judicial experts. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, the bill was voted on in principle by 122, so I find that the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Having adopted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure rejected as an incomplete amendment by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group to Article 2. It's a bill of law. The rejected amendment shall not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted upon, and in accordance with Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of 126 MPs, for one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, for 106. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, for 116. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 4th amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, a group of 21 MPs from the ‘Forward Serbia’ group and together by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 126 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 126 MPs, 109 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 9th Amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 127 MPs, one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 14, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group and MP Branko Ljiljak. Proposal representative Radovan Jelasic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 106 voted yes. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted the 19th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Nikolic, Radojko Obradovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic together submitted the 19th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Radojko Obradovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 19a be added after article 19a. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 20th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with a correction, legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted yes. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 127 MPs, two voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by an international MP, Bojan Mladenovic, and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted yes. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milovan Radovanovic and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 127 MPs, two voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Proposal representative Radovan Jelasic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 30th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted yes. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 33. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 35th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 36th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 38th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 39th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 46th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 49, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted the 49th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 50th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 51st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 61st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 64th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group and MP Branko Ljiljak. Proposer Radovan Jelasic, governor of the NBS, accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 126 MPs, 110 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 65th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 66, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 70th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 71st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward to Serbia’ group submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 73. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 112 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 74, with correction, a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 74th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 127 MPs, one National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 75th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 115 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 75th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 75th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 77th amendment, with correction. Proposing representative Radovan Jelasic, governor of the NBS, accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 81st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 82 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 85th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the amendment to Article 87. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 88th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. Proposer Radovan Jelasic, governor of the NBS, accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The government has accepted the amendment. The legislative amendment considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of 127 MPs, one for. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 89th Amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Dear People's MPs, we'll postpone the beginning of the session I scheduled in 1200 hours. It will begin after the vote is complete. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 91st Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 91st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 95th Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 98th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 99th Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the ‘Forward Serbia’ group submitted to the 100th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 100th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 101st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. I remind you he's a member of 101. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the bill's proposal, the National Bank of Serbia stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists in the need to bring the operation of the National Bank of Serbia in line with constitutional provisions as soon as possible, and to ensure the election and smooth functioning of the National Bank of Serbia's authorities following the resignation of the governors. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted yes. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the NBS Act, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted yes. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Consensus between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Community programme "the support programme for the development of IT and COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (ICT PSP) framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (CIP) (since 2007. Until 2013. "As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, before I move on to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 105 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. Since no amendments have been tabled under this bill, the National Assembly will only vote on the draft law in general. Of the 135 MPs, 134 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of military Serbia and other powers of defence in the multi-national operations in 2010. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, and before we move on to a decision-making decision in general, I remind you that point 2. The motion for a decision is scheduled to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the proposal for a decision, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this decision, in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists in that, given that the National Assembly, on the basis of the adopted Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2010, takes the decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010, it is necessary that the decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010 take effect the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Of the 136 MPs, 135 voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion that the decision should take effect earlier than the eighth day since the day of publication, I am now putting to the vote the motion for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2010, as a whole. Of the 136 MPs, 132 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2010. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF A SERVANT IN MULTIINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2010. THE year since the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010. Of the 136 MPs, all 136 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2010. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which the MPs pointed. I remind you of the provisions of Article 100(6) and Article 10, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 17 June 2010, at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. (The session ends at 12.10 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42545	THE THIRD EXCELLENT SESSION OF THE 29th June 2010 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Nemanja Komazec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Srdjan Jovic, head of the Office of Environment and Spatial Planning, and Milija Djalovic, head of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Tuesday, 29 June 2010, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in a given agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was convened at the request of 121 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 169. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Third Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010 the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under conditions of economic crisis, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a candidate to elect a Constitutional Court judge, who was submitted by the President of the Republic. I remind you that you have received notice from the Government No. 011-4778/2010 of 28 June 2010, withdrawing from the assembly procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which was intended to be considered as the 2nd item of the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of the Civil Industry of the Republic of Serbia in the Conditions of Economic Crisis (Principles) Before the opening of the principled search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliament group ZES - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliament group - hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward, Serbia" – 28 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 24 minutes; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group "New Serbia" – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – 8 minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - 6 minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic – PUPS Parliament Group; MP Djordje Milicevic – SPS-JS Group of MPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I'm taking a 60-minute break. We continue work at 13.10 p.m. [[After break – 13.15]] Ladies and gentlemen, you've received a bill from the government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate, stands as I have already informed you. Let me ask the representative of the promoter, Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, if he wants a word. Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a very important law in front of you that will help overcome one of the possibly deepest crises that has hit Serbian construction in the last few decades. The construction industry is a very important sector of the economy. It has a multiplier effect and there is almost no sector of economy that is not directly or indirectly linked to the construction sector. Each dinar invested in the construction industry leads to three dinars of investment in other sectors of the economy. Many have calculated that there are 35 industrial branches that are directly related to it. Also, every new job that opens in the construction industry leads to four new jobs in the sectors that support it. I think a brief analysis of the situation in the construction industry in both the country and the world should be done before the debate on this law itself. In developed countries, and I am talking primarily about EU countries, the global economic crisis has been the biggest blow to the construction industry and the real estate market in the last 90 years. According to the World labour market statistics, five million construction workers lost their jobs in 2008 alone thanks to the effects of the global economic crisis. As for the 2009 analysis, it is even bigger, so it can be said that over the last two years, around ten million construction workers have lost their jobs due to the global economic crisis. In some countries, a dramatic decline in construction activity is recorded. In some of the most developed countries, 50% of construction workers have lost their jobs. The 2010 projections suggest that countries that do not have serious support packages for the construction industry can expect further declines in the construction sector. What is the state of the construction industry in Serbia? Since the beginning of the year we have recorded very mild economic growth, from 1% in the first quarter of 2010. The growth of industrial production in Serbia in April 2010 is 11% higher than in April 2009. Unfortunately, however, we are still recording a decline in the construction industry, which continued in 2010. We have a fall that is nominally 23.1% compared to the same period of the previous year, with the most affected area of high construction, where the decline reached 49.1%. So we have a dramatic decline in activity in the construction sector and while all other sectors are very mild and very difficult to recover, but it is noted that this trend is going up, we still have a very bad situation in the construction sector. For this very reason, it was necessary to bring a package of measures that would represent a response from the government of the Republic of Serbia to this situation. First of all, we have identified the construction sector as a sector of particular national importance within the Global Economic Crisis Effect Overcoming Strategy and we have tried to, through measures to boost demand on the one hand and measures to strengthen the capacity of the construction industry and encourage supply, correct this situation. What have we done so far? Huge money is being invested in low-building, construction of Corridor 10 and other infrastructure projects. You can see that at this point, the works are being done, the tenders are being completed, the planned projects are being completed, or the expropriations, that different projects are starting. As you know, the goal of this government is to complete Corridor 10 by the end of the term of office, by the end of the elections, by May 2012, and to connect the highway with all the countries with which we are currently bordering. We also directly subsidise interest rates on consumer loans to purchase construction material. We will enable, and that is one of the packages of measures that will be before you as MPs very quickly, buying apartments on a lease, which is certainly a faster and cheaper alternative to buying apartments on a loan. We are planning a new model to subsidise the purchase of apartments that will include a more flexible approach to subsidies and we are planning to increase the resources that the state is devoting to finance the housing subsidisation programme. We have brought a package of measures that would mean an increase in supply, primarily through a government programme that subsidises interest on loans to finance housing up to 7%, where according to bank conditions today this represents almost covering the full cost of project financing and represents a very favourable basis for our builders. It is important to say that the trend of monitoring the efficiency of the public administration in issuing local building permits through support, above all, education and strengthening the capacity of our local self-government to respond quickly to the demands of people who want to build. Now I'd like to say something about this law. The aim of this law is to overcome the negative effects of the economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction, or to help the domestic construction industry exit the crisis. When we say the construction industry, it's very important that we define what it really is. Many, especially in the media, have followed this bill with skepticism, defining the construction industry primarily as an investor who has so far built apartments and sold at very expensive prices. For us, the construction industry is a group of companies where construction workers work. The construction industry is contractors, people who worked in the past for the interest of investors and did the paid job that the investor gave them. The construction industry is engineers, architects, urbanists, planners, masons, carpenters, carpenters, moths... So, the construction industry represents an army of our people who have so far participated in building everything that has been built in Serbia in the past and have nothing to do with the question why help is not given by encouraging them to lower the prices of squares of apartments in Belgrade or similar things. With that construction industry, there's nothing. It's the builders who are hanging from the skeletons, who are building our buildings, who need a job, and this help package has just been provided to those people who are sitting in the house today instead of being on the construction site. So this aid package is facing these small, mostly crafty companies, which are involved in construction work. The goal is to encourage development, employment of home operations, rescue existing jobs and the possibility of opening new jobs. Of course, as an additive effect of all this, the goal is also to increase the economic performance of our economy and our society. We are sure that if we start the construction sector, there will be very positive effects for other industries as well. What is the mechanism of this law? The government determines individual projects financed from public funds. So this law will ensure that a country, which is a good investor, pools funds with banks, starts and encourages the work of construction operations in all municipalities and cities in Serbia. The implementation of this project can be attended exclusively by domestic construction companies with appropriate experience, which have appropriate references and hire or can employ a significant number of workers. In realising this project, domestic building materials must be used, up to 70% of materials produced in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government will make the terms and conditions of funding for each individual project closer by a special act and will in particular establish the lowest, or maximum price at which these projects will be developed, especially in the housing sector. What are the projects that will be implemented thanks to this law and thanks to the package of measures that the Government is preparing under this law? It is, above all, building and rebuilding, i.e. adaptation and reconstruction of schools and kindergartens, hospitals and other health institutions, housing, highways and state roads, sports facilities, facilities for the purpose of performing activities in the field of culture, as well as other facilities of public importance. The essence of the public procurement procedure to be implemented when it comes to this law is that the global economic crisis is recognised as several other factors identified by the Public Procurement Act as factors which determine absolute urgency in the decision-making process on public procurement. We will apply the negotiation process, and for the selection of the designer, the performer of technical control, the contractor, the expert supervisor, as well as the performer of the technical examination, i.e. for the purpose of project financing for the construction of the facility. Contractors, which are cities, municipalities and the Republic of Serbia, are obliged to direct a call to domestic companies that meet the criteria set by the government. These criteria will be made so that most domestic companies that have employed capacities in the last few years, employed people, purchased construction equipment and had decent references to perform works, can be users of this assistance and can be engaged in the construction of these facilities. Also, local self-government will be obliged to, if they want to use these funds, urgently issue local building permits, and we have put in place a mechanism that says that, in case it is not possible to get to the permits quickly, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning can issue permits for buildings that are built in accordance with this law. As far as the dynamics of the application of this law are concerned, our goal is to get the builders to the sites as soon as possible, to identify and detect projects that will be made and to collect the money that we have collected into a fund as soon as possible. The law is passed by emergency procedure. The entry into force of this law is the next day from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". So it's theoretically possible that we already have this law in force next week and it's theoretically possible that we have the first construction works to be carried out thanks to this law in the next month. The provisions of this law can also apply to projects that have already begun. The goal is that everything that started under the previous laws, which is probably stuck somewhere in the Public Procurement Commission, to protect the rights of the bidder, which is still standing for some reason, is to be decommissioned and to start construction work as soon as possible. So, the expected effects of this law are to employ construction capacity, to increase investment in construction, to increase the number of construction workers and to make the construction industry, as an engine of economic growth and employment, do its part in the overall fight and government and our economy against the global economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I expect, of course, a very positive and constructive debate. As always, we are ready to discuss both your amendments and those who can significantly correct the law and contribute to the achievement of these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42549	Thank you. Let me just inform you that the DSS parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, will be represented at this point by Milan Lapcevic and the SRS parliamentary group Dragan Stevanovic. Among the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, the word first wants Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42550	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dulic, I would first like to say that this is the government's first reaction to the crisis in which the country has been in place for two years. That's what's good. What's wrong? Anything but that. It's bad that Mr. Cvetkovic isn't here, it's bad that you're alone here, Mr. Dulic, with more than questionable credibility, that you've offered us one scandalous law and that we're now talking about this law by emergency procedure in the atmosphere which is unworthy of the first topic we're talking about, these builders, carpenters, carpenters, moguls, all those you've listed, and then us as serious people. Mr Dulic, I would like to ask you what happened to the working group formed by Prime Minister Cvetkovic's decision on 28 May 2010 and which was to work on preparing this law? Belgrade's representative has not been invited to any meetings of the group, and according to the information we have, she has never actually met formally. The second question - why is there no public debate about this law if it is such an important topic? If you've waited two years to hear about the construction industry being hit, if you didn't want to hear from those of us who told you about it, why is there no public debate left now? During this public debate, you might be able to hear what was required to tell you someone in the cabinet or in the government, that this law re-infringes the legal order of our country and that at the same time this law, just like the Law on Planning and Construction, which we talked about a year ago, is a law that will cause more damage than benefits, although ambition is absolutely justified - to help the construction industry. What is paradoxical is, in fact, the fact that you from a period of agreed economy, which was established through ad hoc projects of various ministries, which were paid the price of a broad coalition, are introducing us into a phase of the command economy. You are not bound by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we have worked so hard to get him into effect as soon as possible. You are not bound by free trade agreements between the Central and Eastern European countries. You are not bound by the Public Procurement Act, and when you talk about the rights defined in this country, you treat those rights as obstacles to the realisation of certain businesses, so here in the discussion you tell us that the realisation of the business will no longer suffer from various consumer protection commissions, nor will it be slowed by mechanisms of established procurement procedures. What is it we have to say here openly, Mr. Dulic? If we needed you here as a minister, but first of all with an initiative that would change the bad Law on Planning and Construction. It's not just the result of your initiative now. You, being part of the government, are just the first line of one wrong policy to destroy this country. I'm talking about economic policy, the one you now translate from the agreed economy into a command economy. Where did you get the idea that this law should give the government those rights that Milosevic did not take in 1996, when he took away property from local self-government? Last year, we passed a Law on Planning and Construction, which very precisely defines deadlines and sanctions for local administration unless it acts in accordance with the law. Instead, because it is impossible to implement such a law, because it is beyond any legal order, you will become, as a minister and as a government, the only counter that will depend on the fate of anyone who deals with the construction industry in the country. Let's get back to square one. We entered this law to help the construction industry. Did we ask the construction industry what kind of help she needed? You're absolutely right when you talk about builders, carpenters, 200,000 people who are employed here. Five hundred companies went down last year. But let's see if someone has asked them why they pay such a high price and whether the high price in Serbia is solely due to the disturbances in international financial markets or whether these disorders have made all those illogicalities that exist within Serbia itself. It has nothing to do with the loss of the Lyman Brothers with the fact that the price of a square metre in Dubai has dropped 70% and has increased by 10% in Belgrade. It has nothing to do with a crisis that began two years ago with the fact that we have a deficit of 200,000 apartments in this town. This, at last, has no touch points with your ambition to pass the regulatory plan, the spatial plan, the general urban plan, the detailed urban plan, make the "Dulville" on Voždovac. If we have to, let's talk about it, but then we have to say -- no more public procurement laws, we suspend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we don't want to go to the EU because we don't have the power to do something like that, now we're going to operate here on other principles. And then it's a clear system that we disagree with, but it's clear. We were extremely well-intentioned. Two years ago, we proposed to the government a package of measures that the state must counter with the negative effects of disturbances on international financial markets. In part, these measures were related to the construction industry. The main problem, Mr. Dulic, is the fact that you are bypassing the only topic you are responsible for as Ministry and as Government, which is competition policy. You can't, Mr. Dulic, be a project funder in Serbia, you don't have the money to do that. You're talking about schools that aren't painted, hospitals that are devastated, roads that have been destroyed, bridges that are missing. Well, it's all missing because we don't have the money. Where's the money today? They're not here today either, and you and I know it. If Belgrade, which is fixed by 90% of the construction industry, is unable to finance the start of projects (the casa of the Directorate is completely empty, 60m euros we took a loan, seven days ago voted on by the City Assembly), how will there be money for those projects we talk about, which we don't really know anything about? We're halfway through the construction season. This law is valid until the end of next year. These projects should be designed to process, to start construction. Mr. Dulic, that's too bad a story. Let's get back to the point and ask the question - who should do what here? Who, as your authorities, should help you not to be a hostage to pulsism and demagogy? Who's supposed to say "you're right" even when most people disagree? Sixteen versions of the Law on Planning and Construction passed a public debate. They weren't all yours. At one point, you did the same thing. You've passed that law. It was, first of all, a sign of a political turn of government itself. This law has introduced us into a phase where the government may have done what the public expected it to do, but the public always has expectations that do not follow the damages that these expectations follow. So today everyone in Serbia is for a higher salary, but not everyone in Serbia is for NATO. Everyone in Serbia is for export, but not everyone in Serbia is to change their policy towards countries in the region. That's where we need one responsible policy, Mr. Dulic. The subject of competitiveness. We have done nothing to improve competitiveness in this country, and we have done much to make the climate worse, so the investment climate in Serbia is a fair Chernobyl atmosphere. Invest in Chernobyl or Belgrade, today is the same. That's what investors tell us, the ones you run away from, Mr. Dulic. You're saying the state is a serious investor. We don't think so. Because we're talking about crashed roads, broken bridges, devastated hospitals, schools, 200,000 apartments of deficits. It's not a good country investor. The state has nothing to look for in business. We need a state to create circumstances in which someone, in accordance with their own procedures, will benefit or be sanctioned for the damage he creates. And that's what we expected of you. The three large privatisation processes were practically accompanied by Serbia's transition -- privatisation of the housing fund, privatisation in the economy and privatisation of land. One ended very effectively. It's a privatization of a housing fund. He wasn't commercial. The second process, privatisation in the economy, takes place with a lot of problems, because it requires those effects that we previously did not seek in the first privatisation process, which are primarily commercial. We need to translate the economy from a phase that is incapable of creating something in a phase that is capable of creating it. She's incapacitated because she was state-run, commanding. We should translate it into a phase in which it will be an expression of private initiatives, domestic and successful. But unfortunately, they mostly come from space outside our country and now you're driving them through this law. That's our basic problem. The third question is the Law on Planning and Construction and the damages resulting from this. How much longer will it take before you change the regulation you're talking about? Paradoxical examples. A hectare of land in New Belgrade estimated the tax administration to be six and a half million euros, Mr. Dulic. The Herods was sold for a billion and five hundred million. There is no investor on the planet who will come and invest his money in Belgrade today. There is no citizen, a Belgrade citizen, who can buy an apartment at that price. That's how we get to this law. The government gives money they don't have. The government is in control, and she's incapable of doing it, because she's never been able to do anything like that before. The government is destroying the legal order, as it has often done so far and confrontations us with Europe and the environment. And what happens if this law is answered by other countries around us by similar laws? Can we help the domestic economy? We can, but not like this. Can we cut the building land fees? Can we reduce public spending in the country? Can we be fair about freezing wages and pensions? We suggested it in 2008. At that time, the euro was 75-76 dinars, today it's 105. It's not all your responsibility, but it all brings us together, Mr. Dulic, to the paradox. One very difficult situation is solved by a law that has five or six members, which is an imaginary working group of rules for the last month past any public. The law by emergency procedure comes to the Assembly, but then we face the following facts - the government will decide something, but there are no deadlines for the government to decide. Why aren't the deadlines set? Does this law put out of force the Public Procurement Act? We've got some work to do, and we don't have other jobs. That's impossible. We've written a few amendments, we suggest you adopt them. It is the first amendment to delete a member of the law excluding public procurement. If there's anything controversial about public procurement, let's talk about it. If some rights are misused (and these are facts), if unwarranted complaints are made to slow things down, let's see how we can solve it. But don't make your government a counter that everyone in this country will depend on, and that's what this law looks like. Let's see what that looks like in realisation. Ninety per cent of the construction industry is related to Belgrade. What project does Belgrade run for government and not so far? There aren't any of those projects. You say the state will be an investor. We suggest you create an atmosphere in which private investors will appear. While there were private investors, the construction industry was developing. You, as Government, cannot focus your policy on building builders, carpenters, all those you've talked about, and erase those who are actually the precondition of existence and builders and carpenters and moths and all that you've listed. And these are investors, they're "of the brother-in-law" companies. Is the "of brother-in-law" company domestic or not? It's not homework. Well, 90% of Serbia's construction companies are owned by the "Of Shore" company because it's the only way they're financed, because the National Bank is bringing them into a position they can't function from. If they're taking credit, they're charged with 40 percent of the deposits in the National Bank. If they take a loan from the central bank abroad, they have no obligation of that kind. That's why we have so many offshore companies. Who's going to build on these projects? The prosecutions are full of objections to several companies that exist in Serbia and do all the jobs. In Belgrade, the general place is the story of who is the candidate for Serbia's Polancec. We don't want to live in such a country. Let us help you. A month ago we sent you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction, both for you and for everyone else. We have sent you a proposal for a measure that you need to adopt to make Belgrade more effective. We asked for Belgrade to be allowed to run Kastastar. He used to do it. There's no way he could do it today. You are centralizing power within your ministry, and there are no mechanisms within the ministry that will effectively respond to something like that. It's your fault again for Nuba Invest. You'll be guilty of someone giving a car-road concession, and it's impossible to make a highway within such short notice. You will be guilty of corridor 11, which does not exist in the plans but is referred to by Minister Mrkonjic. You will have to answer for the ridiculous announcements of master-plans and 20 billion euros Serbia will spend over the next 10 years, and we have so much to pay back because we owe so much. So we suggest that you withdraw this law immediately from the procedure, sit down and talk to those you have to talk to, these are your coalition partners, respect the interests of the public you are now talking about, it's the construction industry, and then, through the institutions that exist in this country, implement these laws so that they are in line with the legal order. Any tender you shut down will be a minus and an obstacle to the process of European integration of our country. Look at what it looks like, you rule out the possibility of protecting someone's right and you say that a claim to protect someone's rights does not delay the realisation of the contract. And what if the contract is realised and the court confirms that someone was right? Then someone will say – that is what Minister Dulic is responsible for. I don't think that's the case. It's Mirko Cvetkovic for me and he needs to come here. The country's prime minister, who experienced being the third news in the day he went and opened a Serbian exhibition in Shanghai. The first news is a crime in Novi Sad, the second news is some oil smugglers in the Danube, and the third news -- Mirko Cvetkovic in Shanghai opens a Serbian exhibition. What kind of country is that, and what kind of politics is that? This is where the whole government needs to sit. And Minister Dinkic, who spent half a billion in Bora, and the President of the Republic, who spent the second half of Bora, should appear, and all those who are now paved in Serbia and we do not have for a shovel of asphalt, let's see how we get out of the kala in which we are, which is due largely to the fact that we can't use those funds that we used in the previous 7-8 years of transition. There are many objections to the law itself, not to enter those 6-7 members. The point is that you have done something other than any consultation with those you address. I don't want to mention at all who the proposed members of this task force are, I don't think it's fair to mention these several companies right now. They may be consulted, I don't know, but there's no business chamber, no consulting institutions that exist in our country. They need to deal with it. They, together with you, need to go to Parliament and say, "This is a bill, something like this has to be done." How do other countries do that? They're raising their competitiveness. You need to put pressure on the building land charges, put pressure on them to get back to local self-government so they can do something about it. It's impossible, Mr. Dulic, what you suggested, to issue local permits without prior confirmation of ownership, right? So, it's not a process initiated, it's a property certificate. It's now a debate that doesn't make much sense in this way, but we really wanted to help here in Belgrade. We asked for a reform of the U.S. Department of Urbanism. We didn't bring a man from the Kings to Belgrade, the DS did, who doesn't get along in those institutions and who actually works by writing some resignations every day. You can't do it yourself. ZIG doesn't have the money to pay back the debts of the Electro-Employment. He doesn't have the money to pay his employees. Companies that have been pillars of the country's economic development, our investors, if they exist in Serbia, are already linked to some projects that have been blocked. They need to be helped to reactivate these projects. It's much more useful than switching weights to local self-governments, which now need to organize projects and which themselves are not capable of something like that. In this debate, obviously, no one else wants to participate. We have a lot to say, because our goal is an effective ministry that you run, a leader in the government. Exactly what you said, the exact figures you've listed, is exactly how important it is that they go to the construction industry. And it's not the construction industry that's in trouble because of you, but you're all alone here. Return that law and help us bring in a better one, bring in a system of measures that will make your policy effective. You can't do it by an isolated move. There is no energy that can turn this situation from an absolute minus to a complete plus. What about tax policy? What about the compensation regime for building land? What about the obligations these companies have because they're over-indebted? What about the state that owes many? The biggest debtor is the state. Who's going to give a loan needed, say, to modernise the technology that these companies have? No bank. The state can't do that. Let me just mention a few amendments. We suggest, first of all, that you distance yourself from the idea of completely destroying the country's legal order by assuming on yourself the competences of local self-government, with this general finding that, if something is not done by the local administration, the Ministry will do so. If he doesn't, he has to answer. That's the law. You have the right to be inspected. Please file a report. You filed a complaint with the Leader. If the charges don't work, the court doesn't feel right, we've made a mistake in judicial reform. But we have to do it. Otherwise, if we go this way, you're going to issue permits, you're going to define criteria, you're going to give money you don't have, you're going to decide which companies are and which companies they can do and which ones they can't, and you're going to be the only culprit. What's the problem? The problem is that this damage, which is thus created, exceeds the dimensions of any individual. It doesn't mean anything to us that one day someone will say it's a mistake, I really didn't know. It is much more important to us that this law was signed by the government, that this law is the result of the government's ambition to take concrete measures to counter the negative effects of the crisis that we are in... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And it's especially important for us to move the government's ambition from agreement to command economy. Because that's the way we go back to the late '80s, and that's what we shouldn't be doing anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42551	Thank you. Mr. Dolliche, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42552	Thank you. I'll get started right away. I think the debate is supposed to look like this, because this is something that's unusual. This law is not a law that would be in front of the MPs if we didn't live in a difficult time and not have a catastrophic economic crisis happening around us. It is true that this law allows for a kind of state protectionism and favours domestic enterprises. And it is true that we have consciously accepted both the responsibility and the risks of thinking first of all about our workers this time. We think about our businesses and our workers, as in the same way, today in the EU every country has found a way to help its workers. It's the first postulate. For years back we tried to build an economy that would mean free market access to everyone, we were the country that went further in implementing its obligations from Cefta, we were the country that absolutely respected the removal of all customs and non-tariff barriers and we were the country where every bidder, domestic or foreign, had the same treatment. We are talking about the fact that the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers in 95% of the cases has shown that the objections which went towards it have not been established. Today we're talking, for example, about what you called "Dulville," and I'd say "Casary Four." July' or "Stepa Stepanović", where it is to be built under very favourable conditions 5.130 apartments, a whole procurement procedure, which began from the fact that geomech was to be done, stopped at the Commission for the protection of the rights of the bidder because one firm, which has absolutely no name or last name, no licensed engineers for the job, no equipment for the performance of the job, submitted a request for the protection of the rights of the bidder to the Commission, then did not show up for debate, but delayed the whole procedure for two months. With this dynamic, this site will begin to work early next year. We can't let that happen. It's impossible to let everything be delayed because, and you know it very well, there is so-called in this country. "Tender Basters", which exist only because companies that are involved in public procurement procedures would blackmail that, if they submit any objections to the Commission for the protection of the rights of the bidder, it would postpone the job for two, three or four months, and they would live to be paid by someone not to file applications. So we live, among other things, in a society where such things happen. At no time did this law put out of force the Public Procurement Act. No, the Law on Public Procurement still applies, we just made it possible for the situation in which the building is present to be recognised as one of the situations in which, under the Public Procurement Act, it is possible to directly hit and speed up the public procurement process. It says nicely in the Public Procurement Act that when, for example, a slide or a flood occurs or an extraordinary circumstance occurs, you can make public procurement according to an accelerated procedure. That's what the Public Procurement Act says. But no one could recognize that there was going to be a global economic crisis that would leave such a disastrous consequence. Therefore, this law recognised the accelerated procedure, in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement for Construction Enterprises. As for the question of what the task force is doing, I think I'm the minister who's probably met most often in the last 20 years with the representatives of the construction industry. We meet almost once a week. They have a variety of demands. Construction operations and the construction industry today have a huge number of problems. Most of their problems are about indifference. Our construction operation was dimensioned during which several million squares were built in Serbia. It was 2006, 2007, 2008, when it was a big investment cycle, when banks almost chased construction companies into project financing, when there was a really good wave of real estate purchase. At that time, the construction industry that employed workers, purchased equipment, was believed to be a trend and would be the need that existed at that time in relation to demand, as far as the construction market is concerned. Unfortunately, there's been a crisis. We today have most of the construction companies that are over-indebted, which have loans to banks, which have huge amounts of construction equipment that stands for them because there is absolutely no demand at this time for new housing squares or for business squares. We also have a problem with banks, which are very difficult to finance different types of projects, especially project financing, and we have citizens who are objectively scared about the consequences of this crisis and very difficult to decide to enter housing loans. At this point, we have hundreds of thousands, if not millions of squares of business and housing, both in Belgrade and in other cities, that sound empty. So there's simply no demand for construction jobs. When there is no demand for construction jobs and there is no bank, no investor, no one who can run the construction sector, the only one who can do it is the state. Tell me who else can do it. It's true that the state doesn't have all that money in the crowd right now, you know very well what the situation is in the budget, but the state can now, by some kind of its name and its guarantee, unite that money with the money that banks have. As you well know, banks are full of money, but they're looking for safe projects to invest in. The only way for us to start the construction sector at this point is for the state as an investor, along with local self-government, to use bank funds and to get into construction works that, unfortunately, have not been able to be financed, especially in the past decades, because of the situation we've been in. It's the only way we can start the construction industry. If you have a better way, say so. How can a construction industry be launched, when all those investors you're talking about, Mr. Jovanovic, in Serbia, simply don't exist? They're in the same situation as the entire economy. All investors, especially those you've understood (perhaps you haven't directly mentioned them, but we know what this is about), at this point they don't have any money. And they're in charge, and they have problems with banks, etc. According to some of the thesis you mentioned, I recognize exactly what people are about, but believe me, they're all in the same situation. So the only way to start the construction industry, I repeat, is that the state, with local self-government, is to be an investor and to launch bank funds, because banks will give money to state projects. So we need a mass venture of state projects, a kind of public work where we try to gather as many construction workers as possible and start working. That's what we need and that's the only way we can save this sector from a certain collapse. Now that you mention the Law on Planning and Construction, I'll tell you in public. You've sent out motions for amendments and additions to the law. Most of these proposals make sense and we can talk about it. We've opened a public debate over some of the things that can change. Serbia is a country where it is impossible to write a law that will apply in the territory of the whole country and in all municipalities because you have a terrible difference between the situation in the administration, documentation, paperwork, plans, disaster from the north to the south and from the east to the west. You have to come up with a law that should be measured against the best or, as it turns out, should be measured against the worst. What we managed to do thanks to the Law on Planning and Construction, and that's what encourages me, is that 86% of municipalities are currently in the process of developing spatial plans and general regulation plans. That's fantastic progress. We will have Serbia next year, which will finally be covered, for the first time in its history, all the spatial plans and all the regulatory plans. And in each part of Serbia, you will have accurate knowledge of where and what can be built, which is the ground floor, which is the occupation of the surface, what is access to infrastructure, etc. It's a huge step and it will pass this law. But when we talk about changes and additions to this law, I have to say that one segment of your proposal cannot be accepted, which is a matter of conversion. The conversion will have to be paid. I agree that the regulation that has been adopted has brought direct implementation problems. This regulation is written with a good desire for our local self-government and our tax authorities to show their full capacity and try to reach what is called the real market value of building land. It turns out that's not possible. A second regulation will finally be adopted at the cabinet's session Thursday, which will allow a completely different way for the job to be completed. But the job will have to be done and the people who bought the companies in bankruptcy or privatisation, who didn't invest in them and only bought them because they thought they'd come up with cheap construction land, will have to pay the difference between the value of that land today and what they invested. That won't change. So, of all the things that you say can change, there are many and practical things that will contribute to a better law, we'll change that, but we can't change what is the basic postulate, and that's the question of conversion. And I'm sure I'll have to disappoint you on that. Because, basically, most of your proposals are just going towards letting go of that conversion, to convert everything without compensation, and now it's going to go its own way, because, God, it's not that kind of time. I'm sorry, that's the kind of time. We will enable anyone who is obliged to pay under correct conditions, to pay for several annual wars, to negotiate with the municipality in the sense that it can be replaced by an adequate price of squares of business space and apartments that the municipality needs, to pay in adequate land, etc. So we're going to allow different ways and models that these people don't have to take money out of their pockets right now, because nobody's got money today, to pay for it, and to get this job done. But this job will have to end and, unfortunately, it will have to end by someone paying. That's the attitude this government has and believe me, it's impossible for that segment to change. When we talk about the destruction of the legal order and responsibility, as I said earlier, I repeat, the Public Procurement Act has not been violated. We only recognized this situation as an emergency and put that, as one of the segments of the Public Procurement Act, which recognises the accelerated procedure, can be applied in these situations. When we talk about the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers, it will continue to do its job, but the previous law, or the Law on Public Procurement, has provided for such long procedures when someone enters a complaint, that it would not be possible to start these works that we assumed here today would be done in the next few months, if not a year, because our system is working that way. So, the system of protection of the rights of the bidder functions terribly slowly, and we cannot get out of one galaxy waiting for legal decisions that lasts for several months. We need an emergency reaction today, and we're doing everything in that direction right now. It's true, you said, all the people you mentioned here were also the creators of the law. We haven't had time for public debates, we haven't had time to get into some kind of broad consultation. At this point, rights and the only consultation were precisely with the representatives of the construction sector. If someone tells you they're not consulted, I'm sure they're not speaking the truth, because I personally talked to all the appropriate representatives of the construction industry, and the high-building and low-building and construction producers, almost daily. We can't meet them to be intercessors between them and the banks. We can't, unfortunately, help them improve their liquidity. What we can do is give them jobs and we'll do it. That's exactly what this law is for. Your amendments will be carefully studied. Everyone who leads to a better law will certainly accept, but I must tell you that this law must be the answer of this government to the situation in which the construction sector is located and we are confident that we are doing the right thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42553	Thank you. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Replica. ) You cannot get the word now, the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, are now speaking. You'll get your word later. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42554	Here on the agenda is...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42555	Please excuse me. I'm sorry, there were some misunderstandings. There's a basis for replication, I didn't realize that... Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42556	Mr. Dulic, we didn't understand each other at all. Our MP group absolutely wants to help the construction industry, but we're telling you that this isn't help. This is just making things harder for the construction industry. So, absolutely, yes, but how did you choose the construction industry, not agriculture? Where is the Minister of Economy now in all this? Where's the Treasury in all this? Where's our government, so we can talk about a comprehensive approach? It's not the construction industry in the problem that they started doing something wrong, but that they are affected by circumstances and conditions that they cannot answer for themselves, which is the general economic situation in the country. When we talk about the law, then we're talking about a law that needs to provide answers to all the topics that you've listed here. Excuse me, if anyone abuses rights... Here in the Assembly, when an MP abuses his rights, he is punished. We expect the state to be able to form institutions and clear criteria. There's no one who can answer the tender to blackmail someone else. If he does that, he has to answer for it. And if he doesn't answer, then he's just using an opportunity in the country that fits the situation she created herself and doesn't change. You're wrong when you say you don't put out the law on public procurement. This is what puts her out of control in the building. So in the only sector in which the state appears with the ambition to solve something, it puts out the law on public procurement. Tomorrow the Minister of Agriculture will appear and say – we will no longer buy the fertilizer by tender procedures, but we will agree with someone, there are justifiable reasons for such a thing. Then it's the destruction of the legal order. As for the law, once again – don't, Mr. Dulic, build government policy on the basis of justice. Don't do that. Be an effective government, a government that delivers results. In justice, you will do nothing good for this country. Justice doesn't mean anything to people at the end of the month unless they have paid. Release justice to Patriarch Irine, release it to the Mufti, release it to the bishop, leave it to the NGO, and for the Government – law, order, clear plans and efficiency. I also want you to be successful in your intention, say, billing land conversions. I don't mind. We were telling you about ways to do it a year ago. We said the IRS couldn't determine the market price. Now you're facing it too. We'll see if the second model you're proposing is successful. But remember one thing: He who has sold can no later alter the rules, for then he is a fraud and no one else believes anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42557	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42558	First of all, I must commend the government's intention to change the strategy and that the subsidisation policy and soft credits no longer works by regulations but by law. In that sense, Mr. Dulic, I can say that this is a shift forward, regardless of what I have a number of objections to a law that has only eight members and where much remains for the government to prescribe later, indeed without a deadline, but every beginning is commendable. Whether the law announced by Mr Dinkic as his own project when it comes to valorizing successes deserves his absence today, and for you to be there and answer our questions, it is not about us opposition MPs. That's what you should talk about in the government. You probably have a good division of business, where you got, I'm afraid, to do the hard part today. I must confess, first of all, that the objectives laid down in Article 2 of this Law have nothing to object to. To overcome the negative effects of the crisis, to encourage the development and employment of domestic enterprises, to encourage the development of all those involved in building material production, to maintain employment levels, to encourage economic development – it is not controversial. But it is disputed that, as you said, for example, in the debate, you did not put it into law. You said it wasn't the building industry of an investor, and I'm going to translate it a little bit more Serbian and say, in a lot of cases, the construction industry, or construction industry, is today a synonym for money laundering, where there's another dinar on one invested, and where in the light of those who determine the locations, they sell them and the purposes of the privileged, give them over-the-line permits and make it possible to build, it's really not the construction industry. These are investors who have tarnished the reputation of those who we actually consider the construction industry. Why didn't you put in one of these members here what does that really mean in the construction industry? We should have had no problem interpreting who it refers to and what it means and who's going to use it. What do I have to object to this law? Have your colleagues in the government considered that this assembly should first report on the effects already adopted and years of implementing regulations in terms of employment and the realisation of good intentions? Just to mention that very interesting Dinkic's regulation, under which he also signed guarantees for investing foreign investors in these areas, where subsidies are obtained for each new job if investors who invest 50m euros, who invest 200m euros, where the regulations are drawn for those that we call "undecently rich" today, because that type of investment could not have the kind of investment that we are looking for today and we call it "domestic investor", not in an ugly and peorative sense, but investors in the construction industry, for example, who have money that is not owed to banks, and you mentioned it here as "domestic and indeed is controversial. I am talking about that the regulation is not a good way, because it allows for the abuse of the budget that we are all filling, and then, behind the curtain, money is shared by ministers and those who are the unnamed executive directors of the quasi-bank without the consent of the National Bank, and these are ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you are already trying to change the practice, which is necessary, and that you are sharing money with a law that, at the very least, would have to prescribe criteria for access, could one of your colleagues or you personally explain to me what this means that these project competitions will be attended by construction companies that employ a significant number of workers? Can someone quantify that? Because "significant" is an attribute, something descriptive is given, and here we're talking about specific numbers, we're talking about subsidies, privileged conditions, and people's employment, so that someone's hiring a significant number of people, believe me, doesn't mean anything. Or, even in the next sentence, they have the right experience and technological capacity to employ a significant number of workers. What's that significant number? Twenty, fifty, hundred, two hundred, one thousand? It would really be necessary to make at least some frameworks, if we knew who this law would apply to. What you wrote in Article 3, in my opinion very controversially, - that according to this law the government appears as an investor and on a proposal from the competent ministries can finance some projects - it can only work for the Republic of Serbia, but not for local self-government and the province. Mr. Dulic, the Constitution is not a beautifully reprehensible blue book that we all carry along with the Rules of Procedure and the law that is on the agenda. The constitutional right of local self-government and the province to decide where and how to invest, what their priorities are and how to finance, partly alone or fully, or to find co-investors, cannot be justly centralised to be decided by the Government, no matter how much you step in, because the Constitution forbids it. Next, you wrote that we're helping domestic production. Do you really believe that under "domestic production" we mean companies whose headquarters is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? They're not synonyms. So, on the one hand, you're saying that we're funding only domestic producers, which I don't think is good at the moment when we're all talking and some of us really think that Europe should be created first in Serbia, not by drilling a boat to go to Europe, not by illegal and unconstitutional, but by non-European standards, by making it impossible for others to participate here, but only on paper. In practice, a truly foreign company, and only one man comes here and creates a state-based company, can be called a participant in domestic legal traffic. You can't slow it down for me. When I make a mistake, I make a lapsus and I say'side banks', they're not foreign, they're domestic participants on this market, and their queens are abroad and what you say, as you say, is interested in whether the countries they come from are helping their workers, and here you're right, it's not relevant to compete for these projects. And what does practice say? We all have experience of showing up some big sound "this" with references or not telling political side-to-side relationships to get a job, and then, in fact, it hires those small ones, those who are not connected to a job, who are not paid contributions, etc. And you can't tell me that you don't know that behind these good intentions and undeniable goals is not the right path without obstacles to the domestic construction industry really getting a boost, keeping the existing number of employees or hiring new ones. I'm sure you know there's a series of obstacles here that won't allow the rights to reach the funds. The closer the government prescribes the conditions and means of funding for each individual project, the more I cannot dispute. According to the Constitution, according to good rules of law, the government is an executive body and has the right to do so. But I would ask you, right now in the principle debate, to add the SNS amendment to this position of Article 3. We expect you to add in this position - but according to the good experiences of international practice, when we receive international assistance, loans, to finance such projects. And it is not only nice to say how it is done in the world and in line with international experiences, that is, how we implement projects funded by international loans. This means, when you hire someone on this project and you assign him a job to work, that you allow him to get his first advance from you and start working, and that after the first advance, he delivers the final situations for which your project implementation unit (so called in international projects) is going to check whether what you gave money as a government is really done and for what you are obliged to follow up on purpose control. If you are already a quasibank, you must act as a bank, that is to say to every citizen of Serbia, who has to be an individual state auditor, report that you are having a hard and hard-charged budget not to spend lightly, not controlling where it is going, but to allow citizens to see through that implementation unit, and to teach those who receive money to spend it where they are intended. What else are we going to make possible? We will never let the roads that worked for the state happen again, it doesn't matter whether in some campaigns, it doesn't matter how much money came next to it, and how much in the asphalt, but it's important that we don't face the fact that the state orders, acts like a serious investor, and then doesn't pay those who work for it, introduce these and such enterprises, very successful or a large number of employees, in what's written in the law on bankruptcy, in a state of indifference, where they can, by art. 151-154. The bankruptcy law, when the state decides to like machines, land, quarry or whatever, to open and close bankruptcy in one day and moment if no one pays an advance for such a pre-departure procedure and to become the owner of the entire property that such an undertaking has. I therefore insist that the selection of projects and funding go in line with good international practice, so that those who see the hope of doing business with the state will not tomorrow be those who will see the name of their company on the bankruptcy court’s advertising board where they remain without property and where the state has left a number of unresolved issues – who answers until the company is deleted from legal traffic, what happens to workers, with their outstanding internship, etc. Always a path paved by good intentions leads to hell. So, when you pay an advance to organise this production, every next situation has to be controlled, to the end, because the state must not only get the right from the MPs in the Serbian Parliament to share money, but also be responsible for the deliberate control of the funds that will be shared. Article 4 (members talking about this law) It's very interesting to me, where you say you're going to build schools and kindergartens, hospitals, apartments, highways, sports facilities... Would any well-intentioned man mind if he reads the list here from one to seven? No, no one. But the question is -- and where are we going to build schools if we agree to this very unusual rationalisation, where are we reducing the number of departments due to the growing number of students, especially in those parts of Serbia that we call the lowest in terms of regional development, where is the lowest growth rate in terms of development? We're talking about hospitals and other health institutions, and we're talking about rationalization where there's only ten minutes for a doctor to take him in, talk to him, prescribe a cure, and all the emergencies that happen. For which and what hospitals? These days, we're hearing about a prominent Turkish facility called Gorky Badem, which is what the hospital is called, where our patients are going to operate because there's no room for us. And the very building of a monument of your intentions to build hospitals where the doctor doesn't have time to devote himself to the patient should be the purpose we agree on? There's a discrepancy and that's the problem. You say we build sports facilities. And with what salary and where is it earned (and this is not demagogy, this is a practical question) will some parent be able to send their child to the pool and to practice in a sports facility or hall that you build? There's a lot of such monuments. By what means will local self-government from scarcely transferred transfer funds be able to maintain such sports facilities as well? You are obliged, Mr. Dulic, to have the only one present here today as a government, looking at what was and what was meant to be, to consider whether there would be anyone here to go to these sports facilities. Whether highways and other state roads to build should be built only by us, or by joining Western Europe and the East, we should animate those who will carry their goods through these roads in this liberalised economy, fully open to that relationship, for example. Munich-Istanbul? Should someone have helped us and animated some investors who would benefit, not because they love us, but because it is their interest to cross paths through this territory, or in these most difficult times of crisis, which we have overlooked and not recognised until yesterday, to justify ourselves with the objectives of Article 2 and the projects of Article 4 and to say – give us permission to invest? Mr. Dullich, you're a young man. You know what it's called in my day to produce sports facilities, hospitals where people can't heal because they don't have money, what do you call kindergartens for which you can't pay a monthly fee? Production for supplies. So building objects that won't have anyone to use, it's called stock production, which is exceeded because society and state, the general sense of the word, has no means to waste them on what isn't used. Are you witnesses when you go into the store, into the furniture store, so look at some piece, it might be some of the simplest table, which costs seven thousand, there are those, and they say, 'No, it's just an exhibit; if you're a real customer, we'll order for you', because nobody has money to keep the goods in stock today? The time of confrontation, that goods exist and can be carried immediately and paid later is behind us, because the resources in the world are exhausted to produce what there are no customers for. With this story I come up with your explanation in which you say what is the basic problem – we will build apartments, but we have a lack of demand in the private sector. The truth is, Mr. Dulic, we have a lack of demand in the private housing sector and what the construction industry needs to do, but not because people aren't interested in living alone or not living for three generations in a 60-square apartment. No, but because people don't work and because you don't listen and you don't hear when we tell you – the first goal of the National Bank, as the Supreme Institutions, must be to create conditions for employment and economic development and progress. Because if people work and receive wages, they will have where and where to take credit and what to repay loans, housing, which is the only real and justifiable loans not only at this time of crisis, but in times of responsible people taking loans not for summers, not for weddings, not for schooling, which are justifiable reasons but not our practice, because it is necessary to provide as much guber as it allows and how philosophy determines that both the state and the individual can spend just as much as there is, but because we have to, talking about saving as the only real basis for development, to tell people the truth – can't live indefinitely on credit and can't possibly live on credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42559	Twenty minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42560	I'll continue to discuss in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42561	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42562	Just out of my mind to direct the debate, because I didn't get to say everything at first, and I'd like you to know what we did next to implement this law. It is true that sometimes laws are passed and that the government is obliged to bring in different types of sublegal acts that have long been prepared. In order for this law to be implemented as soon as possible, we have already entered into the making of these sublaws, and we are doing so together with the representatives of the construction industry. It is this commission, or working group mentioned by Mr Jovanovic that will meet on Thursday, when we will analyse their proposals to us and our proposals to those who will be criteria to determine the types of facilities to be done, on the one hand, and a list of companies that can work and do these kinds of projects. We tried to do something that's a statistical cross-section between construction firms today. Now I'm only reading you one draft, but let's see how serious we've been. We've classified these works on different types of construction work and we've started to create some kind of minimum criteria that a firm has to meet if it wants to work on an object. We've divided the objects, of course, by the size of the square. I'm talking about what's in my ministry's jurisdiction, it's housing, and each of the other ministries will (when we talk about hospitals, it's the Ministry of Health, for schools it's the Ministry of Education, for sport, the Ministry of Youth and Sports) to determine and create some kind of criteria that are objects to be done. For example, high-building facilities, a grossly developed building area of up to 800 square meters – companies that can participate must have a minimum of one skip or smaller crane, one truck of minimum 10 cubic metres, completed facilities in the last ten years of surfaces of up to 800 squares and 20 employees. So from 800 to 2,000 square meters – a number of machines, number of employees, etc. The elemental condition is that the company has existed and worked on the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the past three to five years. So we don't want anyone to come and start a company today and participate in these projects. We want to help that real construction sector that's been carrying out everything that's been a construction venture for the last three to five years. It's an idea. You can see from all this that you're doing this seriously. This is also true for electrical installations, electrical installations, waterworks, sewers, etc. It's going to be one serious rule, in which anyone who's worth something in the building will be able to identify. Those people who can't meet these conditions, I'm sure they'll find work in subcontraction, and I'm sure they will, for example. that mentioned "July 4th" or "Stepa Stepanovic". So we're talking about a 131 object, a ground floor plus six squares plus a attic, a total area of about 550,000 square meters. So we're talking about hiring a few thousand workers on one construction site. I am sure that several such sites, and I can tell you that in Belgrade we are preparing several other major locations, we have also prepared locations in agreement with the military, where Serbia's Building Directorate will take over the land for an adequate number of apartments in Chačka, Kralje, Užica, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. So, we're talking about that by the end of the year, thanks to this law, it's possible to open several huge construction sites where apartments will be built. Those apartments will be sold at subsidized prices. I think the prices we put into the regulation, in which we subsidise project financing, are very correct. In this way we will also create a kind of balance on the real estate market. By increasing the offer of cheap and quality apartments, we will, however, also, invest these investors, who have invested in the previous period and still do not want to lower prices, encourage them to lower prices and come up with something that will be a market value that will be significantly lower and that will be available to our citizens. All that you were saying was the dilemmas that we had and that led us when we wrote this law. We are sure that we are on a good path, and I ask you to accompany what will be the implementation of this law through sublegal acts and, most importantly, through the Ministry. When this law is passed, my responsibility will be reduced to housing. Each ministry will have the responsibility to implement projects within its jurisdiction. Schools will be built, funded, assisted and designed by the Ministry of Education, hospitals will work by the Ministry of Health, etc. Everyone will now have the opportunity to rebuild, rebuild, reconstruct objects that have failed for decades and for which there has been no money. Finally, speaking of money, I haven't been able to answer that, so far this project, following a question sent two weeks ago, has been reported by banks that have raised 180m euros worth of funds. What I do know is that this year we will be able to pump about 500m euros in housing. It's a huge amount of money, which banks will focus on in the construction sector. If we can only realize one part of this project, we will employ several tens of thousands of people, and that is what will be the final quality of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42563	Before I give my word to the next speakers, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, by discussing the item of the agenda that is currently under way. On the basis of the estimated time needed to discuss the agenda point, today's work should be completed between 19.00 and 20.00 hours, including, of course, time estimated for replicas and what is not strictly prescribed time allocated to parliamentary groups and for presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic has been registered in the electronic system. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42564	Thank you. It's not a replica, but it wouldn't be right if I didn't make a key remark in this part. It is unacceptable, Mr. Dulic, to suspend the Law on Public Procurement of Article 5, where you say that a direct negotiation procedure allows you, who are always talking about the advantages of the Public Procurement Act, about savings, literally yourself, as a Government, to exempt yourself from it, which, in fact, shows that the laws apply to citizens, but not to the Government, which prescribes them. It is a key objection to the law that you have brought into this procedure and I thank you for giving me the right to round up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42565	The speech is attended by MP Milan Lapcevic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42566	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, is ahead of us with a serious law, which the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to overcome the negative effects of the economic crisis in the area of the construction industry and the construction sector. At first glance, the intention is quite right and quite correct, but one legitimate question is asked, which is – since we are in the middle of 2010, where were we for the past two years? The global economic crisis began in early 2008 and already in mid-2008 it was known that it would hit the whole world, that it would reflect the quality of life in all countries, investment and work and the overall quality of life in all areas, well, of course, in the area of the construction industry. However, we have had the opportunity to listen to the end of 2008 of the country's president that the global economic crisis will not affect Serbia and that in this crisis lies the key to our country, to find ways to exploit the global economic crisis and improve its standard of living. The aim of this law is to launch Serbia's construction industry, which has obviously been in bad shape for recent years. The data on this is very clear. In the last two years, 50,000 people who have worked in the Serbian construction sector have lost their jobs, we heard today that 850 companies from this area, small and medium-sized enterprises, including large, shut down, the amount of investments has been halved, the number of construction permits issued in the past year is 50% lower than in 2008, and so on. So the data is very dreary and gives us a hard picture of the state of the construction industry in Serbia. Just a year ago in this House, there was a debate on the new Law on Planning and Construction, and we were given assurances from the competent minister at that time that the adoption of this new law would be significantly shortened, that the processes would be simplified, and that many investors who wanted to build anything in this country, that they would start any business, have the opportunity to do so in a simpler and faster way, and that the adoption of a new law would, in fact, help the entire construction industry and all investors to move forward and that those administrative obstacles that existed in the previous period due to the poor previous law would be exceeded, and the time to obtain permits and start construction would be much shorter. A year has passed since the law was passed, quite enough to analyse the effects of the application of the law. We had on several occasions analysis of both the Chamber of Commerce and the professional associations that the number of building permits issued was much smaller than the previous years. For example, the latest data was that over the past year 50% of the construction permits were issued, which clearly says that the law did not hit the target and did not affect the overcoming of the crisis in this sector. Last year, more than a year after the global economic crisis took place, the government adopted a regulation giving subsidies to purchase domestic goods, including construction material, which was very justified, to speed up the domestic construction industry and in general the industry and domestic demand, so that domestic businesses would work, and workers would keep at least the same level of jobs, so that they would not lose their jobs, without profits and go to the streets as many others. However, even in the light of this law, it is said that the effects of the measure were not sufficient and that it was necessary for the state to take measures to launch a demand for construction works by domestic companies, i.e. to launch a new construction cycle by providing favourable financing from domestic business banks. So, given that the crisis has hit the construction sector hard and that many companies have been shut down and many people are out of work, the state is now applying another measure, trying to launch and employ domestic construction operations with a larger volume of investments, and hence the construction material industry, which, again, I say, is indeed positive, and we have no objections there. There is only one key problem left, and this is who will finance these great works and from which sources will these works be paid, or what will this construction operation do? Article 4 of this law states that the government will establish projects for the construction of high-building and low-building projects financed under the law, and these projects can be the construction of schools and kindergartens, hospitals, apartments, highways, sports facilities, facilities for the purpose of carrying out activities in the field of culture and other objects of public importance. So, all of these facilities, which are, of course, necessary both for local self-governments and for the state as a whole, are justified and are probably something that can trigger the existing construction operation, but it raises a legitimate question – in these conditions of the economic crisis, where filling the budget is really dramaticly bad, where it can't cover even the basic, minimum costs it has for various budget users, the state will go into mass construction, as the minister said, and by not writing here which sources of funding, but it will likely take commercial loans from business banks and build, or reconstruct various public buildings that I mentioned earlier. So, again, we don't have real income sources, real financing in terms of tax and budget income creating surplus values, so we finance these facilities, we're going to continue to borrow loans and, on the one hand, employ the construction industry, work to keep people out of work or get new jobs, and on the other hand, the state will be in debt, so for some year, when these loans are due back, we're going to come to a dead end and we're practically in the middle of a complete collapse. The data that the state currently owes more than 150m euros to construction operations for works that, above all, private firms carried out for the state, or carried out projects financed by the state, is sufficient to indicate that something with this law is wrong. The decline in demand for construction works has not occurred because the state invests less, or slightly less invests this year or previous year compared to the previous year. The lack of work in construction operations and the construction industry is primarily about the lack of investment coming from businesses, from real investors, not from the state. So, above all, private capital, which, according to pre-election promises, was to land in this country and employ more than 200,000 people who had no business. Of course, it was pre-election promises back then, and of those promises, now it's clear to everyone, there's nothing. But there remains one difficult question – how will we replace such a lack of work if there is no private investment, whether domestic or foreign, and how does the state think that the lack of work in the sector, of these real investments, is replaced by state investments? We will come to a paradoxical situation that when the state determines a list of priority projects it will finance, whether projects at the level of local self-government or state level, it will go into, as said in Article 5, a negotiating process with similar firms, and these similar companies will be determined on the basis of the criteria that the Government will again make in a special decision. It is concluded that the parties in power want to bring a special act through the government's parliamentary majority to identify similar and inadequate companies, so that they will conduct negotiations with them that will be done by the company and for what money. What is the effect of Article 5, which defines this procedure? A negotiation procedure shall be applied without publication of a public call in accordance with the law governing public procurement. Therefore, the procurement procedure is avoided. Paragraph 3 states that the contracting authority is obliged to make a call to all undertakings listed in Article 3 of Article 2 of this Act, so those undertakings which have been found to be similar, because the government will establish a special list of companies that can do the tasks financed under this law, and the undertakings that can operate these transactions will be those undertakings that the coalition partners in the Government will determine, and will make a call to these undertakings, previously similar, and the time limit for the submission of the offer is 15 days from the date of the invitation to tender. The request for the protection of the rights of the tenderer and of the public interest does not continue to retain the activities of the contracting authority in the procurement process. By way of Article 5 of this Act, the Public Procurement Act is fully derrogated and fully out of force in this area, because the deadline that has been set so far in the Public Procurement Act, which is 45 days, and in many cases the request is written so that the deadline is shortened for justified reasons, and we will get that the time limit for supplying offers will be 15 days, but the request for protection of the right of the tenderer may go towards the Commission for the protection of the rights of the tenderer but will not significantly further affect the activities of the contracting authority. Thus, through this article, it is fully prescribed in which way jobs financed from the state budget for these purposes will be allocated. The whole benefit of this law will be that the deadline will be reduced from 45 to 15 days and that those people who think they are damaged by submitting their offers will not be able to exercise their rights, or the commission can consider their objections, but it will not affect further performance of the job. So, even those people who won't get jobs and who, due to a lower price, are going to demand better conditions to protect their rights, will not be able to achieve those rights, because through this member of the law, it will be absolutely impossible. I really don't understand, if we wanted to be honest about helping to speed things up (I just don't see what the jobs are waiting for and why the whole construction industry stands for, and that in this way we have to harshly violate the provisions of the Public Procurement Act), why it was not going to change certain members of the Public Procurement Act that define the deadlines for making decisions and supplying offers, which, in practice, would be fully respected by what it says in the law and would not create the possibility and doubt that through this law is moving into even greater corruption, which has obviously existed until now, especially in the area of construction works and investment by the state. According to Transparency International, in 2009, Serbia was behind Montenegro after the 3.5 corruption index in 83rd place, behind Macedonia. By entering into force of this law, where huge funds from the state budget will be given to performers by means of a direct contract, I guarantee that the degree of corruption will rise by at least five index points and that Serbia will be even more infamous than it was. The DSS has submitted a number of amendments concerning procedures defined in the members of this law and believes that the adoption of this law will severely violate the public's principle of spending state resources, especially in selecting contractors for those projects financed by the state. We believe that, no matter how much we want to help the domestic construction industry, it cannot be excluded from the process of public and public calling and tendering for the performance of certain works and that public interest must be protected through the possibility of applying for the protection of the rights of the bidder. In line with how the government will be defined according to these amendments, so we will be defined according to the whole law. Basically, we support the idea that domestic industry and domestic economy are being helped through certain measures, but this does not mean that the adoption of such a law, which will completely exclude the public and the ability to control the public over state finances and create opportunities for corruption, should be a front for what will come out of this law. Many of the positive effects of this law will be completely thrown at the feet of Article 5, which will allow parties in power first to choose which firms are similar to those of the state projects, and then agree with them to determine what price will be for these projects and how many parties in power or individuals will have on a percentage basis from these projects. In this way, the state will, in addition to this negative effect, go into another dubiosis – or the state will take huge loans to build certain facilities for which there is a need but not necessary at this time because we are really in a difficult crisis, or it will call tenders, give jobs to private enterprises, and not pay them money, but also make them pay expensive loans to the banks, or total bankruptcy, because the state will have nothing to pay them out of because of the huge assets that are not real income in the budget, but will have to be provided in other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42567	One minute and 30 seconds is the rest of the time. The word is by MP Djordje Milicevic, an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42568	I would like to say, firstly, that it is quite clear that this government is trying and wanting to see all the seriousness of the negative effects of the economic crisis, that it is looking for and offering certain solutions when it comes to economic and budgetary and social policy. It is true and I would agree with Mr Minister that the construction industry is of particular national importance within the framework of the Strategy for overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis. What can certainly be noted is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the measures proposed so far, is seeking to maintain and increase production levels as much as possible and investment levels. Of course, significant investment in infrastructure is present, because only such an approach allows for the key and burning issue and problem in Serbia, which is the issue of unemployment. It is true that the situation in construction is bad, and this shows the data that are very precise among other things in the context of this legislative proposal that is before us today, but it is also true that it is the recognizable intensity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to activities that are directed towards low-building. Corridor 10 is a national issue and today everyone in Serbia understands the importance of Corridor 10. Developed infrastructure is a condition of a more efficient economy, namely without infrastructure, I would say, there is no economic development. We think it is very important for Serbia to become a major construction site, because this is the basis and precondition for a better future for Serbia. Of course, for Serbia's economy in general, it is very important to launch and stimulate high-building, whose main deficit is, among other things, the lack of demand in the private sector, and of course we support the state's intention to increase demand through extraordinary measures. We support this legislative proposal in principle because we actually want to support the goal which is to achieve the adoption of this law, which is to encourage, develop and employ domestic construction enterprises and ensure the liquidity of the sector, then develop and employ domestic enterprises dealing with the production of construction material, the ability to create new jobs and, of course, to enable and encourage economic development in Serbia, which is of paramount importance. Also, by supporting this legislative proposal in principle, we want to support what will be realised and funded in accordance with this law, which is the construction of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, health institutions, apartments, highways, state roads, sports facilities, buildings to carry out activities in the fields of culture and other objects of public importance. What else, in our opinion, is extremely important when it comes to this legal proposal? For projects financed by the state, a procedure for selecting bidders has been accelerated, the suspension fact of the objection to the continuation of the public procurement process itself has been lifted, with the obligation to send the invitation to all domestic companies meeting the criteria. We assume that criteria, among other things, will be a number of squares built in one or the past two years, that they have a certain number of employees and that there are certain investments in equipment and means of work. Of course, the state controls the implementation of the projects, sets minimum and maximum prices, and the implementation of the projects will have to use domestic building material in participation of at least, as stated in this legislative proposal, 70%. Also, the law provides for faster issue of construction permits, which is extremely important and will avoid the slowness of administration in individual local self-governments, which is today a fact. It is true that certain unknowns, when it comes to this legislative proposal, are the conditions and way of funding, who and how many percent of the projects will finance, how much of the projects will finance the city, how many percent of the projects will be financed by state or business banks, etc. It is also said that the government is establishing a list of projects to be financed. It is only logical that the funds for their financing are foreseen in the budget and how it will be realised in this particular case, when it comes to this legislative proposal. What has actually been most affected in recent days has actually been contained in one issue – is any provision of this law in any way disrupting the application of the Law on Public Procurement and previously signed international agreements? We want to believe that these accelerated procedures will enable the government to help the construction industry out of the crisis, i.e. to increase the activity of the construction industry, which is the smallest in the last ten years. We are convinced, as the minister said in his opening statement, that in the next month we will also have the first positive expected effects. For this reason, once again, I would like to reiterate that the SPS-JS parliamentary group in principle supports this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42569	Six minutes and 35 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The word is held by MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, you just mentioned some of the "tender gardeners" in one of the address to the MPs. Now imagine the irony - you, as a representative of the government, are complaining to the Assembly for appearances in society, in the state, in the economy, which is why you cannot function properly, not you, but the Government. In the name of the SRS, who is obliged to respond to them? The mechanisms are in your hands. The institutions are in your hands. What's the matter? Do you not have the political will, do you not have the political courage or the willingness to deal with the people you mentioned? What's left of us sitting in opposition? Imagine the story, a brief crackdown, a lunatic today ordered a text in the newspaper "Blic" – Vojislav Seselj ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. Should we expect the state to react? From the competent state authorities? We can't. We're asking the police and we're asking the B.I.A. to determine all the facts. Can we expect them to do that? We can't. And it's important to us to initiate actions and prove the truth. We live in such a country, but you complain of the weaknesses that you should correct. It's nice that you just said – 86% of municipalities have entered the procedure for making spatial and planning documentation. But that's not the end of the story. The real story opens up when you look at who's doing the spatial plans, who's doing the planning documents, who has the privilege of getting those jobs. There they are across from the president at Andric's wedding (we will not promote them). We can now welcome the idea of fostering state interventionism in the construction industry, but it will only come to that. And that's where every positive story ends. We are afraid and openly doubting the abuses, which will certainly be, and whose wings have been given wind into the sails due to certain provisions of this law. You assure us that this will revive the construction industry, and the government and the National Bank of Serbia cannot agree on the lease for housing. Who's to blame for that? Two eyes in my head, if I can speak so freely, they're fighting and they can't agree on the banal thing. It's true, it's obvious that they're the bad guys, we wouldn't be choosing a new governor if they weren't. But then your story and the promotion of this law must indeed have a measure, that it does not appear like everything is nice and that we live in Disneyland. You say this is a very important law, which will help the construction industry, and then you mention the mysteries and these people, the builders. Tell us where it says in this law that the people you're talking about will be seen through this law? It doesn't say anything. You're a serious story about helping these people get out of Parliament, getting out of the law, and trusting in sublaws. And it's a practice that continues here. We really have reasonable doubts about what you're about to do. We will also try through the story of all this to point out, and we have delivered amendments to which we have tried to react to this text of the law and I believe that if you accept them, you will at least be able to show in part what you said in your opening statement or in one of your presentations today. Why are we against it? We don't mind, but we do. objectively, state interventionism here raises questions, because people who suggest measures will be seen, a group of people who make up 30% of the construction operation that works today. Will the builder of Nis have benefits under this law? Will people who don't receive salaries for years, don't have paid taxes and contributions, be seen through this? Will the companies that take care of these workers have references that you've defined here to get a job, on the one hand, or to withdraw credit, on the other hand? Well, they won't, of course. The SRS believes that the interventionism that you have defined yourself to be dangerous is devastating, because it is not managed by economic interests, but managed solely by political interests, by the political interests of those who today make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you have shown years ago that you have been able to use certain marketing values of some projects skillfully. And you can't convince us at all that this isn't one of those categories. This is going to be a skillful use. In this year's not, because it's already gone, I'll talk about it a little later, when it comes to the construction season, but you'll definitely use it next year. Everything you have stated in this law cannot be recognized or solved. This law, as it's written, you know what it looks like most? In a construction dictionary, I'd say, for an idea solution. On these eight members, you could lower another 70 or 80 members, so it all gets some sense. But to put that in eight members and all the important things in this law, trust the government and define the sublaws, so where are we to see political correctness or to see the economic interest of this country? And we know what experience they have with the laws that came from your ministry. Here, even if I fence up and say I don't want to doubt your own good will and intent, let's assume that's the case. What about the Law of Planning and Construction? He's stuck. You're preparing his alterations and additions. What happened to the regulations that passed under that law? Have you shown any willingness or courage or strength to oppose the stakeholders you had to oppose, and have been very interested in the Law on Planning and Construction and in the sublegal acts, that is, those regulations that are almost controversial today. What happened to the State Prime Minister and the Catastra Act? Why do I mention him? Well, it's one of the most important laws that regulates the real estate market, and the real estate market is very important for what we're talking about today. We've already changed it. By the time we got there with that fixed-moving disaster in Serbia today, you know it best. That is why it is not rare for you to say that the situation is catastrophic in a segment which, unfortunately, has much less attention on your part than the environmental protection sector. Take a look at the 2009 report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to construction, you have one segment of text this big, almost everything else is dedicated to protecting the environment. And today you convince us that these are the right things, which will give a boost to the construction industry, that is, the economic development of Serbia in the situation in which it really is today. Look, let's say, what you wrote in the explanation, that is, in the impact analysis. I won't read everything, but look at this – solving the current debt of construction companies, especially towards the banking sector. This law will solve the liquidity problem in the construction industry? Why didn't you show your will and settle your debts to the construction industry? You owe 140m euros from the previous year, 30 billion dinars from 2007. How many debts from the 2008 construction industry have you settled? It's a real story about resolving the liquidity issue of the construction sector. What are you going to do? Did you separate six billion from the budget, or are you planning on doing it based on these measures, and you're going to raise the construction industry? And I repeat the story from the beginning, this will again be done by those whose state interventionism was not necessary at all, who, in times of crisis with their financial opportunities, were able to swim, and today they are the only ones in Serbia and are working, but they are not being limited by state intervention. You know their business failures. They like it when the state subsidizes them through credits, but they have no intention of showing social responsibility and doing something with their profits. I wouldn't say even social responsibility, it won't settle its basic and elemental social obligations, pay the workers, and 50,000 of them have lost their jobs in the construction sector in the past two years, pay, taxes and contributions. And now we're representing this as a big deal. Of course we can't. We ask you, Mr. Minister, why this wasn't done at the beginning of the year. Will this wait for budget rebalance? Where are you going to pinch three or six billion to finance or co-finance the projects you define by this law? On what? From where? Those are the real stories we were supposed to tell today. There's nothing in the law. It's all entrusted to the government, past the Assembly and certainly beyond the public. What does it say next? Preserving the resources of construction enterprises, and above all their material substances. I told them about the government's debts, but there's no need to get around their debts to the state. We have proposed such amendments, in particular, by the criteria to be defined through sublegal acts, to take into account the companies owed and owed to the state. You're just mentioning protectionism. What does intervention of the state serve rather than protectionistly taking up our relationship with domestic businesses? What's the problem? Those who don't need state intervention, you can't even impose rules on them. They're going to invest where they can do it, they're going to install the equipment and materials they want, and you don't have to, and you can't get involved. But once you've defined the state to react, then react completely categorically and react to the end, that this construction sector really feels certain effects, as already in this sector it intervenes. You say further – increasing financial discipline by abolishing dumping and the grey economy of working on black. The building is the second area of the Serbian industry in the gray zone. If the state showed its will, it had the power to deal with the gray economy in a comprehensive way, everything would be different. The SRS is convinced that for the development of the construction industry and in general the economy in Serbia today would have more effects to discuss the Law on fiscal responsibility than this law, because fiscal responsibility is something that would provide money, which you say is not there. He's got it, but you can't trace it. And much smarter would be spent in investments in this area, which, according to the SRS, must indeed be one of the priority momentums of the Republic of Serbia's economy. And that's where we can't argue, that's where we give you the right when you say it's very important. It is very important, but everything else is really questionable, from writing to applying all of this. And speaking of application, this law, Mr. Minister, is a guide for subjective interpretation of regulations and corruption. I'll try to explain why I said it like that, and we said it very specifically through our amendments. First, it's a matter of public procurement. You say it is in accordance with the law. And why did you skip, first, a restrictive path, then negotiating with a public call? You couldn't find yourself in those two, so you took a negotiation procedure without a public call. To believe there will be no abuse. Well, you personally know, Mr. Minister, that there are the presidents of municipalities that have construction firms, according to which there is a tendency of individual members of the government. Imagine what's going to happen at that level. It happens now, without this law, and imagine now, where the Public Procurement Act is used in its segment where it is most interesting for abuses and corruption. Imagine what's going to happen here. What does it say, what are the criteria, what companies are going to do? There's nothing. There's nothing here. You've entrusted everything to the government. For the SRS, it's the greatest danger and the biggest problem, of course. I'm going back to protectionism. Why 70% of the building materials and equipment? Ask construction firms, construction workers, those who really do take this job seriously. There is hardly anything in the construction industry today without being produced in Serbia. Seventy percent isn't enough. You've defined yourself as protectionism. Hello. Why isn't it 100%? We acted on it with our amendments and we said, "Let the character of the projects be such that only the domestic material is used." What's imported from abroad is luxury. And even the luxury spheres have nothing more that cannot be produced in Serbia. This will be employed by domestic construction firms, it will be employed by construction material producers and those who will offer construction services. To give the job exclusively to those who have a seat here, who pay taxes here, who pay contributions here, and that the dizziness you're looking for and where you insist on actually starts. That makes sense. What 70%? Make it 100%. And everything else, I'm going back to the story of those who are private investors, who decide for themselves, that you don't need to, and you can't interfere. It's yours to create for them the prerequisites to spend their money. Of course, as the state does, you and I both know. Look at Article 7 of the Law. Do we really believe there will be no abuse here? It refers to projects that have already begun. Why should we not doubt that you will align the criteria with the projects that have started? Why don't we recognize the interest of someone to finance, through this arrangement, their failed investments from the previous period? What is our guarantee that this will not be used in political promotion and political marketing? It's nothing, and experience tells us it's going to be. That's why we're reserved for this. You say an emergency procedure. Today there were words, in the voting day, when you voted, that the law based on the Constitution... So we plead that the law enters into force before the constitutional decree of eight days after this. Well, that would make sense if you discussed this in January or February. We're in the middle of a construction season. Now you're explaining an emergency procedure. As long as all this is in place and implemented, we'll be out of the construction season. What's the point? What's this about? That's why I'm saying that the government had to find a measure, and you, as its representative, when one of these, a brother-in-law, unspeakable and tendingly brought such a law before the MPs. I think you've been obliged and obliged, and I expected from you, frankly, that something like this will happen. For the very end, the SRS will not support this, in this form, of course. We have proposed amendments that we believe will benefit not from the government but from the construction sector, which really needs help. I think you should seriously consider them and accept them. It seems to me, I repeat, that it would be good for everyone. Like this, inconclusive and thin, he really doesn't deserve support. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42571	A 19-minute mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42572	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected everything, but to see this law appear in the procedure, it's a big surprise for us. That in the 21st century, after so many European laws, you are now offering to be someone who will bargain, make and negotiate jobs... And who's the one who could do it in the current government? Many people responded, many are in prison – was there a tender, was it not a tender, I don't know if it was well published, etc., and now you're looking for total anarchy. Be very specific, prepare some law that would be a solution. We know that construction is in a major crisis, we know that the road economy is in a major crisis, we know that you promised in March great works and great investments, we know that you promised highways, four highways at once, and now you're going to make one somewhere out of the middle. It is as if a man were to build a house, build a pantry, and do not touch everything else, and he says, "Behold, for this year enough, let us build it, and everything else will stand." They must first base themselves. No one starts a road where they can't even find where you made it. As recently, one of your coalition partners began to build the Valjevo-Losnica railroad. They built a 500-metre rail and a little tunnel, and now it's standing in some corn over there and no one's been in there for 20 years anymore. What do you do with that piece of railroad and that tunnel? But in one campaign, it was taken, it showed, it appeared, someone said -- a railroad was being built, the people believed, voted, and it all ended that way. There's nothing to build. The construction season is over, and now we're passing laws. Annual vacations pass, autumn comes and the construction season is over. Mr. Minister, this is your third construction season as Minister of Construction. It hasn't moved off the dead end yet. I used to talk to you here and talk to you about some business, about Nuba Invest, some firms, etc. I don't know what your comment is now when you've been making all kinds of rude comments on the paper, and recently, Ratel wrote officially that Nuba Invest can't do that job and sent me a letter to the Assembly because it's not authorized. It'd be like giving the cabbies a cab, and he doesn't have a driver's license. If that's how you decide how to do it now, give permission, give jobs, I don't know where we're gonna go. This is a big problem, and a big problem will be in many investments. One private has five or six of the same companies registered to different names. There are party companies here, party firms. I was recently surprised to see that one of the former high-ranking officials appeared in the construction, in the travel industry, with an asphalt base, with a firm, in one campaign. He's doing a man's work. He's doing a great job. He's got all the jobs and he's got and he's got nothing on him. Why? Because he's from the ruling coalition. If he were from the opposition, there'd be a lot of problems and he certainly couldn't have done it. How are you going to solve this and what's going to happen? You know what the problem is. The tender cannot be called until the financial structure is closed. You recently made irresponsible statements that you do not have projects for many. It's not true, you have projects, but some of your friends, who are extremely hard criminals, may have put away projects, so now they're redesigning for the same money, just changing the cover and serving the project. How could there be no project for something that was in the international tender? How is it possible that the biggest European giants compete for a job and you say you don't have project documentation? So, just smile (you smile nicely, you have a nice smile, like this, with Mrs. Comić when you exchange, and that's very nice), but I'm telling you that you are now introducing this country into big problems. You start working again without money, without security, without closed financial structures, without any obligations, some of the credit lines you announced, and they're nowhere to be found. Tell me, Mr. Minister, in the third construction season how many housing units you've built in Serbia, how many houses, how many apartments. How much did you hand over to the citizens for use? How much was made out of those four highways, miles of roads? What about this for Macedonia that you opened? Did you get permission for this piece of highway to Kragujevac? Does he have a building permit or not yet? So you have to be very clear, very specific. We cannot talk in Parliament - people will be hired. You know what that is -- we're going to do a job like this, we're going to speed up the job, and we're going to hire people. How fast do you speed up? How many workers are we going to hire? What are these projects? Does this stay permanent? What are those investments? What are the infrastructure projects? How many people are working in the travel industry now? How many people are engaged in the construction industry right now, working actively and getting paid neatly? How many construction firms work and how many companies don't work? What about the giants that existed and today they don't exist, they're out? Is he gonna do this or not? How much investment are you planning by the end of the year? How much money do you have? How many financial structures have you closed down, for which projects, to adopt this law and to discuss it? How much do you have planned now for investment in construction, how much in the travel industry? How much money, how many housing units? You've been talking about thousands of apartments, none yet made. You've been talking about projects that are going to work, now you're going to start doing something on the highway with two billion dinars. What can be done? You can't call a tender with two billion dinars. You have to collect some tolls, get a little scam, work, and then pay them something occasionally. How, in what way? What will be the revenue from these investments that are under way? Will they be able to service the credit lines? What will you get from Novi Sad, Subotica, when it's already charged? From what will it be maintained, what will the credit lines be paid from if they are taken, and how much will they be paid? Will this investment add to Serbia's budget? It will. Do you know how long it takes to keep the highway a mile away? What do you pay for it? So starting something just marketing doesn't make any sense anymore. That's the marketing we've been watching. Yesterday your colleague opens a liquor distillery, and two of them are locked up in the neighborhood and not working. Why? And credit is given to open a third, with one of the activists of a particular political party. Yesterday, chefs, tasters, waiters are brought there to make lunch for a minister who is very important. He also has tasters, I didn't know until yesterday. The day before the cooks come, they take over the restaurant, make him lunch. Mr. Dolliche, where are we going? How did you get so much money? How come you're spending your money unintentioned? Make sure it was in poor Koserić yesterday or it wasn't. It was. There comes a bus of people who provide a minister who comes there to open a new one, and I repeat, two distilleries exist in the neighborhood and stand empty, healed into nettles. There's a little bit of work to be done. Many factories have been shut down and construction firms have been destroyed by not paying their bills in good time. I know, you're gonna say something like a nuclear accident again. I don't know what you meant by that when you were giving an interview. I didn't understand. I hope you can explain that sometime. Mr. Minister, you forget, after one chaos and bombing and destruction in this country that someone did something and built something, and how, how does our people live there? But you didn't make it for the third construction season. Dig up those planes that are standing with missiles buried in the ground. Do something concrete. Don't just change the laws. Now you want to get out of public procurement because it bothers you now. You didn't open any new companies, did you? Yeah, I'm sure it is. And now only your party comrades work while giants fail. Take it, look who's a contractor, who's the people who came back to do those old jobs that made Serbia have big problems once. Now he's your chief operative in Mr. Chume's state. We have to call him a gentleman, because now there's going to be a university and college, there's a institute, now there's a design house, and there's going to be a supervisory service, and there's going to be everything. That's where you came in. Now, in order for Mr. Chume to work, or Pera or Žika or Tika Timothyjevic, or someone else, of course, now is no good tender, because the banks will say – people, for example, can't work for you, etc. Now they don't need tenders. I used to say that the law was wrong, so you all attacked me so much and insulted me, that you didn't tell me everything, but well, it went through. I said that the law must experience changes, but not in this way, that you leave freedom, that literally legitimately, through legal provisions, you can do whatever you want. With this little money that's got, with these credit lines coming in, the state is in debt. You're all making private companies. How many of you, Mr. Dulic, do you have private firms? How many pieces? You'll never say, you're ashamed. If I were you, I wouldn't be ashamed. When a man is ashamed to say something, it means something's wrong. Now you might have thought a little bit of construction to try, you or some of your friends. I see some of the police have already started working bridges. They tried people, they got bridges. Do you believe... ? I'd like one day to take a trip, take you, if you're in the mood, see what's done and built. The four-metre bridge is reconstructed in Mrčajevci, five-six, one after the other, there are traffic lights, of which you cannot pass an hour, but it lasts for a year. A bridge in the Adriatics, for a year now, I don't know what you've been doing to him anymore. I used to, as a young engineer, participate in its construction, and we made it very quickly, in a few months, and now it's going to be reconstructed for a few years. Why do these works go so slowly? They're made by people who don't know shit about it. There's some companies here... I was surprised to see who got 12 bridges to work. How? What are the references of these people that make bridges? Where did they build them and work them? And the companies that did it extraordinaryly fail. The Bridge can't get any jobs. Not Rad, not Komgrap, not Ratko Mitrovic. No one can get a job. But that's why Pera, Zika and Mike will get the job. Why? Party. It's going to work, and it's going to get and it's going to work. The law must change something, but you had to think of something so we could work and build. And here, be specific. What's the matter, Mr. Dulic? What's it to you that's got to do with this kind of problem that was created in construction? There's no money to build. There's no people able to raise credit lines to buy apartments. He needs cheap construction. Mr. Dulic, in Međa, Jasa Tomic, I made houses 260 euros per square, "key in hand", and handed it over. What's the construction today? How much is it? What's the square? Who can pay for it, who can buy it? Therefore, get serious and make a law, offer, to save Serbian construction, to hire construction, but first have to provide funds. First, people have to get jobs, raise standards, receive salaries so they can use credit lines. It's all connected. Construction is the initial chapel of the development of the Serbian economy, but how do you start it? How many building permits have you issued? Nothing. You told me unfairly that I did an object without permission. That's not true. You can take a look and check it out. The building permit stands like a door. I'll show you. I used to bring it to you when I saw you. And don't use half-information. You're the minister, and when you say something, it must have some weight. For example, do something for construction and I'll be the first to commend you and I'll be grateful. I expected a lot more from you. When you came and I handed over your duty, I thought you'd be on your way. You're not on your way, Mr. Dulic, not at all. You're still stuck collecting bottles and wastes around the river. It suits you, and you're doing it fine, and you should do it, but you need to let this one go. You'll get into a lot of trouble. This Nuba Invest thing you have to cancel, that license you gave. You can't go through Soros later and Nuba Invest to be a subcontractor. We know, we're not small. Everyone wrote that this permit was invalid and answered, and you were the only one who didn't answer when I asked you a parliamentary question. You didn't say you issued a permit that doesn't comply with the law, because whoever got the job of 25m euros without a tender has committed a major offense. I'm not going to rephrase it, I'm not going to go into polemics with you, I'm not going to discuss it, I'm just saying, Mr. Dulic, what you're doing is wrong. It's not good and make sure you do something good. Time's ticking. You're panicking, and now you want to do it this way... If you do, you'll be entering the fourth construction season in the spring without doing anything. It doesn't make sense. You must do something at least in the fall. Come on, get ready for the fall and do something. Don't tell empty stories. And don't collect those offers to the firm when they're the same boss. One boss has seven firms and you collect five or six offers from the same man. It's not right and it can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42573	People's MP, 20 minutes has been used. Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, are answering for a word anymore, we move to the course of the session according to the application for a word. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the ZES parliamentary group, the "New Serbia" parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the "Forward, Serbia" and the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be declared is MP Bojana Stanojevic, followed by MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42574	The President-in-Office, respected ministers and fellow MPs, we have before us a law whose application should ease the major crisis in which the construction industry in Serbia was found. According to available data, the Serbian industry is slowly coming out of the crisis and experiencing some kind of recovery. However, this is not the case with the construction industry, as it also recorded a drastic decline in 2009 and 2010. The global economic crisis, i.e. the particular crisis that has affected construction throughout the world, has been worst designed in this area in Serbia. It was therefore necessary to find ways to alleviate this situation and to find ways that would lead slowly to recovery. The government has already reacted in various ways to help this area. Repeat, among other things, what the minister said, subsidising the interest rate when buying construction material, subsidising interest rates at the purchase of apartments, however, has proved that all this is not enough and that there are still ways to strengthen this area as much as possible. That's why the Resort Ministry wrote this law, which will have a temporary character. It should be stressed that it has until 31 December 2011 and should create conditions for the recovery of a construction operation, in which the state of emergency is somehow ruled. It is necessary to reduce the high degree of liquidity of these companies and to reduce the high unemployment in this area. A part of the construction industry has already been launched in some way, when it comes to low construction, through investment of the end of Corridor 10, and it has already been announced that it will start with projects to invest some other important corridors through Serbia. However, it is particularly important to activate a high-building area. It is necessary to employ domestic construction companies involved in the production of construction materials and, of course, companies involved in the execution. The minister has already noted, but has not been burned again for reasons of the general public, to make it clear what the essence of this law is. On a proposal from the competent ministry, namely on a proposal from local self-government, the Government will establish projects for construction, reconstruction or adaptation, which will be financed in part or in whole from the budget of the Republic, the province or the municipality. All of these projects are implemented by domestic construction companies and domestic building materials must be used, at least 70% of the total planned amount. It is about projects for the construction or reconstruction of schools and kindergartens, hospitals and health institutions, collective housing buildings, sports facilities, objects that will benefit the culture and all other facilities for which public interest needs to be declared. It is good that the procurement procedure has been simplified, i.e. that the contractors are selected through the negotiation procedure without a public call being made public. In any case, this does not mean that the Law on Public Procurement is not respected, but means that the existing law found a way to shorten this procedure and to bring about the work itself as soon as possible. The call is made to all businesses involved in these affairs. The ministry will, according to certain criteria, make a list of these companies. The government, which is very important, will give the highest and lowest prices, which will prevent dumping of prices or excesses of the amount of certain works. It is perfectly understandable that such a law is passed by emergency procedure. Its application should go as soon as possible, but that does not mean that existing laws, which are now in force, will not be respected by the Public Procurement Act, that no law on planning and construction will be respected. Of course, all these works will be carried out according to existing spatial and urban plans and that the procedure for issuing building permits will be implemented absolutely according to the applicable law. With this in mind, knowing the importance of this whole situation, that the sooner it is to respond, the ZES parliamentary group will declare itself in the Voting Day for the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42575	Five minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and then the Messenger of the People is Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42576	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People and the respected citizens who watch this direct transmission, I will try to say in some way in my discussion something that the previous speakers, whether the opposition or representatives of the ruling coalition, may not have said so far. I will start with the very title of the law, on the incentive of the construction mafia of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. Mr. Minister, given the laws the National Assembly has passed over the past year, I think that today's bill of law, which you represent here, has a profound political message and a political dimension. If we remember that this assembly has passed deep anti-European laws, such as the Information Act, so to speak. The reform of the judiciary, the Law on Electronic Communications, I think this is one of a series of laws being passed, I think, contrary to some European rules. Related to the statements of the head of this country and the party leader you belong to, analysing it in the last few months, where the open threats to some Western countries, where some of the ministers of some investors, let's say openly - Bodo Hombah, and it is not "New Serbia", Velimir Ilic, nor the New Serbia MPs, nor did Serbian citizens bring him to Serbia, we know well who brought him to Serbia, qualified him with very ugly words, and these are very bad messages to the world and to Europe at the moment when investments are missing in this country. In that context, I will try to say a few words about this law and ask some questions, which I expect you to answer. It's nice to say that we want to favour domestic enterprises. "New Serbia," and in particular the president of "New Serbia" has tried and spoken for years, and has been called all kinds of offensive expressions and qualifications, that it is not for Europe, that it is an anti-European, and as we see, not only in the major economic crisis, which has rocked our country, and it seems that we are just entering it, no matter what the previous speaker, my colleague, all indicators, and even balances in the construction industry, say that we are becoming more and more in crisis, and now we have state intervention. Mr. Dulic, I think that's very different from what your coalition in the 2008 pre-election programme offered citizens. We offered something else, we got as much as we got, we went the way we went, it doesn't matter in this story that I want to tell right now, it's important how the citizens live. Now you say here and you come along, I have to tell you in a few next sentences, on fertile ground. We Chacans are known as localpatriots and now we read this law – it would be best if jobs in construction in Chačak were obtained by Chacan companies. In preparation for this discussion, I spoke with several presidents of the municipalities and mayors. They, Mr. Dulic, if you are informed of this, were prepared a month ago for this law, except that some other minister wrote some recommendations to them, and he is called Mr. Milan Markovic. I don't know if there's anything in his portfolio that you're defending here today, but that the presidents of the municipality and the mayors are already preparing for this bill. The essence of this law is – construction firms will get jobs through negotiations. So, all the discussions here, including the previous colleagues, that the Public Procurement Act, at least in the construction industry, is not suspended, are not true. He's absolutely suspended. When the president of "New Serbia" and then the minister is honest and fair, perhaps a little politically naive to this kind of media scene that exists in Serbia, and as a pragmatist, engineer and folk minister who made 4,000 kilometers of roads... Mr. Dulic, 4,000 kilometers of roads, and some roads you laughed at, and you know, there in Golia, the way to their houses, to their schools, to their children, that's Corridor 10 to them. You from your Subotica, from the ministerial chair, will never understand. So when Minister Ilic said that some of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act were not good, consistent with efficiency, some of the terms that someone, like you said, could complain, and also has no firm... But I don't know what it was like, Mr. Dulic, then competed and how he even came on the list of companies that compete for a job if he doesn't have a construction machine or a labor force. So, I repeat for the third time, when Minister Ilic, then well-intentioned, looked neither at his political rating nor his party's political rating, but what is the real interest of the citizens, that this infrastructure was done, primarily on the roads, for which he was in charge, you through your media, where you have a monopoly, ridiculed and armed. Now, today, on June 29th, Mr. Dulic, you came with a bill containing much of what Minister Ilic said in time. We, in principle, have nothing against state interventionism, that our domestic companies get jobs, just seems very unserious to us, Mr. Dulic, to suggest something like this in eight members of the law. How are you going to prevent corruption here? I'm surprised that the power of the state authorities involved, and the president himself, the president of the state, did not, for example, veto this law until something was discussed here. You think it'll prevent the risk of corruption from some government regulations? Who's gonna negotiate the main business? You're the one who listed the objects and the highways. Mr. Secretary, you were one of the main advocates and opponent of the concession, so you asked, about 25,000 pages was, so I went to see it myself. I'm not talking about the party right now, I'm talking about myself. What's wrong with that? Everything was fine, just one item there, where that firm that got the concession to build a highway, and that was their right not to know at what price. What do we have now, Mr. Minister? We'll remind the citizens and through this pay phone, with as many minutes as we have, what are you talking about? Now you're gonna do it with negotiations. So, some companies that are under your authority, or your ministry, get jobs. It's like we don't know they've got two or three firms in Serbia, so they're taking subcontractors. That's what you're talking to us about. How is the state going to make a little money that she has and what she has (I'm not saying that you're the sole culprit), how that money is going to be fairly distributed, when there's no tender now, what they are, and the procedure that is slow, where some people complain, or get firms that shouldn't, but how are you going to stop now, how are you going to turn away the suspicions of citizens that in these negotiations... ? Imagine, there'll be a billion-euro deal and we'll settle it with negotiations. You'd have to say a few sentences at least to tell us about it, otherwise this will turn into a law on tycoon bridges. Now we're going to negotiate, say, with some tycoon, as the head of state, who stole, peopleally, 100m euros -- invest, masters, 20m euros, we're going to hit the board 'tacun bridge', and these 80m euros, well, the people have already forgotten that, they were kidnapped in time. So I express my doubts about the purpose of this law, not only because it is the end of the construction season, Mr. Minister, but because of the question of what is the real intention of this law, whether to legalise already the murky actions that are being done. Our party's president Velimir Ilic literally told the names of both companies and people a few minutes ago. Whether to be now, since the end of the term of office is 2012. (as a mantra each minister says so, and Krusevac told you yesterday that it would not be 2012, it would be a little sooner), should we in some way prepare for a more fugitive when the government changes? We've got this law in our hands, so we've done business - negotiations. And you know, there can be a lot of things in the negotiations. He can be, but he doesn't have to mean what the people say. The law on public procurement, as it is, trom and imprecise in many things, was still a defense not to spend people's money on how I think it's going to be spent. So I think you're obliged to here, and not just to the MPs, but to the general public who is watching this transmission, explain why... This law is not so naive at all, Mr. Minister. I have spoken and tried to talk about the political dimension, but no policy is being conducted for the sake of cheese and military music, but in every policy there is economic interest. The election's coming up, Mr. Minister. That this law doesn't exist because some little commission should be paid? You'll need a lot of money to win this election, Mr. Dulic. Much more, believe me, than you promised in Bora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42577	The time of the parliamentary group has been used. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42578	You know, in psychology, there's something called auto projection. When you try to imagine yourself in some role, then you design what you would do if you were in that role. You might be doing what you're just saying, Mr. Markicevic, but I'm not doing it, and we're not doing it. You, in fact, are always trying to imply that this law is a good way to lead to corruption, and I'm telling you all the time that this law does nothing to change what is system law, which is the Law on Public Procurement, which defined the procurement process and which best defined how to prevent abuse and corruption from happening. We went even one step further. We recognized the situation in the construction sector as catastrophic and tried to compare it with all those situations where the Public Procurement Act recognized the possibility of an emergency procedure for business to be negotiated and to go into work, such as floods, slides, fires, emergency situations. Even in the Public Procurement Act, you have a definition of an emergency, which the client could not influence. We are in a situation that we have not been able to influence, which is called the global economic crisis and which is called a catastrophic decline in demand in the construction sector and the need for one sector to be saved for real, for people to be employed. So that's what this law is all about, we're just trying to define how it's going to be done. Will there be abuse and corruption? There'll be an attempt, sure. It's always been, and so far, and it's true, some people are now in prison because, without waiting for this law, they might have tried to creatively interpret the existing. And they should be in prison, like they should be in prison and people who try to abuse this law and take advantage of the situation in which we are now in order to gain any illegal property benefit. But, basically, this law should lead to people starting to work. Where'd the money come from? I said and I will repeat, the state has some funds, key money comes from banks, local self-government, the province, or the Republic will pool funds with bank funds, and we will finance those projects that are estimated to meet the criteria to help, to use domestic building materials most, and to employ the largest number of people. So we're talking about serious state intervention to save one sector. Doubts and the opening of doubts that this serves to calm down some appetites, etc., it is absolutely out of the question and it does not stand. And you'll see very well that it doesn't stand. As for all the things that were one salad of words, which was my predecessor's exposure, you could, of course, make, I'm sure, a bunch of replicas that I don't want to go into, because these replicas make all these things that have been said here, and they represent a series of false things. So, I don't want to argue with my predecessor, but I want to say one thing. At a time when the government ruled, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the country had fantastic economic growth, primarily thanks to the foundations set by the government of Zoran Djindjic. We had privatisation, we had big investments in the country, we had huge money that was coming into this country, we had very promising economic growth, which was, above all, based on the world being able to invest. At this point, we are in the most difficult economic crisis in mankind's history, and not only is it not going to us, it's not going to the whole world. When someone now asks the question why is not being built, it is not that it is not only built in Belgrade or Serbia, it is not being built around the world. Everyone's in trouble. Compared to that time with this time, there's a cheap political marketing that doesn't lead to anything, because no one remembers a crisis like this. So I don't want to talk about what the need is for this law to be passed and whether it's a question of abuse. I'm telling you it's an auto-projection. There is no need to question the fair intentions of this law. The intention is to save the construction sector. We're doing it now because we have to. There's a limited fact, to a time period when it's estimated that the crisis is going to take place, and God forbid that in the coming months people go to construction sites and start working and building. Make sure it has a positive effect on the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42579	National MP Miroslav Markicevic was registered in the electronic system. You've taken advantage of the MP's time. (Miroslav Markicevic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Miroslav Markicevic: He spoke of the predecessor. Please don't throw it away. I listen very carefully to all the speakers and it is my duty to assess whether there is a basis for replication. In this case, there is no basis for replication. The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has a word, and after him the Messenger of the people Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42580	Dear Chairman, Mr. Dulic, my colleague from Vrnjaka Banja has given an explanation, both as a person and as an MP, from the professional side of the view of this law, and I just wanted to point out that this law should have insight and some provisions that will recognise the specificities of some places. In particular, Novi Pazar, for example, does not have the Catastre of immovableity, and not only New Pazar, but I also think part of Belgrade, Cačak, Sjenica, Tutin, and in order for this law to be implemented and implemented at the moment, it is simply a matter of time needed to bring something into line with the Immobility Catastre. If this team that works on the adoption of the rules under this law has the intention and desire to apply this law, please bring as soon as possible, by regulation or by any other means, the possibility of being applied in these municipalities, if anything, to the facilities listed here in this law in the scope of implementation and implementation. The time of the construction season is literally already at an end. I'd like to point out that there's only four months of construction season in the Shadow. I believe that these difficult moments for the construction industry cannot be speeded up by this law, as much as they can be used this moment to prepare and identify the advantages at local level. This co-operation between local self-government and your ministry with construction firms and manufacturers can take advantage of this moment and this law that we are adopting here. The Sandzak Democratic Party will support this law in the voting day, because it recognises the urgency and moment of importance for, above all, the employment of people, the chances of being used for those facilities that will be of vital interest to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42581	Three minutes have been used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Vladimir Milentijevic. Just log in to the electronic system, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42582	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Unfortunately, I must say this is a sad day for post-Friday Serbia. If you mentioned, Mr. Minister, and we've known each other for a very long time (if I'm not mistaken since 1996), the government of Zoran Djindjic and the foundations she set, which we can agree on, I must tell you that one of the key foundations was the Public Procurement Act. If the basic argument for the adoption of this law is to care about the people who work on the scales, who are builders, who work in the production of cement or everything else, I have to tell you that what is the essence of helping all citizens is public control of the spending of their money. It's the essence of democracy. And, unfortunately, this is going to be a black day. I can speak, as my predecessor said, both as a person and as an MP. As a person, I was shocked when I received this law as a MP. Short and clear, the sole purpose of this law is the annulment, suspension of the Public Procurement Act, and as such, it is deeply anti-democratic. Anyone who votes for him will have that mark on them. That's what I'm telling you today. In addition, this law is also anti-European because it violates all contracts Serbia has signed with the EU so far. It will also violate Serbia's economy, because if we ban regional or world firms from taking part in the market in Serbia, they will ban it from our companies in their countries. But it won't be in the building, because we're not competitive here. The answer will follow in agriculture, in textiles. That is why this law is deep and anti-European and anti-regional. According to Article 76 of our fourth biggest victory last year, or this year, however you will, this is the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, our country has committed to giving its domestic firms the advantage of 15% by the end of the second year of implementation of the Agreement, 10% by the end of the third year and 5% by the end of the fourth year. This is a European standard. We have been given the procedure of a law that makes it impossible for companies that have no headquarters in Serbia to participate here. I'll remind you that the last government was forced to change the price of tolls, so sides and domestic vehicles have the same conditions to go through the country. It was not a decision that was made easily, but it was a decision that went towards Serbia's European integration. But to ignore European integration. That's where we think we should go to Europe. Obviously, from the last few laws and since there are no government proposals for European laws here, it is clear that there is a turn in front of this government. We can talk about this law, and we're completely behind it, deeply corrupt. It is corrupt because it completely eliminates the market and introduces protectionism, in which all decisions, from issuing permits, selecting projects, choosing firms, without any control, will be made by the Ministry. This was not the case in this country even during Slobodan Milosevic. Even then, the government was moving in some different ways. Today we have a fully open bill, in which everything, from beginning to end, is put into the hands of the Ministry, and the only thing that bothers us, is me as a folk MP who doesn't understand much in the building, but if there's a crisis here, if we have a bad planning law and all we have to do to get out of the crisis is to end public control of the spending of citizens' money, it's not true, and that argument is, at the very least, hypocritical. This law is also centralistic. Many colleagues talked about it. All decisions will be made, on the starting of a school in Surdulica or the repair of a toilet in a health home anywhere, in Belgrade. That's not how it works. It's simple, it's working and it won't work. But that's not even the intention. As far as the European integration process is concerned, this law is against competition. He's against the market. He'll bring instability into the economy. The consequences of this will be long-term, incredibly bad, and today we cannot be aware of them. The predictability of the economy is completely off-limits. What everyone's looking for in this country is predictability, from course to anything. We're passing a law that radically changes one industry. The reason for this is the crisis, but the consequences or ways in which this crisis will be resolved, there are no laws in this law. Do you know what this law will turn into? Each ruling coalition party will receive a certain percentage to place so many of its construction firms on this list, which will be determined by the government. Then these companies, in percentages where the ruling parties exist at the place, will work at the place and share some profits. We don't even have the criteria in this law for these companies to get a job on. They'll be determined by the government. We know how the government shares. We know how he divides everything (from the Judges of the Constitutional Court, so since there is one Suly, today we will choose one of Rasim's, lest he be angry), so we will share this. But the consequences will be much worse. It's very difficult to speak in detail. We've submitted the amendments. You, Mr. Minister, said you'd review our amendments. They're very simple, they say "wipe" on every member of this law. We haven't been able to find one thing in this law that would improve this law. He is simply scandalous in himself, and the solution does not offer, nor does he speak. We cannot use the argument of the crisis to bring down the basic institutions of a democratic society. The basic, or one of the basic institutes, as important as freedom of the media, is the control of the money that the government spends, and the money is the citizens of Serbia, from their taxes. And if that's the only thing that bothered the building of buildings today, if the state has the will, then believe it's the troublesome intention of someone who wants to spend money, not the very institution of control of that spending. And we can never agree on that. Today you will see that many organizations for the protection of democracy will react on this matter. We've heard from all of them. The infidelity is at stake, from many organizations involved in the protection of democracy, that something like this has come to the Assembly. And it's no wonder there's been a public debate avoided, which is why we got the law back for the weekend, and we need to discuss it today. What's only surprising is why there's no law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. It was just perfect for a merger. Because this is the essence of corruption. The police won't beat corruption. It's demagogy, when someone says it. Corruption will beat the extraction of states and individuals from decisions without clear rules. And clear rules don't exist in a country where they change every day. At every session of the Assembly, a radical change. Today, I will return to the beginning, you will lift public procurement from the construction sector. There's no end to that. Next is the suspension of public procurement... Isn't health care a crisis? Isn't it a crisis in agriculture? Then why and why are there public procurement there? Is there no problem with consumer protection? As an example or a reason to end it, you stated that there are "tender gardeners." Well, that's really scary. So, if the court said that the threat of journalists wasn't a threat to her freedom and he freed the suspects, and we all think that that decision was wrong, so did that lead to us abolishing justice in this country? What do we care about one particular case? Save him. You have the police. If it's an abuse, bring in a person, punish her criminally. It is not allowed to behave, that there is a company that serves only to tear down tenders, and certainly cannot be an argument to abolish public control of the spending of citizens' money. The builders won't save what the Ministry is about to assign a job. He won't. We had an example of Minister Mrkonjic in the "Rehabilitation, Development, Reform" campaign in 2000. That led us to power, among other things. Whomever this move will bring to power, that's what you have to do. I'll finish, since my colleagues want to talk, everyone wants to talk about this, of course, but let me tell you, this law has a temporary character. It has a temporary character, but the consequences of this law will be very long-term, as were the consequences of bad laws in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42583	Ten minutes of MP time was used. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic, and after that, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42584	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS is joining all those who consider it necessary to adopt this law to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia in the economic crisis, and not only in times and conditions of the economic crisis, but also for a long time. The DSS's economic team foresees in its programme that investment incentives should focus mainly on key industries, ato: agriculture, construction, infrastructure and energy. Especially on the branch of construction, because it has a chain of action in many of the business branches that are accompanied by construction (Mr. Minister said it was 35). Especially since the construction industry is on its knees. Unlike industry, the situation in construction is dramatic because there is a constant decline in 2009 and 2010, so that in April 2010, construction would record a decline of as much as 23.1% compared to 2009, and in the area of high-building decline is 49.1%, meaning 50% according to the data of the Republic Statistics Office. Although in principle we agree with the need to pass this law, we certainly cannot agree with certain provisions of this law, especially with Article. 3rd and 5th of this law. In particular, we disagree with the project implementation process. We have strong objections to Article 3 and Article 5. Article 3(2) regulates that the implementation of these projects in the time of the economic crisis can be attended by construction companies based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We agree with that, but it is relatively who owns individual enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, whether they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have an objection to Article 3(3), where it is predicted that domestic building materials must be used in the realisation of these projects in the participation of at least 70% of the necessary building materials and equipment for individual buildings. It is good that this provision favours domestic production of construction material, but it raises the question of who will control whether it is domestic or imported material. That's not there and that's one of the remarks. So, this law lacks control for the involvement of construction material in domestic production facilities. The most controversial member of this law is Article 5. That's almost all my predecessors pointed out and the DSS is joining it. This member is scheduled to apply the negotiation procedure without public call, reportedly due to urgency in terms of the economic crisis. The law on public procurement provides precisely when the negotiation process is applied and it must be respected as a whole while it is in force. Minister Dulic has indicated who will be the contractors. The contractors will be those, according to him, who have an honorable reference, quality and extensive machinery, construction equipment, auctioned personnel etc. In doing so, I don't know if Mr. Minister knows how many companies that don't have an honorable reference, and they have a high-quality and extensive mechanism just because they didn't get jobs under the Public Procurement Act, but in the negotiation process. It's a key moment and a member that needs to be deleted anyway. The DSS, like all other opposition parliamentary groups, has submitted an amendment to that article. Why? Because there is no argument that excludes the Public Procurement Act without it being prescribed in the Public Procurement Act. There's no speed and need for an emergency procedure in construction. This process does not exist, because in the construction industry it knows what begins, from geological examination to the project, with all possible performance details, diameter and pre-calculation. If time must be spent, depending on the size and purpose, per year, and perhaps more, to project it, to bring it into order, and to implement the process in the execution and selection of performers under the Public Procurement Act, why would it be hasty to do so in 15 days? It would be fairer and more honorable to adapt the Public Procurement Act to the conditions of this crisis than to derrogate the Public Procurement Act by joining the negotiation process. I'll give you one example. Two objects almost the same squares, almost the same content of construction material, were built at the same time. One of them passed the procurement procedure, the Public Procurement Act was respected, and it cost 100 million dinars. The second, the same facility, which had just avoided a legal procedure on public procurement, cost 200 million dinars. I think it is inadmissible and it must not be forgotten that the negotiation process in its content has corruption, and one example is this one that I have cited. Finally, because of the time that belongs to me, I must point out that the DSS, since it has submitted several key amendments to this law, will determine according to it how the amendments will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42585	Nine minutes have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42586	I will use one part of the time of the parliamentary group to end the discussion that I started in the time of my parliamentary group's authorised representative. The principle observation of this type of subsidized assistance, soft loans, giving some of the budgets that we all charge, is whether there are objective ways to choose those that will be stimulated and whether citizens are familiar with the effects of the funds invested in such projects. I'm responsibly saying no. So, we're not in any budget so far, even though we've already had two in which we have this kind of subsidized credit but for different purposes, we've been given an explanation of the benefits. Because in the economy is the basic principle of mini-max, that with minimal funds we get maximum or at least optimal benefits. The balance of the accounting statement, that on the one hand you have resources, on the other hand the means, that you have balanced giving and effects, is something that we lack as a society. If we have balances where businesses have losses, and their owners have assets that can be properly presented on Forbes's or similar lists, the question arises whether we need NGOs and other organisations to watch over democracy and adopt these laws here, or whether we need fair and seen honorable procedures to record accounting changes. And that's got to go away. They say the worst disease is coming out of your head. The worst are phenomena promoted by the government as negative. If the government doesn't provide us with a report on where the effects of the budget have been used for some purpose, where does it have the right to ask anyone else to do so? So, the subsidized interest on consumer loans, who got the balances and showed success -- business banks, debtors, creditors or citizens? Who goes bankrupt in a financial crisis, state or citizen? How's it going in the world, how's it going with us? And we're asking citizens to support a state that doesn't need to go bankrupt, and we're still giving it the right to choose who it will allow to continue to exist. My question is – who are we going to allow, in accordance with Article 3, to continue to exist? I have a practical suggestion. Since it is the most modern, most intense entertainment to watch on websites of data where you do not have a clear limit between privacy and what is public interest, and everything has become public, I suggest that the government present us with a list of tax debtors, large and respected businessmen, and there are also among construction firms very important, which are listed as the biggest taxpayers for this country. Such reviews represent a sacred secret at a time when we are talking about increasing value added tax, which should allow the state, such a overwhelming, insecure and inefficient, to continue to function according to its wishes. Is one of you willing to promise us that on the lists of those we stimulate production only those who did not have a quality of work advertising, who were not late in accordance with the contract during the work that they had to perform, who provided their workers with helmets and all other equipment in order to protect their health, that they did not pay taxes, but not as the general condition of reconciliation of the tax obligations under the Public Procurement Act says? Is there any law or decision that we're going to start talking about what the real values and the rules of business or the wanks of the construction industry are? Is there some law, some moment, some time? I'm talking about the Public Procurement Act. There are my peers, about 50 or 50 and some years, who know that at a time when there was no Public Procurement Act, but with three offers it was known that you couldn't as CEO of a company with anyone to negotiate a corrupt mechanism of filling your pocket at the expense of the company, because it was known that you were getting an unserviced offer, but were making three offers that meant the market price of some purchases or work done. And what does the form now mean to us, the Law on Public Procurement, which stands on paper and which applies to some others, and for the state should not be valid, so from the purchase of loans from domestic commercial banks, which was done by the Ministry of Finance for the entire government and our consumers of the Ministers, the purchaser in the direct contract of the negotiation process? There are younger ones who don't remember it being a shame to get something more expensive. If there is no market already, today, thank God, anyone on the Internet can, by typing any kind of goods or services, come up with indicative prices, and we lie, looking into our eyes, that we have created savings in public procurement by falsely assessing the value of public procurement at higher or extreme values, then we agree at some lower price, so we say - saving from applying the Public Procurement Act is such. Is there some thing in this country where we don't want to talk about form, we talk about essence and where we're not going to fool ourselves that we've reached some standards, that we're forming into numbers, like saving, and we actually know how much it's crumbling? I think that this law where the state is a place of crisis, even when it's too late, admits, and when it's deliberately overlooked, when it accepts to do one job, and its job is to stimulate the construction industry that is a multiplier for many branches, to do it fairly, but not in the way that you want to do it in Article 7, to even start doing it on these easier terms, without public procurement in the right way that it implies you publicly publish what works you want to do and that everyone can apply to the competition. This would be the least measure of honesty that the state would have to show as an example of a true leader, who does what it thinks is right and who expects everyone else whose country is an example of respect to work in a similar way. No, you're only looking for what you imagined for the future, that you're working as a relief for a felony under a more favourable law, and you're even putting in the last term that this law is valid until the end of next year. Wait, what does it apply to? You start the procedure in terms of ordering a job, and everything you order by 31 December 2011 falls under this law, and since we know how late it is, how much work is being overrun, which is all justified, then the question is whether this law will be able to meet the purpose or this is another example of taking you from one hope to another. Indeed, with all my best intentions, with the desire to accept this late law as a good time, with all the doubts that exist in the professional public, in the executive authority, and to wander from one solution to another, I wonder – are you serious about doing something that will bring good to everyone? We had a situation yesterday to hear that in Canada, in the debate of 20 of the most developed countries, there was disagreement whether spending or saving leads us to exit from the crisis. America thinks it should stimulate consumption, Europe thinks it should save. You're the government, and you have the right to judge it, and no one's disputed your right, but you have to admit that stimulating spending spent billions and billions of dinars in last year's budget, and I'm not citing a precise figure because without the DRI report, we no longer trust you on paper and report until it checks out... Instead of stimulating production from which you can find and pay and profit and rights, real consumption, I'm counting on you to understand at this point and you have the right to start production, but in the way you've designed it with this law, I'm afraid this project is predetermined to failure, and not from those who guard democracy or advocate human rights in some imaginary way, but because I'm afraid that this and this law do not allow what is called basic human freedom - the right to work and to work. That's only one reason the SNS won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42587	11 minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a bill to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. In addition to this law, a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency was to be found on the agenda of this session, however, you are from me and I believe the other MPs of the opposition of unknown reasons have withdrawn this law. It seems to me that in this way you have missed the ideal opportunity to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and combine two points of the agenda. In fact, this law that we are discussing today has common points with this law that you have withdrawn, because the law we are considering will certainly be the subject of corruption, and you will see why. That corruption will occur in the application of this law that we are talking about today is guaranteed by Article 5 of this law, which provides for so-called "the law". negotiation procedure. So, there's no tender, there's a free contract, and it turns out to be a market when two peasants are guessing about buying a cow -- after a long bargaining deal, giving each other a hand, finishing the job, and everyone goes to their side. Of course, I don't want to say that the recovery of the construction industry is not needed by the state of Serbia, on the contrary. But according to what can be concluded by this law, it can be seen that the real benefits of all this will not be the construction industry, the construction operations, but, above all, only individuals. The basic objective of this law should not be to save the construction industry, but to get the country out of the economic crisis and every other crisis that we are deeply in need of. In your reasons for adopting this law, you are calling for statistical reports on GDP developments in the last year, year and a half, more precisely from the moment of the economic crisis. For me, of course, it is not at all disputed that you are referring to these statistical reports of GDP movement, but, at least in the last hundred years, it is clear and clear to all how and how a country can get out of the economic crisis, and that is, above all, the launch of a construction operation. Because when a master takes the mystium into his hands, he, directly or indirectly, engages 17 more different actions. The SRS, of course, has pointed to this before, but you've always been deaf about all our suggestions and forced some of your stories. Unfortunately, we see where this is going and where our economy and our country are going. We have a situation where the government has destroyed almost all major construction firms and now, through this law, in order to help the construction industry, they are first asked to have a large number of employees, so that they meet some reference, and this is a condition for competition for projects that will be supported by this law. You can't ask that some company, which you've choked, now has a large number of employees and that there are references that will be fulfilled in accordance with this law. It's about the same thing as suffocating someone consciously and then, after a while, when he's already dead, you're trying to give him artificial breathing and help to bring him back to life. I'm sure that, say, "Gradjevinar" from Nis, the city from which I come, and not only "Gradjevinar", but similar companies from southern Serbia, and there are plenty of them, perhaps a little bit, if I get some of the jobs that are scheduled for this project, but unfortunately, I'm also sure that "Gradjevinar" from Nis and other businesses from southern Serbia won't be able to get jobs from these projects because they simply can't pull those credit lines, as you like to say, they don't have the support of a number of ministers and powers from the government and, of course, they don't have support in banks. So I would like to point out once again that the SRS has long pointed out this, but you are too late with these measures and not only late, but you are still making a mistake and all of this, unfortunately, will not give the desired effects, at least as you expect and what, of course, the citizens of Serbia expect. For what we're considering today, you didn't even need the law. This could've been done without the law. Of course, I don't mind turning it into legal form, but no one has ever stopped you from doing this. Article 4 lists the facilities whose financing and realization is carried out in accordance with this law, and then lists schools, kindergartens, hospitals, sports facilities, highways, etc. Nothing is disputed, but when you look a little bit more closely at what's going on here, you can immediately notice and the first wave falls into your eyes that there's no mention of bridge construction in this law. Now I really don't understand whether the state of Serbia doesn't need bridges or if the construction of bridges is reserved exclusively for foreigners or foreign companies. I would say, however, that this is another matter, that the construction of bridges is reserved for foreign companies, and we see it through the construction of a bridge on the Danube near Beška, the construction of a bridge on Ada in Belgrade, the future construction of a bridge from Zemun towards Borca, and something similar is happening with the recovery of Gazela, which has already begun and you are talking about very much. In this business, the main carrier is not Belgrade's Bridge, a company whose headquarters is located and whose premises are just below the Gazela Bridge, but the main carrier of the business is someone else. That's how much you care about construction operations and the construction industry. Maybe someone will say it's big bridges, big projects, and we might not be able to do it today, but I don't think that's how it is, and I'm going to prove it. All we can remember is who designed it and who was working on the famous Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad, which even NATO bombers couldn't bring down to the end. It's just one example. Another question can be asked - whether large bridges are designed, alongside construction operations, labour, ordinary or professional, necessary and intellectual resources, intellectual capacities, and I will tell you that we have that, too. Here, the president of the Serbian Academy of Science, Mr. Nikola Hajdin, is now an expert in the area of bridge construction. So you can't even get away with it. It's another very important thing when it comes to bridges. When building bridges, we have at least one relief in this sense, because building bridges almost doesn't require any expropriation. Bridges are built above rivers, more in the air, and they themselves approach bridges, which are necessary, they work in a narrow coastal belt, on land that is mostly owned by the state, so there is no need for expropriation either. There's just one more thing I need to say about Corridor 10. Here comes Mr. Dulic. I repeat that I come from Nis, and Nis represents the main square or main hub of that corridor. Unfortunately, in the part of the Nis Corridor towards the Bulgarian border in the last ten years, almost nothing has been done. In ten years, only ten kilometers from Nis to Proseko was done. Interestingly, three different prime ministers from three different governments opened the course three times. I ask Mr. Dulic when the construction of the direction from Nis towards Sofia, the Bulgarian border, were the funds provided for such a thing, whether the final route of that corridor was defined, and when the construction of the detour around Dimitrovgrad would continue, because a month or two ago you pulled the machines there, took pictures, and the same day it retreated, and everything else was empty. Here, I'm done. I'm gonna have to say one more thing. I'm taking a chance to get off the subject, but I'm going to be very brief. Today's newspaper "Blic" announced news that SRS President Vojislav Seselj allegedly ordered from The Hague the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. I must, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia who are upset, ask if this is what BIA is familiar with, whether or not the MUP is familiar with, and ask them to examine this matter. The SRS will file criminal charges against the editor-in-chief and author of this text, because something like this to a man who consciously placed his head on a log, really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42589	13 minutes of MP time was used. The word is a folk letter from Vesna Pesic, followed by a folk MP, Aleksandar Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42590	I'd like to continue to discuss this law. I must say from some experience, and I was also an MP in the Assembly during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic from 1994 to 1997, believe we never received such a law. If she could go to the Anti-Corruption Agency in the government and say, "What is this doing in the government, how laws are being delivered, can you, Madam Chairman, once create a delegation of the Assembly and we also go to the government and say that these laws cannot be delivered to us?" We have eight members of the law who deny any rule when it comes to using state money, or the money of citizens who have completely destitute. The problem is that we got a law that needs to break all possible rules and put in place a rule that ministers get new discretionary powers when sharing money. It's laws like that. The Development Fund Act. That's what we talked about once. Nothing, a few members, but how it's going to work, it's up to the Fund itself. Then we have a situation where Mr. Dinkic goes to Palic and says, "I'm going to give 150 million here, I'm going to give 50 million here, I'm going to give 30 here." Now Mr. Dulic has taken on such rights as to issue local, construction and use permits. It was very, in my opinion, thoughtless when Minister Dulic was one MP, when he expressed his suspicion that this law was really based on a discretionary law that annuls all the rules, because there is no way to make lists of those who will be allowed to build, nor what are the criteria, the rules have been suspended, above all, in public tenders, local, construction and use permits and can be signed by the minister himself, he said – you have an autopsy on that, since you know how corrupt you are, so you think we are. Mr. Dulic, take any public opinion research, and you'll see what trust citizens have in this government and in the state institutions at all. Every member of this law allows the discretionary right to decide how you come to think of it. So you don't have any restrictions at all, and it's about state money, about citizens' money. The first thing, if you spend your citizens' money on any jobs, and even for this, let's say, to encourage construction work, that law has to be absolutely transparent. Understand that once and for all. You've already had your own problem with the Anti-Corruption Agency. What are you doing here so arrogant when we rightly point out that this law is primarily corrupt, that people will be embezzled, that they will be divided by business on the party line? I ask you, did you come from another planet? Don't you know we live in a party state? Do you know that next year, as all is shared, all credits and everything is shared, how is it supposed to buy elections? You know that elections have now been bought in Bor, you know that local elections have shown that without shame and shame, elections are being bought. You're not from here, you came from somewhere, you didn't hear it. When we point out that there are no rules, because from the first to the last member, you practically break all the rules, you give discretionary rights to decide who will and how this money will benefit (and those who need to control it will be installed there), so if we rightly point out that this law really shouldn't pass, that a congregation delegation should really go and demonstrate to the government what these laws provide, you simply say – that's your autopsy, so you think that, as you are corrupt, everyone else is corrupt. And when did you do something fair? Let's hear the example, see when it was. So when we ask you to work out the criteria, let's see how the lists are made... (President: National MPs, the time of the parliamentary group has been used. )......................................................................................................... If you had given some procedures, at least extraordinary, for this job, I think you should have respected that argument instead of using arrogance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42591	People's MPs, the time at your disposal has been used. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42592	I, Mrs. Pesic, like you, have done everything fair in my life. And, don't, absolutely, that you're an MP and I'm a minister and I'm proposing a law behind which the entire government stands and which should be helped by the construction industry as an opportunity to try to get me involved with any illegal activities ever. My only problem with the Anti-Corruption Agency is that my property card was mispublished. And do not be incorrect, for it now crosses the limits of fine taste and enters a personal insult when you ask me a question – when, for God's sake, have you ever done anything fair? I always and everything... And you mean the government, the whole government? Well, that's also your perception of the government's work, which will ultimately be evaluated by citizens in the elections. But don't use that tone, then. I recognized myself, I think you told me personally, because you told me – otherwise you had a problem with the Anti-Corruption Agency. What kind of problem did I have in my life with the Anti-Corruption Agency? Here, tell me what kind of problem I had with the Anti-Corruption Agency, except I was mispublished a property map a few days ago, which some journalists abused to make me a millionaire, which, of course, is not true. And you all know that. You all know me personally, and you know how I live and what I do. Speaking of the law, all the time you're using a completely wrong thesis, which is that there will be no control over the spending of state money. We don't allow there to be control of the spending of state money. We won't allow it. This law will not allow uncontrollable spending of state money. On the contrary. This law not only calls for members of the law that define public procurement, which have their own procedures and their own criteria, but will now allow to define maximum, or minimum prices, so that there is no dumping, on the one hand, and that there are no abuses at local level. If there are, let's control them. Let's make sure the state authorities that are supposed to be doing this check-in, give their opinion and the court on each individual public procurement. As for the sublegal acts to be passed, I read to you on several occasions that we care about making these kinds of criteria to define which companies can participate and which projects can be financed. It's true that the government took it upon itself. And how do you think we put the criteria in the law to define whether a school is being built in Leskovac or a home of health is being built in Surdulica? How do you propose we put that in law? It is here that, respecting regional specificities, while respecting the need for the construction industry in Serbia's territory to rise, not only are companies in large cities being saved, but small cities being helped, to help local self-government. The government won't decide which projects they're going to be. It's a completely incorrect thesis that this is now centralised because the government is deciding which projects will be. Local self-government will run for projects. The city of Surdulica will say – we care about so many projects, of these projects a certain part of the money goes there. The city of Kraljevo says - we need it, it's okay, there's money, now you can build it. The procedure that will be defined will mean that construction firms from that city can participate, at the maximum prices that we will estimate. So it's just that in this business that the construction operation is doing, there's not going to be any profit. It'll be a minimum profit. It is necessary that during a period defined by this law, it is limited and it is an anti-crisis measure, as far as the crisis is concerned, we establish a construction operation. We don't have any other way. The state must be an investor and the state must take one of these measures. I agree with you that this may be something that is not typical, it's very specific and it may come out of the context of some of the declared policies that existed before, but this is a necessary need to save a vital sector in which there are hundreds of thousands of people working. So that's what we have as a situation and this is the only way we can go with it. I ask only one thing, and I ask all the MPs of the people, there is no need to insult ourselves personally. So don't accuse me. If you've got something against the government, go ahead. And it's natural that opposition MPs have something against the government, but don't look at me now and project any doubts about any future things that will happen. Let's fight corruption together by tracking, hiring and encouraging state authorities to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42593	National MP Vesna Pesic is registered in the electronic system. You've used your time. The Minister, as a People's Parliament, has asked you nothing, absolutely. [[Vesna Pesic: I'm looking for a replica. Since he asked me, I have to answer.]] Vesna Pesic: Yes, he asked me. Please don't throw it away. (Judita Popovic: He misread it. ) So there is no basis for replica, but in the interest of clarification, okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42594	It's really not true that I told you personally. It wasn't about you personally, I just said that you were insinuating one fellow MP that his autopsy, that he now knows from his own experience, if he thinks they were dishonest, that everyone else is unfair. So you're the first one to say one thing that might have been wrong. All I said to you was that you made the mistake of putting up with... That's what happened in the paper. So you were wrong, and that's why you should have been punished. So that can happen. The only thing we insist on here, sir, all the time, is that if you remove all the criteria and all the rules that are possible, and in order to reduce our discretionary decision-making, and to avoid our suspicions, which are not unwarranted, so I ask you if you came from another planet, is that it's absolutely impossible for these people to be implanted, that they're going to be divided on the party line, I was just looking for an additional argument about this law to see how we're going to provide ourselves with such opportunities. That's not what you've been suffering for, practically, one of the same criticism for three hours. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42595	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42596	Let's immediately clarify the question you asked about the Ministry's jurisdiction to issue the permits. I read to you Article 6 and I ask you to listen carefully to it: "A local, construction and use permit, or other acts in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction for the Implementation of Projects referred to in Article 1 of this Act, shall be issued by the authority designated by the Law on Planning and Construction (it is local self-government), and may be issued by the Ministry responsible for works of construction, if the competent authority does not issue those acts within the prescribed time limit". It is no secret that there are cities in Serbia that need a very long time to issue these acts. We need an emergency measure, to happen immediately, and we don't have time to wait for some local self-government institutions where it takes a very long time to issue a permit to issue a permit, it is. This law allows the competent ministry to take over those tasks when the deadline otherwise provided for by law expires. And it wasn't in the Planning and Construction Act. We have no measure to speed up the procedure in local self-government to issue permits. If there was, believe me, I'd apply it. But it doesn't exist. Now, for these needs, for the needs of urgency, because of the crisis in construction, we will, believe me, use that measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42597	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic, and after him, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42598	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, representatives of the ministry, reading the reasons for the law on the promotion of the construction industry, we have seen that there are several goals. One of the goals is to encourage a construction operation by opening new jobs. We're pleased, Mr. Minister, that you've recognized exactly the DSS program in terms of the economic crisis. In fact, we have just put one of the pillars of development and assistance to the citizens of Serbia on the subject, i.e. to help the construction industry. Can we continue, Mr. Minister? So we're glad you recognized the DSS program. In fact, the government only came forward on June 3rd, when it adopted such a proposal at its session, saying that the government has been doing a verse, nothing planned. In addition to this discussion of mine, it also says that we are passing the law in the course of the construction season, Mr. Minister, and the law can only be applied entirely at the end of the construction season, which means that we will not apply this law until next year. Normally, this law is prone to affairs, and it is to corruption affairs, because the government regulates this law by certain regulations. The crown member of this law is Article 5. He talks about how to choose performers, about how to elect supervisory authorities. You suggested here a negotiation procedure without a public call, which we think is bad enough. In this way you discriminate against certain companies, favour companies that are close to the government, and the government itself, as I said, makes regulations and creates this law. In the government itself, there are a number of ministers, including the prime minister, who have actions in certain companies, and thus raises doubts that they can set up certain jobs for themselves. The second thing, in Article 4, where projects are talked about and project financing, about certain facilities, about road infrastructure, we asked to fit railways, because the tracks themselves are part of Corridor 10. Mr. Minister, in Leskovac, where I come from, we have a problem with the Predeans. You know, a delegation from Leskovec came to you a few times, offering you an idea solution that is five million euros cheaper than the existing one. We don't have the answers to those questions. In fact, we asked for the railway to be removed, to create a loop to enter the Predejane Motel. If that loop isn't made, and we don't have an answer, then the Predeans and that whole neighborhood will be a dead letter on paper. We don't expect that to happen, but we expect, Mr. Minister, to get a concrete answer from you whether an idea and a major project for going out to the Predejana motel is made, which is also important for us in southern Serbia, because if that doesn't happen, the citizens of Predejan will try to apply for a Stabilisation Agreement to receive Predejana under the auspices of Serbia. It's also surprising, Mr. Minister, that you had this law laid down by 2011. It is amazing, since we believe this economic crisis will last much longer than 2011. There may be two reasons why you handed down this law by 2011. The first reason is that you are aware that this government will last, using these mechanisms and measures, by 2012, and the second reason is that you think there are no more agreements in this government and that by 2011 companies that are close to the government's establishment can take advantage of these privileges and privileges that you give them by this law and prepare for the next elections, i.e. parties from the ruling coalition. The DSS will push forward in the future for the development of the construction industry, for the development of a construction operation, for the creation of new jobs. However, what I object to you, Mr. Minister, is that this should all be transparent and public, and not under the authority of secrecy, not that the government regulates the sublaw of this law. In the hope that you will reconsider your decision regarding this law, we expect you to withdraw this bill, to bring it in line with the Public Procurement Act, since we already have that law. In case that doesn't happen, we have submitted a number of amendments that and how they change the text of the law. We expect you to analyze them and adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42599	Five minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Zoran Babic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42600	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must point out the sincere recognition that the legislator has made in the reasons for the adoption of this law, which is that the reasons for the adoption of this law are reflected in the fact that the global economic crisis has affected the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia and the most construction industry. Bravo! After more than two years, you realize we're in a crisis. And this is not the first time that dissonant tones are heard from different ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who have gone from loud statements that the crisis will not touch us, that from the crisis and the crisis we will only profit from, through Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's statement that we are statistically out of the crisis but that citizens will still not feel it, until you admit that the crisis is shaking us badly. Mr. Minister, I really don't doubt your personal good intentions to help the construction industry. But I'm sure that even with this law, as with the sea of previous laws that we've adopted here, we'll just raise a media campaign and nothing more. Because I would like you to explain to me how this law will apply in my Vrnjačka Banja, given the decision on the general arrangement of Vrnjačka Banja, which was brought by the local self-government in which the government is acting in the DS, where Article 83 of that decision clearly states: "It is forbidden to perform land and rough construction works in the extra and first zone in the period from 1 July to 31 August. "If it is known that 80% of buildings are built in an extra and first zone, if it is known that due to weather opportunities construction operations do not work or work with reduced capacity three to four winter months and with this labour ban during July and August, how do you think this construction industry and these construction firms in practice and survival? How can they survive if they work half a year, and half a year you forbid them or face millions of fines? How do you think these employers pay their employees if they can't work six months a year? Also local self-government in Vrnjačka Banja, in which I repeat, the government makes DS, made a decision on 5 October 2009 saying in Article 5, "It is forbidden to move motor vehicles whose total mass exceeds five tonnes in the populated town of Vrnjačka Banja in the extra and first zone." This decision does not have a time scale, there is no time limit until it lasts. How do you think you help the construction industry in practice when you force these companies to drive maltenes by a construction cart, sand, concrete and construction material? Because what concrete mixer weighs less than five tons? And, this is not a political story, this is a practice, this is a life, because here is a list of entrepreneurs who have been asking for more than a year to abolish and discriminate against local self-government, and, of course, nothing. Then how is this construction operation going to work at all? I suppose this law that we are adopting today also has a lex specialis nature, because it abolishes the Public Procurement Act, so I ask you, Mr. Minister, whether this law will abolish the disputed provisions of the General Regulation of Vranjska Banja. I would also ask you whether the construction industry will be encouraged in terms of the economic crisis if the tax on technical reception of buildings greater than 150 square meters per metre of square meters, such as in Vrnjačka Banja, is sometimes a more expensive technical overview of objects that are legalised than legalisation itself. Since a large number of Serbian citizens are existentially related to the construction industry, for the construction sector, I urge you once again to make sure that this law does not remain just a dead letter on paper and not only serves as a media campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42601	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you could hear the SRS' position when it comes to this law on the incentive of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia. We're specifically against him. This law should never have come into congregation procedure at all, because, Mr. Minister, it is nothing personal, but many of the laws that have been passed here in the Assembly have not convinced us that the Government has good intentions, that it has the intention to help our citizens, our businesses and our businesses. The hastyness of this law goes hand in hand and the fact that there was no public debate. On several occasions, you said that there were many problems in the construction industry too, that there were above all public procurement, that many companies, or contractors, were somehow even blackmailing them. It's just amazing. What did you do to stop it? We have the Anti-Corruption Agency, although it is also proof that the government has treated the Anti-Corruption Agency. We know how long she couldn't start working. Now, when it started to work, when it came to some factual conditions, it found irregularities, simply, for various reasons, and apparently this government had a great influence, only criminal charges were filed. The law on planning and construction will not help businesses that have been in serious trouble since 2000. You know how many of our construction companies that used to be proud, worked extremely well, were profitable, how many workers they hired, and today simply don't work. That's why we think this law will not apply to the entire construction industry, because many will not be able to get the privilege of getting these subsidies, although the question of where the money comes from and for this. You said the banks were willing to borrow, but I'm telling you that many companies are already in so much obligation now that they won't even be able to compete, to enter a tighter circle, because they have bigger obligations to the banks. I know you're going to say that there are opportunities and reprogrammes, but they're simply not going to have anything to pawn in that reprogramme so they can get the funds and participate in a fair competition that you're allegedly trying to defend. But when the public procurement of this law loses its meaning and when it's allowed you directly to deal with potential investors, it always leads us to doubt, and we think there's going to be a lot of abuse. There are many examples that big jobs get certain companies, even if they have references to the terms and conditions when it comes to paying. And there's a lot, because we have a parallel government in Vojvodina, and you probably already know, I hope, how the Capital Investment Fund works, how they work on designing projects, how they choose investors -- that it goes with fast procurement. Simply, what you were saying, that local self-government should work on spatial plans and that a large number of municipalities are working on building spatial and urban plans, on general regulation, the Fund does not respect it. The projects were done in time, the contractor was selected, everything was done by procedure, all the permits were obtained, and we came into a situation for the people from the Fund to come directly to the Municipality and say – you have to break up the contract with the contractor who performs the sewerage, which changes your travel infrastructure, the Fund will choose the contractors. The Serbian Radical Party justifiably doubts the fair approach to implementing the law. This law will serve exclusively for political purposes, primarily in pre-election campaigns. You know very well what is promised and doing in election campaigns. I'll remind you only of the pre-election campaign in Odzac on January 24th, when it was paved to minus 15, Mr. Minister. We tried to react, let's say -- don't, people, projects exist, it'll be done when time allows, this won't last two months. We simply didn't come to an understanding. One part of the funds went out of your ministry when it came to the dump's recovery. As far as I'm aware, there was no tender. These dumps are done, but the figures that are said to have been obtained, believe that 20% of what was done on the ground may be satisfying in some way that investment. That's all the reasons we suspect you won't pay attention to those firms that need it. In Article 3, you say companies will be able to employ a significant number of workers according to their technological capacities, and according to the criteria to be established by a special government act. I'm asking you what happened to workers in the construction industry who lost their jobs. You also promised 300,000 jobs in the election campaign, while 500,000 jobs were lost. So much for how consistent you are. In Article 5, you have, as I told you, that in the process of selecting a designer, performer of technical control, contractor of works, the contracting authority within the meaning of this law may be the competent ministry, the competent authority of the autonomous province or the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, i.e. the company referred to in Article 3(1) of this Act. This is what I was just telling you about, that the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina has absolutely abused its purpose. I've been asking questions here a few times whether any control, Mr. Minister, had ever come to the Capital Investments Fund and exercised control of the spending of funds. Of course, I never got the answer, and you know why. Because some of the municipalities in Vojvodina, a particular circle is tremendously privileged and the works are being carried out, and the municipalities that have been doing quality work on designing projects cannot reach these funds. Now in this election campaign in Odzac on January 24th, the province's secretariats and the Fund signed protocols for over two billion. Do you know what's been done so far? Nothing, Mr. Minister. Absolutely nothing. And projects have been in existence for two years in the Fund, and in many ministries here in the Republic, for about four billion. We have done everything on our own, however, there is simply no understanding. And he wasn't in first place because in the past five years in the municipality of Ojaci SRS he was in charge. That's what we're convinced of. What is sad is that, despite all your pre-election promises, you will do absolutely nothing, which is why we have no valid reason to believe you, Mr. Minister, that this law will be implemented and that it will do better for our construction industry, like not many of the laws that we have criticised and we have tried to explain that it will not do any better and that, ultimately, it will not apply. Now you have a chance to show that we are possibly wrong and that we are wrong. We were explicitly against the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Public Information. Today, in the "Blic" list, a false text was published in which Dr Vojislav Seselj of The Hague allegedly ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. The text caused great anxiety and the Serbian Radical Party is asking BIA Director Sasa Vukadinovic and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic to examine it. We will certainly file a criminal report to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office against the author of the mentioned text in "Blic" for false news that caused public harassment, with a request for the prosecution to react urgently and we will see how the judicial authorities will react. Certainly, the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, will file a private suit against the authors of the text and the editor-in-chief "Blica" for the defamation of the crime. It is also to press charges for damages, according to the Public Information Act, against the editor-in-chief and the author-in-chief of the "Blic" list. We'll see if you can apply the law. We have criticised here and the Law on Electronic Communications. We said that MPs of the SRS have absolutely no problem when it comes to listening. This is your chance to show your consistency and respect the law. We're just asking for the truth to come out. Mr. Minister, the reason the SRS feels that this law should not have entered the procedure is, above all, financial nature. We take credits to cover the budget deficit, and certainly there are still economic branches in which help is needed, it is certainly necessary for the construction industry, but not in this way that you have foreseen. I'll just remind you that this government has cut the agricultural budget by nine billion. We absolutely know what kind of situation agriculture is in, where many things are now related to you. Here, first of all, I mean the floods that hit us and the weather accidents. Could the "Serbian Water" and "Vojvod's Waters" have responded in an adequate way, given that they've been collecting income for years, that they're setting up the dikes, not that we're in a situation that must be one-third of our fertile orans underwater? As far as I know, the Department of Agriculture has absolutely not called. We are convinced that this is not a good relationship, first of all, to our citizens, that this law, Mr. Minister, has no support, and we hope, frankly, that you will withdraw it from the procedure. But if you have 126, and we have no doubt that you will not and we believe that you will vote him, you will see that we have made correct amendments. I hope you'll consider them and at least how much of an improvement in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42603	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42604	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is generally known that raising the construction industry directly or indirectly takes place between 20 and 30 other branches, and one new job on the site means four more in the accompanying works. Today we have here a bill to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia in terms of the economic crisis, something that, at least on the basis of the title, could be found to be very useful and logical in the times in which we live. But this is also a bill containing only eight members and which should solve the accumulated problems, such as, among other things, the fact that the average payment time in the construction industry is 158 days, that the state owes more than 100m euros to businesses from that branch, that the debts of private investors and over two hundred million euros, and that it is particularly problematic that the state has not yet paid off debts for the jobs carried out in the previous two or three years and, according to the builders themselves, it benefits its position as the main investor in the area of low-building benefit for the long term of payments. On the other hand, sales of business and housing financed by private investors fell by 50%. In addition, the data that is certainly worrying is that the construction industry is burdened by the fact that during 2009 and in the first quarter of this year, in 2010, nearly 52,000 jobs were lost, and those constantly employed and part-time workers. The problem certainly also represents the fact that work on black has been significantly increased, especially by hiring illegal Bulgarian, Romanian, Macedonian workers in eastern, middle and southern Serbia, and for builders who had no bigger jobs for months or had difficulty in keeping such payments and falling into order, the average burden of 63% on earnings was too high to keep dozens and hundreds of non-working workers employed for months. In the past and in the first quarter of this year, nearly 850 companies in this sector were shut down, but also thousands of small enterprises, entrepreneurs and craftsmen who were practically tightly closed to a branch of construction because they perform services and less work for medium and larger construction companies. With all this in mind, and even when a draft law on the promotion of the construction industry is reviewed, it is clear that the new law on support for the construction industry favours only large construction firms and, as colleagues have already pointed out, create a space for corruption. For the public, this bill has nothing to do with any capital projects. It mainly refers to work funded by the NIP, which is the construction of schools, buildings and the like, which is of course not capital business in which there is money and which could raise an operation. Also, tendering for capital facilities will continue to be conditioned, so only foreigners will be able to meet them in practice. The bill also contains several provisions that are not properly defined. One of them is certainly that the Serbian government will set criteria that must meet companies that want to participate in tenders. What we have as a bill today will be difficult to implement in practice, because the state, if it wants to bring its impact on construction activities down to guaranteeing in the financial part, then it can be expected to make some progress, not just through the adoption of certain legal, sublegal acts, free land, etc. So if there are no substantial changes in this economic branch, it is clear that during this year another number of construction companies will be shut down. The biggest problem for domestic enterprises, which will absolutely not be regulated by such a bill, is the fact that they will not be able to compete for the construction of state projects such as, in particular, the construction of the settlement "The Fourth of July" or in any other similar tender, because they are essentially indivisible. The ministry of spatial planning announced that in August, it will launch the largest construction site in Serbia and start building a settlement at the site of the "Fourth of July" on Vozdovac and that job, but only according to announcements, should revive construction and employ a complete domestic operation. However, the fact is that at the moment, as many as 70% of domestic companies cannot compete for this job because they are indivisible. If we want to look objectively at the problem, it is the beginning of last year, when the impact of the global economic crisis began to reflect investments in Serbia as well. Large private projects have been hitched, some have not strayed from the requirements for a building permit, and currently, as everyone knows, they are only working on some of the most important priority infrastructure projects. The problem was further increased because no single building permit has been issued since September of last year, until today in Belgrade, in the capital, which runs the most investment in Serbia. I don't want to get into the story of whether it had anything to do with the sale of apartments in the Bellville neighborhood or whether something else intervened, only construction companies had entered into more and more debt to banks, they didn't realize the projects, of course the loans had to be paid off, and because of that, today a large number of enterprises are invaluable. It is clear that for this reason they cannot even participate in tenders, major projects in the country. It is clear, therefore, that only foreigners continue to work, and the involvement of foreign companies only increases the price of work by 30-40%, which ultimately reflects on end-users, i.e. real estate buyers. The problem is they don't work design houses or material producers, which means there's no investment in sight. Everybody, practically, is running away from construction. And what fate has happened to our largest domestic enterprises - "Comgrap", "Energoproject", "Forward", "Planum", "Partisan Road" - it is clear to all that they have no business at all or work with some symbolic 10-20% capacity. One of the key problems, which I repeat, is not solved by such a bill, it is also the fact that companies are asking for large funds from the state. There have been certain attempts, indications that this problem will be resolved by the state's compensation of debts. However, it is clear that this would trigger a major budget deficit, and the state is avoiding it and the proposal has dropped. But I repeat, according to estimates of the Chamber of Commerce, it only owes around 100m euros to larger companies in the name of the works carried out. Why is it generally such a policy, given that many countries have practically introduced protectionist measures that protect domestic economy, to regulate the appearance of foreign businesses, and in this area the situation is absolutely unregulated, or unregulated? One way to get the company out of the crisis is certainly to use a project financing programme, i.e. regulation of the market by supporting subsidized housing loans, etc. Also, there was a proposal, which unfortunately did not come across the understanding by the ministry's competent authorities, etc., in terms of the formation of a guarantee fund or a joint venture, a stock company, in which the state would invest some 50% and a certain number of construction firms left over by 5%. Data are very worrying when it comes to the size of business and in low construction, about the export of domestic building materials, and about high construction almost doesn't matter, so it's obvious that it's completely dead. The problem we are facing is that construction is now only 3% of the country's GDP compared to the previous 10% and, as we could hear, the number of employees decreased from year to year and is moving today to some hundreds of thousands of people, given that summer and season. Therefore, all these Serbian construction firms that survived both the turbulent 1990s and survived after privatisation also face the problem of outdated technology, equipment, lack of trade capital, etc., and all of which, of course, significantly reduces their competitiveness in getting a job despite the frequent drop in service prices. The financial exhaustion of domestic construction companies is worsened also by taking short-term loans from banks, reducing investments due to the global economic crisis and builders are becoming increasingly difficult to service their commitments, and banks rarely approve new loans to those for whom they estimate to be difficult to maintain liquidity, even with relatively high interest. These high interest rates are due to Serbia's unfavourable credit rating, i.e. Risk insurance, which collects the price of capital acquisition on the foreign market. In Serbia, some analyses suggest that construction operations are expected to be carried out worth around 20 billion euros in the near future. So, quite a number and similar projects, but I say again, we are facing some objective problems, that we have such a bill that essentially will not contribute to the resolution of any of them and, of course, what remains as a major issue of regulatory and tendering conditions, because it is clear that the current tenders in the beginning eliminate domestic companies. There were concrete proposals to help make the situation as easy as possible. At the meetings of the Committee on Industry of the Serbian Parliament, we had proposals concerning tax policies in this branch, by charging the value added tax on paid realisation, not on negotiated, or invoiced jobs. Unfortunately, the big world names from the construction sector, and you also have an example of the withdrawal from Serbia of the French "Vinchi constructive", bypass Serbia, and this should probably be a signal to the state to make a significant adjustment, change the business environment, and not only that there is a desire, as the people's dictionaries would say, to take the money at speed. What has also been discussed for a long time, and what appears to be based on the functioning of this bill, on these sublaws and regulations, and so on. The guillotine regulations still haven't done much on that plan, so it practically comes down to the state as the biggest indifference generator in business. So, some three key developments, where investors in Serbia should continue to insist and lay down some of their business definitions, are infrastructure, property and construction areas, both human resources and the labour market. One of the more important things is that Serbia thinks and makes it possible to reduce tax burdens, as it is known that a new apartment today in Serbia is taxed at an 8% rate in purchases, while the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to the old apartment is 2.5%. This is only part of what I wanted to point out when it comes to the proposal for a law to encourage the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia in terms of the economic crisis, which draws the conclusion that we simply do not believe in the concrete application of such a law, just as we do not believe in these shameful texts published today in the newspaper "Blic" on the alleged ordering of the killing of Nikolic by SRS President Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42605	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42606	Thank you. We do not doubt the good will of the minister, we believe that he had a good intention when he proposed this law and our objections are not in that sense, but we think that the law is insufficient and that the problems that the construction industry is now facing are very large. Article 2 where retail negative effects of the economic crisis are said to be resolved, domestic construction companies will be employed and there will be a possible increase in employment, is very ambitiously written and we think it is more than unrealistic. I'll list a lot of examples that show that. Our complaint regarding Article 4 is that, if it is already taxed in seven views that will be built, then why is it not stated that in this sense, factories and businesses can be built, which, however, you will admit, greatly improve industrial production. It is also explained in the light of the law, and what we believe to be one of the key shortcomings in this law, that construction companies based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia can participate in the realisation of these projects. We think this should have been much clearer, that the emphasis should have been placed on the ownership of businesses in terms of the ownership of Serbian citizens, natural and legal persons etc. As Mr Stevanovic said before me, this is also controversial and at least 70% of the necessary construction material, because we believe that, at the very least, it should have been a higher percentage, because we are responsible for saying that EU construction companies are forced on this market, that they have a monopoly, and that is particularly true of construction companies from Austria. You'll notice it's a land that not only admitted so-called land. Kosovo, there is already a monopoly on the financial market, i.e. Most banks are right out of that country. Data and facts show it's true. In August 2009, the Alpine won, you must know that, the Kokin Brod section – Nova Varosh of 11 kilometers, it's somewhere around 427 million dinars. Under the contract, it took a year for the job to be completed and, of course, the European Investment Bank was in the background, which it apparently conditioned, and this is not the first time that the Alpina got the contract. It's more than absurd that the Uzice Roads company just worked on that stock and did it from the border with that city to the border with Montenegro about 80km, if I'm not mistaken, and it's completely illogical for a company like the Užice Roads, which has made seven bridges on that section, not to get to do those 11km. It's particularly unclear on what criteria "Alpine" has better subcontractors and performers than "The Road of Užica". As you must know, after that, the Alpina, for who knows which time, failed to honor that deadline and the Uzice Roads finally got that route to do it. In our public it was published in 2009, and it is no secret, that it is three huge companies that dominate not only on the Serbian market. These are "Strbag", which has a turnover of 13.74 billion euros annually and 78,000 employees, the second is "Alpine", which has a turnover of 3.5 billion euros and 15,300 employees and the third is "Pore", also an Austrian firm, with 3.1 billion euros and 12,000 employees. If the minister tries to convince me or our parliamentary group that these companies can be equal on the Serbian market with our businesses, which do not have any state support, we will say it is more than unrealistic. In Serbia, in particular, Alpina and Por have a monopoly. For example, Por has some 160m euros in Serbia's projects alone, and is more than known for the Sava bridge project via Ade. The European Bank is behind this again, which pushes companies from Austria. Also, Por also got its way from Surcin, a more accurate 28km tour to the Bubanj stream, it is about 20m euros, it has been given the Batajnica-Golubinci railway, then has two concessions in Leskovec, if I am not mistaken, and the total income in Serbia was 25m euros for 2009, in the context of a situation where you also agree that our construction companies are failing, that there is growing unemployment etc. It is also no secret that Por is expecting a 50m-euro income this year. It's just amazing that the state allows such a monopoly position. It's also more than embarrassing, I have to use that term, that "Pore" in April 2009, it's public data and it came out in all our media, without any permission from the city, by the Republic, raised an asphalt base in the Bubanj stream on a 15-hectare surface. It's embarrassing and it shows, I'm going to use that expression, the neocolonial mentality of these Austrian companies. Another company from Austria, the Alpina, as you know, has been present since 2001 on our market and has received 400m-euro projects. Imagine what that would mean for our construction companies. It is particularly embarrassing that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which apparently has the strength of a parallel institution in Serbia, insisted that the "Alpine" receive a bridge reconstruction project at Beška and build a new one, though known, and that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, that the Bridge has just built that bridge near Beska. It's simply incomprehensible and there's no excuse for that. This third Austrian firm I listed is buying road companies from Pancheva, Zaječar and Chačka. We believe that you should have consulted the profession, particularly those people who work in the field, and in this sense I quote Goran Rodic, secretary of the Committee on Construction in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who literally said a year ago that "new companies are getting jobs for their headquarters. If the tenders continue to call, we builders will be choked in two or three years' time. Therefore, it is completely unclear why the deadline for the application of this law is so short, because it is obvious that the maltenes are now being solved by the fate of our construction industry. Also, Mr Rodic said (so he is from the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia) that in two or three years, foreigners, precisely because of these methods I have mentioned, will raise the prices of their works by 30-40%. It is again one consequence of the monopoly, the consequence of dumping, which you are fighting and it is written in the law, but we think we still need to look at what the real reality is, and the real reality is that Austrian firms are doing whatever they want on this market. Mr. Rodic states that those from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce have asked that the law regulate the appearance of foreign construction companies and that Serbian operations are no longer a subcontractor, but a partner. That's the basis, which is just being avoided in this law, for raising our construction industry. It is especially embarrassing that the "Alpine" in March 2010 (and this is a kind of affair that is being silenced in our public and precisely in these pro-Western media such as "Blic", which invents these incomprehensible lies such as this one today for the alleged assassination of Mr Nikolic) has been chosen, allegedly, to perform the works of a bypass around Dimitrovgrad. In that sense, it's completely unclear and I don't see any rational answer to how is it possible that the Alpina participates in some tenders at all if it leads to a dispute before trade arbitration in Paris? It is completely unclear and shows the incomprehensible inertness of our authorities. As for these bypasses and the roads financed by the World Bank, the Roads Agency said the costs are higher by 30-40% because the World Bank has just insisted on using methods that are much more expensive. So you see one harmonised policy of the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and these companies from Western Europe, above all from Austria. It is quite unclear, too, that the "Alpine" somewhere in February 2010 froze the arbitration dispute I talked about earlier, to put pressure on the Serbian government and to hide it from our public that it had just broken the deadlines for the Beška bridge and did not meet all the provisions of the contracts agreed with the Serbian government. It is quite unclear that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not support domestic construction companies and that they must perform independently in other markets where they only have a pass, which is the Russian Federation market. I'm sure you know, as far as the Sochi Winter Olympics is concerned, it's about construction works worth $30 billion, which is equal to the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. However, there "The Roads of Uzice" performs without any help and, instead of being protected by the state in this market and, with one kind of support, allowing them to participate in the biggest tenders, in the largest works in the Russian Federation, we have come to the situation that after 20 years of the fact-finding Serbian construction firms, in the Russian Federation today you have a sad fact that some other companies, not some other countries, are taking over the market, which is one of the fastest growing in Europe and the world. These are our principled remarks, and I think you should respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42607	I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Zivkov. Would you like to sign up so I can give you my word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42608	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have the Civil Engineering Act, which is supposed to help and extract construction, which is in a very difficult situation regarding survival and survival. It is interesting that today the minister has told us everything that we have long ago located, that the public works of this country would first draw us out of the crisis, since public works in construction are a big wheel and a motor that would start absolutely, which is still confirmed by the minister, 30 and some dams that depend on construction or are connected to construction. If you had applied the SRS programme a long time ago, construction certainly wouldn't have come into this situation. Today, we can only talk about the causes that occurred long ago and the consequences that occurred in construction, why and why. The SRS and I suspect you've heard that from the MPs who spoke today about this law, that this law will make a major shift in construction. I doubt it because it is a very short period in which this law will be applied to save what has been ruined for so many years and has been done so many years back with a construction operation and in general with construction, which, of course, has pulled the metal complex. I didn't accidentally say a metal complex, because construction has pulled behind it to sink many of the dams that are related to construction, just like you want this law to encourage it. There's a lot to talk about, but I'd say only a few of the main causes that have brought construction into this situation. One, I'd like to quote a privatization that has been carried out in the first place with regard to construction firms and construction operations. Privatisation was done in such a way that travel firms and construction firms involved in the business were bought by people who only had money and didn't do the job, and of course they ruined a good deal of these construction firms and operatives in Serbia. Many people lost their jobs in such a way and many other branch companies who were tied to the company and such firms went down. This could be cited as the main one, which I have heard and I am commenting to the MPs today who have defended the Public Procurement Act, that this law will ruin it. He's going to ruin public procurement that's been misimplemented. There could certainly have been a better situation if order had been made in public procurement. Public procurement is public in itself, and it is also a secret that tenders have been placed on public procurement and that they have received companies of various profiles dealing with construction only because they were close authorities or wanted to enter into a tender or in a project that only they possess so that only they could compete. It's a public secret that this is happening at the level of public procurement and tendering that was carried out in construction construction day and day. Before moving to tax policy, the Commission could also add to the procurement of public procurements, for a simple reason – if the job was not given to the bidder who was to receive it, if it was not set up and passed in the Commission for public procurement, the next procedure was to complain to the Commission for the protection of the right of the bidder whether the point or line or the interpretation was not good, there were cases like that, and then the Commission occupied two, three, four, five months (that is you, ministers, today), and in the meantime, while the Commission for the protection of the rights of the bidders had not solved the problem, lost both local self-government and state and performers and all those involved in such transactions. I could say that tax policy is a very significant cause of VAT. Of the many ministries that should be involved to help the ministry is also the finance ministry. Absolutely, the VAT Act is inadmissible, i.e. is not charged adequately as it should be, and especially in construction. The invoices are huge, as far as big projects are concerned. For large complexes, such as touring companies, high-building etc., huge invoices that the state or the Fund for Development or the Fund for Capital Investments in the Region need payments, and the funds are empty. The contractor or owner of the company must pay VAT to the State regardless of the charge. In most cases, VAT was paid by providing bank loans to contractors who came into such a situation, raising loans to pay VAT or pay salaries, etc., and away from the realization that the state had to meet towards construction firms that remained perhaps closed today and had to fire workers in order to survive. We also have a case where companies and big complexes that deal with these kinds of jobs can't stop, absolutely. The guarantee gives them the state to survive – go to the bank and pick up on these terms and credits, and you will repay the loan when we pay for the performance work. Meanwhile, the contractor loses interest that the bank must pay, which, of course, gave credit under unfavourable conditions, because today there are interest rates on loans that are due to certain companies that cannot survive without the loan of the green, except for large complexes, which use European loans where, of course, the state gives them guarantees. But interest is interest, no matter what. I'd like you to say, Minister, at the end of the day how much the state owes to a construction operation, whether it's a low-building or a high-rise construction. That's an interesting piece of information. The SRS believes the state is the biggest debtor, as far as construction operations are concerned, and it is also the biggest culprit that the construction operation has come into this situation. We have another very interesting situation where, by causing political crises in various local self-governments and frequent local emergency elections, construction operations have been misused. Companies that are close to the ruling coalition and ministries dealing with these affairs must go and do and finish the work promised to local authorities by ministers who go there and on the stands to give political speeches -- where citizens complain that their path is bad, there will be no road, where there will be no halls, there will be halls. In such a way, the construction operation is driven into debt and in debt, with later, I don't know how, but by some contract, it achieves the price. When you take the project and the real market price of all the works that are related to the building, there are far more prices either per square meter or per second unit than is done on the spot or done in practice. Certain companies, as I said, are obliged not to stop, that they can't close, work even below the price, of course with an even greater dubiosis for the reason they have to override those interest-codes they're in charge of. In this law I read that there could be a reprogramme of such situations, i.e. credits where the builders were forced to take them, which might be one way to get the construction out of the crisis, but I doubt that with such a reprogramme and so much resources construction without a state will be able to get out of a crisis like this. When you look at the second part, where the metal complex is closely connected to construction, it's absolutely uncontrollable import of construction machines. We had a company that was involved in the production of construction machinery, which deals with freight vehicles, such as "FAP" Priboj, and then "14th October" Kruševac, and the great reason is that in construction it is allowed companies to uncontrollably import construction machines freaks, i.e. destroy domestic production. Absolutely from every minister now we can hear – domestic production, domestic performer, domestic investor, etc. This is used in a very ugly context - our companies dealing with production or performance work can only be subcontractors in large investments. Interestingly, they can't be the lead performer, and they can be a subcontractor. What difference does it make when our company as a subcontractor has to submit absolutely all the documentation exactly the same as the contractor does? I don't see why our domestic company can't be the bearer of such a business. And we've heard here, so I don't repeat, how much in earlier times our construction firm has been recognized in the world, what projects they've been building around the world and what they could do here. But it's something else. Another objection to this law is that it's a very short period. So, the SRS absolutely believes that such a law and this project to accelerate construction will not bear fruit and that it is a short period of time for construction to return to its feet. I haven't read the fines anywhere. I don't see that you could sanction the abuse of this law. In the end, I would just like to say that the SRS is convinced that, in earlier times, Dr Vojislav Seselj spoke in various stands, in the media, on several occasions, public works are the only way to solve the crisis in the country and that the SRS, led by Dr Vojislav Seselj, will file a criminal report against the newspaper "Blic", which today came out with the title "Dr Vojislav Seselj ordered from The Hague to kill Tomislav Nikolic". We're absolutely insisting on investigating who put out and published this kind of data. Authorities in charge of such jobs, such as BIA and the MUP, should come out with a full report on what this is about and who gave the information that Dr Vojislav Seselj had ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic, since President Vojislav Seselj himself accepted that all of his phone conversations be heard in the last four months as far as the case is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42609	Thank you. Since there are no more entries for the word, before I conclude, I'm asking if anyone who hasn't used the right of Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure. Mr Oliver Dulic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for the debate. There are a few questions left, which will probably be discussed in the day that we discuss the amendments you have submitted to this law, but I must essentially say that I have heard a lot of criticism on the proposal of this law but I have not heard any concrete solutions to how to help our construction operation. So, each of you said it was a good idea to help, each of you agrees that the global economic crisis has left serious consequences, each of you having the understanding that a construction operation has to be raised to be an engine for our economy's development, but no one has offered an alternative to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done. I argue that the only way that we can help this state to be an investor at this point is to assign as much work as possible to our builders in all municipalities in Serbia and to do so by pooling the money we have in the budget, in local budgets and in the province, with the money that the banking sector has today. Many of you have said that this will not give the measures or effects because our businesses are over-indebted and cannot take more credit, etc. Here, to repeat, it's not about the construction companies being in debt. The investor is the Republic of Serbia, or local units. They will be in debt to finance projects that will be carried out at the restaurant, which are more than necessary. We are here talking about hiring our school workers, rebuilding hospitals, kindergartens, building new facilities, rebuilding sports facilities, building apartments, repairing and building road infrastructure, etc. So we're talking about all those big construction ventures and works that are necessary to our country. Is this going to mean a new borrowing? It will mean, but it will also mean investment in infrastructure, which can give its multiplier effect and that, in addition to giving effect to the rescue of building operations, that the effect and the increasing competitiveness of our country in the context of the global economic crisis and that we can come out of all this with many more roads, many more apartments and with the recovered sectors such as health and education. So this is the measure that was the only possible. You asked the question – why now? There were no conditions before, because there wasn't any money before, we didn't have banks behind one of these projects. So we had to wait until it matured time for the banks to realize that they weren't worth closing their credit lines towards citizenship and economy, but that they needed to place their funds as well. That's the money that's in the banks. You know very well that we have one absurd -- that our economy is extremely inequitable, and that our banks are more than liquid. So we've contributed that money, which stands in bank accounts, can be invested in an area that will certainly give a very good effect on the economy. You are constantly contesting this intended instrument, but I must tell you that there is courage in all of this, which you must admit. So we ask the National Assembly to give an instrument for implementing a brave policy, which is not common, which certainly wouldn't happen if we didn't have the economic situation we have. We would all like to have a construction sector that, like other sectors of our economy, progresses, brings profits, wages taxes, employs people, generates something that will be the growth of gross domestic product, etc. Unfortunately, that's not the situation. So we're looking for instruments to try to stop this negative trend in no country in the world without serious state intervention, and now we're turning it around, and that's the only way we can do it by bringing this kind of measure. And we're not the first country to measure this. That's the answer to everyone who's trying to show that this is some law that will contribute to, God, our country now blasphemically being portrayed in the world as the only country that protects domestic economy. No, that's not true. Each country tried to protect its vital sectors by customs, extra-carinal, different kinds of measures. For us, the building is a vital sector and therefore this law is only passed for the area of construction. In all other sectors, the Public Procurement Act will apply. And I repeat again - and here will be the Law of Public Procurement. Here only a quick negotiation procedure is recognised, so that it does not wait for the abuse of rights to occur, which occurred and which delayed the decision-making process where money should be placed in the construction sector for several months. When you asked me why I'm complaining to you that there are people who deliberately crash and knock down tenders and extend time and why I don't talk to the state authorities, I have to say that they're doing everything in accordance with the law. So they abuse the right. This abuse of law has turned into a serious business. I told you an example of the Fourth of July barracks. Everything is clear -- the land of the state, the construction directorate of Serbia is building, has money for the construction, has fantastic projects, it is necessary to pass several tender procedures for workers to go to construction sites. We're talking about building almost 5,200 apartments, we're talking about over 500,000 square meters of construction, we're talking about a table and some cranes that are going to spin very quickly there. A tender for geomechanical soil is needed, a tender for design, for financing, for construction. We had to wait two months in the first tender because, besides the CIP, a large design house that employs over 500 engineers and is state-owned, a small house that immediately applied for the protection of the rights of the bidder, completely unargumented, which has neither adequate engineers nor adequate techniques to carry out geomechanical research. All they cared about was getting in and out of the process. They didn't even report to different kinds of hearings that mean the process, but they delayed us for two months. If we'd kept it that way, "July 4th" we'd be building in March next year. We can't let that happen. We need construction now. On that Fourth of July, who's going to work? They'll be working our company. Home-made materials will be used. This country's construction operation will work on such projects. And not just there. Thanks to this law, construction operations in this country will also work on all other projects to be opened. We need fast solutions, and we need very precise instruments to solve the problem we are in, and that's why we entered this law into the Assembly and we're asking for your support. Of course, there will be attempts to abuse this law, as in any society there are probably those who think they can abuse the law and obtain some illegal benefit. What's the job of all of us, above all the state authorities, is to stop them from doing it. We think that there are very clear, precise, transparent mechanisms in this law to prevent them from doing so. Unless, of course, we're all here, including the public, to stop these people from doing it. But you can't say that it's our intention, that it's us who wrote this law and who we're defending here today, to create generalized corruption just because we want to abuse the crisis. That's not true. Tell me, when you read the law well, and when you look at all the mechanisms we've predicted to prevent something like that from happening, do you not recognize this honest and honest intention to prevent abuse? I think there's absolutely a intention to prevent any abuse. We'll give every project the maximum price at which it's possible to negotiate that deal. Where will you get a better controller than that? So, at this price, it can be arranged, it can't go beyond that. The second thing, we'll determine, according to the criteria, which companies can even participate in. We will not allow the so-called small-scale companies to participate in these procedures, we will not allow companies that do not have employees who do not have adequate operations, which have no experience, which have not so far been built on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We want to create conditions that all those affected by the crisis, and many of them are very many, these are our domestic enterprises, our builders, our builders, our carpenters, our carpenters, our carpenters, that all these people can participate in thousands and thousands of construction sites in Serbia, which, thanks to this law, we will try to open. Is he gonna make it? I hope so. What I can guarantee, he will certainly succeed in the area for which my ministry is in charge, which is the area of housing. And I love that you're being skeptical that the barracks "July 4th", or "Stepa Stepanovic", will work as a major construction site. I guarantee you that he will, as I guarantee you, that by the end of this government's term, several other major sites will be opened. Here, I live before you, so criticise me in two years unless something like that happens. I also expect other colleagues, from health care, from education, from infrastructure, to take advantage of the possibility that as soon as possible builders enter their construction sites and start working. So we're trying to save one vital branch. This is the only way we can do it. If you have offered better options through your amendments, we will read them carefully and we will accept them, but I must admit that so far in the debate I have not heard a concrete proposal from any of you who would come and say – I do not think this is good, here is a better proposal for how the building can be saved. He can't do it without serious intervention by the state. I thank you and I am at your disposal to discuss the amendments. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-29-0.u42611	Mr. Minister, thank you for both real optimism and for all the clarifications. I conclude the principled review of the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, gentlemen.
