ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40003	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of MPs, 95 MPs are present. To determine the number of MPs, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Just to inform you that according to this member of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, he is authorised to represent his group, Slobodan Samardzic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40004	President-in-Office, dear fellow friends and citizens of Serbia, over a month and a half ago I submitted and suggested one question about the rocketling of the bus in the village of Vitanovac to Kraljev, where Mrs Popovic was injured and after all these investigations I personally handed over the question and documentation, we gave to Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you saw that document, but more than 45 days went by, I didn't get an answer to what was wrong with her health? I'm asking the responsible person who was supposed to answer to say at least what about after ten years? The woman didn't get that, so if it's possible for someone from the government who's in charge of that, answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40005	Of course, we'll update, or we'll ask for an answer again. As you know, we usually do that if the institution and the individual don't respond within two weeks, but we'll do it again. Mr. Free Samardzic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40006	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, in front of the DSS parliamentary group, ask for information or notice on the reasons why the Serbian government has given up some of its constitutional powers and why has the President of the Republic of Serbia taken over or usurped some of the government's responsibilities? It is about the government's authority to determine and lead politics, including Serbia's foreign policy, and the president's powers to represent a country in the country and abroad. What happened last Saturday in Istanbul and the work of the President of the Republic far exceeds his constitutional powers, fully belongs to the government's powers. I remind you that his visit to Istanbul resulted in a declaration now called the historical so-called "Istabul". Istanbul's declaration and one agreement that these three-way meetings of representatives of Serbia, Turkey and BiH will take place in the three-time regime three times a year. These are the results of an Istanbul visit by the president of the Republic who far exceeds his constitutional powers, belong to the government, and the government has not done them, but the President of the Republic. I would also like to remind you of several side effects of this visit to Istanbul, to see that with this violation of the Constitution, as regards the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, many things have happened that do not correspond to and do no advantage to Serbia's foreign policy, nor honor. First, the president of the Republic of Serbia met there with one of the representatives of the BiH presidency, Mr Haris Silajdzic, who, as we later learned from another member of the BiH Representation, Mr Radmanovic, was there unauthorized, i.e. did not have the approval of the other two members of the BiH Representation. That's one thing the president of the Republic of Serbia shouldn't have agreed to. If we bear in mind that two weeks ago, Haris Silajdzic, in Mostar, directly insulted both Serbia and the president of the Republic, the question is more likely – why did it agree to that? Then, the president of the Republic of Serbia said, guaranteed or assured Haris Silajdzic that Serbia will not interfere with BiH's internal affairs and will not act against BiH's territorial integrity. Such a statement is normal. However, he did not ask for a return statement from both of his negotiators in Istanbul, so President Gul and an unauthorized BiH representative, that they should also guarantee Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Then, the president of the Republic of Serbia congratulated BiH, i.e. Its unauthorized representative in Istanbul on the BiH Action Plan, which was won by NATO, opening the door for BiH to join NATO. The question arises -- why does the president of a country that declared military neutrality congratulate its neighbour on the gradual entry into NATO, into a military organisation and why it does so, given that part of that BiH state, one of two entities with major doubts, has access to such a policy. I will remind you, when BiH's NATO application to Brussels, on the basis of a decision by the BiH Representation, that the Serb representative in the BiH presidency abstained, which was at least warning about the latter's actions for the president of the Republic of Serbia in support of BiH's NATO entry. All of these are indicators of a very clumsy and without a strategy to lead Serbia's foreign policy, led by a person who is not authorized to run this policy. Given the opportunity for some strategic changes to take place in the Balkans, in particular regarding the relationship between Brussels and Washington, which are going according to many indicators in the direction of replacing the main strategy at the Serbian government level – Europe has no alternative – towards the strategy, Turkey has no alternative. Obviously, the EU cannot accept Turkey in its ranks for the next hundred years replaces this policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40007	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right in accordance with Article 235 who wants to? Yeah. ) Mr Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40008	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, I must tell you that all reasonable deadlines for some answers to the questions I have been asking here for months have expired. I'm interested in having you answer to us, both me and the citizens of Serbia, what do you do and what do you think you're doing, and I'll be happy with your answer that you can't do anything about it, but then the Serbian citizens know about it, because some ministers and ministers keep ignoring the issues I've been asking here for months? I would like to remind both you and fellow Members of the People's Parliament that you, one of the ministers, Mrs. Snezana Markovic, have made a public note from the pay phone. Maybe it was too harsh, maybe it was unfair, since she proved it to me, even though I didn't ask for it, and it was a playground for the disabled, that she did it honestly and honestly, and my political morality and honesty, as I understand it, tells me to say it. At the end of December 2009, as the initiator and applicant for amendments to build these playgrounds, I was informed by the Minister of what was all done taxively in 2009 and it is commendable. It is not to be commended, Madam President, that the finance minister insists on avoiding the answer. I don't know if I have the right to a new five minutes now, because I've already asked this question ten times in this National Assembly, and as far as money is concerned, the money that the citizens of Serbia have been robbed by text messages, bids, as I say, cubes on so-called. Public service. My question was very simple and simple – where is the money? We see that an organized group of criminals who've dealt with this has been arrested. We've received reports from information. We also got 53 cars and three apartments found. Anyone can calculate that's a hundred million. Where's 400 million? In one of the answers provided by the "little mouse" behind the word "collegium", we know which "collegiate", that he has paid 20% of those funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I asked the question – why, as is the case with other organised crime groups and who have been arrested, reports and police ministers and all state authorities have shown that these funds have been blocked. This time, there's just no answer. From what I realized that the system worked, a part of the funds through cars and apartments went as it went, a part of the funds was paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and one was left to Serbia's State lottery. I am now interested in that part, is it paid, and apparently is, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Why aren't those funds blocked? In what way does the finance minister think that money is returned to the citizens of Serbia, who is'made', so to speak, obviously in a deceitful way, because the investigation and arrest of people apparently showed it? I want to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that in the last week of November, in November 2009, I warned about what these games mean, so to speak, and the games broadcast at the Public Service paid by all Serbian citizens, which means morally, not mentioning anyone's criminal responsibility. It took someone three months to figure it out and then inform the citizens of Serbia that that's what happened, we're not guilty, we don't know who's guilty, let the state authorities determine who's guilty. I'm not going in there and I'm just asking – where's the money? Where is 400 million money, for which citizens are obviously deceived, participating in cheating SMS games at the Public Service, which these same citizens finance through a TV subscription? Because one of the slogans is so-called. The public service "Your right to know everything", I apologize, I have very literally realized that for our money we Serbian citizens need to know everything. That's why I'm asking. Where's the money? Where's 400 million dinars? Is this all that's going on, the "little mouse" hiding behind the word "collegium", buying a ticket from Serbia's state summit for the next term as director-general of Serbia's Public Service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40009	Mr. MP, it would be good to avoid the basnolic comparisons and conclusions, especially when they get a negative connotation and damage to the reputation of both individuals and institutions. You asked me - what am I doing? The services that are required by the Rules of Procedure to do, do what needs to be done, and that is, when two weeks pass, and we do not get an answer from any individual or institution, we insist on the answer. We'll do it again, of course. I am also taking this opportunity, given that our work is public, to invite Minister Dragutinovic to give the answer to Mr Markicevic's question. Does anyone else want a word in accordance with this article? Mr. Petar Jojic. Mr. Jojic, we didn't get your authority in writing. In writing, your parliamentary group did not forward the parliamentary group's position. We're gonna win, right? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question – why does the competent ministry of roads and bridge construction not take the appropriate steps to take the overpass of Panchev, which connects the international road between Belgrade and Romania, once does not resuscitate, and several months ago, there has been damage and traffic over that overpass cannot take place along the entire territory of southern Banat and Romania? Freight cars move through several streets by the side of the road, so they destroy the little infrastructure in the Kudelar village. I ask the question - when will the Government of the Republic and its competent ministry take action to resuscitate the overpass, in order to establish traffic towards Romania and the entire territory of southern Banat? Also, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia – will it seek damages for 45m euros from the sale of Azotara? It's about "Kharbamid 2", a new factory that has been disarmed, stolen and sold abroad, whose book value is 45m euros. The Azotara contract was terminated and it is good that the government decided that Azotara is still working, that it should produce artificial fertilizer for farmers in Serbia. However, Serbia, Pancevo and Azotara workers were damaged by a total of 45m euros. I ask the question and ask for an answer – will the proper procedure be initiated, that the state of Serbia, i.e. the workers of Pancheva, be defiled? For the Ministry of Health I ask the question – when will the neuropsychiatric hospitals be visited by one of the health inspectors in Vrsac and Kovin? On the other hand, I ask the question – when will the Ministry of Health stop bringing in health experts from the area of Chačka, Zemun, Belgrade, and in Panchev there are 700 academically educated citizens, doctors and specialists, who can perform certain duties, especially when it comes to leading places? There was a shift from the director of the pharmacy and there was a shift from the director of the health center. You really don't know what's going on there, but what's worse, the SRS and the SRS city board in Panchev have repeatedly asked questions – when will a normal state of health be established in southern Banat, especially in Panchev? Because they're big lines and they're waiting a lot. A number of protocol administrations, bureaucracy, have been introduced, so there has never been a worse health condition, nor has health care been as it is now in Panchev. The Ministry of Health should take measures and go into inspection and check out medical institutions and see about those waitings. If a man needs to lose all day for one recipe it's really inappropriate and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40011	Mrs. Kolundjia? No, I don't. All right. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Riza Halimi, Elvira Kovac, Laslo Varga, Milos Aligrudic and Arsen Đuric. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, called for meetings, in addition to representatives of promoters Dr. Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and Dr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, to be attended by state secretaries at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and this: Željko Radošević, Dragan Injac, Mirjana Milosevic and Milan Petrovic, as well as Momcilo Mitreski, Milan Stegić, Milos Milovanovic and Slobodan Teofanov, assistants of agriculture, forestry and water industry. I also invited Dusan Pajkić, Director of the General Inspectorate, Dejan Serdar, Director of the Agency for Agricultural Payments, Saša Orlović, Director of the Forest Management, Jan Bocanski, Director of Plant Protection Administration, Zoran Jelic, Director of the Land Administration, Zoran Mićović, Director of the Veterinary Administration, Milan Djakov, Director of the Compensation Fund and Uros Ungurović, Director of the Directorate for National References Laboratorys. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and END OF THE VETERINARY LAW (sumption of details) was submitted to Article 4 of the amendment by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic Does anyone want a word? Mr. Vlad Milojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of Article 9 of the Law amending the Veterinary Act, which reads - the words "Central Base" are deleted. The government did not accept this amendment, with a reason that any application for a change in location, as well as a change in the number of animal status, i.e. a check-out, must be registered at one base, a central base. An existing member of the Law which reads – registrations of changes in location, as changes in the number of animal status to the veterinary station for the purpose of reporting, i.e. the check-out of animals is more acceptable for the owners, i.e. animal keepers. When this member was changed, the government, or the competent ministry, did not take into account the age category of the owner, i.e. the holder of the animals, the degree of education and underdevelopment of the rural household. Ladies and gentlemen, in a large number of municipalities, as well as the municipality of Razanj from which I come, the age structure of the owner, the holder of animals in 70% of households is over 65 years, which for the above reasons will not be able to report the change that has occurred. In order for this member to be applied, all drinking places in Serbia should be closed and animal slaughter should be prohibited in the household. Ladies and gentlemen, just to remind you that every Serbian peasant during the year celebrates at least two celebrations, not to mention Christmas, Easter, New Year's, birthdays, weddings, how many animals will then be slaughtered, which will never be cancelled. How will the owner report a change in animal residence if he sells his animal to a buyer who does not know his name or address? How is he gonna get this buyer to show him his ID? Due to all of this, an existing member of the Law where the owner, or holder of animals, each change reports to the veterinary station and the station to the central base is applicable in our terms as well. The member's ministry did not take care of the peasant in Serbia, but adapted the law to the EU, which will not be adequately applicable in our terms. Ladies and gentlemen, by changing this member we will not achieve a better insight into the numerous animal status and changes in animal locations, but rather, in a few years, we will double the number of animals precisely because of all of the above, or the non-disclosure of slaughtered animals, animals sold on the market, or to buyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40013	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40014	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday I commended the ministers and all the advisors around the Ministry. Today I see half of them gone. Yesterday was a busy day, but today seems like the third day would probably be reduced to one or two. There is no agriculture minister today, but there is a former minister and minister of current trade, who will likely ask certain questions that I ask for a certain answer. I have made an amendment to Article 4, which is 11a, which is to inform the veterinarian and previously conducted animal treatment treatments. The amendment is rejected, apparently because it is necessary for certain therapy or, I should say, the medicines the veterinarian has been carrying out on the animal should be followed by the owner, not by a veterinarian. Now I ask you, when the veterinarian comes to the barn or the barn and does his certain services and examines the animal, he actually, when he does all this, eventually delivers the bill and registers the drugs and, normally, his services to the owner, and in fact he doesn't write the entire history of the diseases he's treated or who needs to be treated. So I think that here, in fact, the whole file should be followed and had by a veterinarian, not actually by an animal owner. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been seeing, for 10 years and more, a major erosion as far as production is concerned, about agriculture, especially in the wind. Veterinary services have become the most expensive today, precisely because foreign drugs and owners, or peasants, are sometimes unable to hire veterinarians, leave the case, so what happens, whether the animal dies or not. You've seen how much it is and it's good that it's raised to one higher level when it comes to Mila Kerusha, when so many citizens rebelled against an inhuman act on an innocent animal. But now I ask you -- how many of these people today who are disabled in Serbia are they treated like this? Can those with certain prosthetics be adequately replaced or repaired after a certain period of time? Did the citizens then rebel for the protection of such citizens, as my neighbor, Mr. Ranko, who cannot change his prosthetics, therefore fills it with certain rags and sponges, so that he could walk? Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at today and see what was missed in the strategy in agriculture itself, you of millions of unemployed people could today make one of the richest countries in the environment, in addition to this poor or criminal globalisation and privatisation in Serbia. You could have sent 500 people back to your hearth, that you gave them adequate conditions to produce in agricultural production, but you didn't do it. You did this today that, as is fortunately present today, the Minister of Trade, that all or we can say import goods today, related to agriculture, are located from China, so you can find white onions that are from China, beans that are from China and that I don't list all these products. I ask you, where is our product? Because there's no planned production, Mr. Minister, in the pre-election campaign for this when you were in 2007, in 2008, you promised the masculine peasants honey and milk to get certain loans and subsidies. He got the peasant loans and subsidies, but you ruined it today. He's ruined today because he can't sow, he can't sow, you see the deadlines, everything broken, about the sowing. How do you think a peasant will repay those loans? He can't return them, because first you devalued his price, the ransom price of your product, related to live cattle, and that's pigs and heroes. You say – there is an open market for the production of juniper meat, but I ask you – where are we going to get the repromatter when you destroyed the breeding nest? You destroyed the breeding pigs, you destroyed the cows, you destroyed everything that was one great blessing and we were proud of in Serbia, and in the time of Obrenović and Karadjordjevic we exported the goods. But I ask you -- today, where is Serbia? You say – a surplus has been achieved in agricultural production, but don't forget, that surplus has been accomplished by you, not by a peasant, because you robbed and took his product from him. But I ask you, do you know what makes the surplus? A surplus has been set in the collection of secondary raw materials. Serbia has today become a country where secondary raw materials are collected and where we boast that we have exported this product out. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking or talking about taking care of a peasant today. I'll tell you, of the 800 preparations in Serbia today, only 300 are registered. What about those 500? Who is the producer and who is the importer of these preparations, these herbicides and insecticides that are now imported and located on the Serbian market? You don't know who he is. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look and you see, a young man, a young peasant today has no perspective, because he doesn't have a future, he doesn't know what's waiting for him. In fact, his product is seasonal. He makes it, he sows it now so he can reap it or he can read it for six months or seven or eight months. So he doesn't have any perspective and he lives in a great uncertainty. You brought a peasant today, because you're not behind him. You only need a peasant when he has to give you votes, when you have to come and expose him, to promise him towers and cities. Ladies and gentlemen, you heard yesterday in an exhaustive statement by Mr. Sasa Dragina, when he answered me in 30 seconds, unfortunately, which is not true. I wish it were true and I was wrong, because the use of total herbicides can't even be done in any high-thermal processing to destroy it, and these total herbicides are used in the production of modified plants. Secondly, what I also wanted to say yesterday, but did not answer that question in the previous law on modified plants, Mr. Minister strictly said that the territory of Serbia cannot produce modified plants. Yesterday he kept it quiet because he avoided that answer. With this law again, you want to introduce the modified seeds into Serbia at a small door. Ladies and gentlemen, you must think about Serbia. You must think of the Serbian peasant. You must think about the Serbian future, about our children. In the end, you forgot to tell us today about an event that happened, and that's on Voluntary Street in 1992, when our children died in Sarajevo, our soldiers, our pithogs, didn't pay their respects to our missing children today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40015	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of several ministries, since I see here and the Minister of Trade and Service, I am holding the Veterinary Act that we have brought before and amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, and as I said yesterday, it's hard to bring one and the other into line. One and the other are European laws, but the one with the supplements has made little confusion about this particular veterinary law itself. On the basis of the amendments I have submitted, which is that Article 10 following Article 2 of Article 3 which reads - in the event of a breach of the provisions of Article 1 of this Article, the above shall be legally sanctioned, not to say fined. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that you, in your amendment to the law, touched that part I'm going to talk about. After the words - our own livestock industry, we added more to the Veterinary Act – and to farms owned by myself, and then I touched this first law and found that the amendment should be submitted. What do you do when it comes to Article 10? Article 10, first point says: A legal person who deals with livestock and livestock production may, for the purposes of his own livestock production, establish a veterinary service as a veterinary station (hereinafter referred to as: veterinary service with legal status). Look what's going on on the field today. One owner hires a veterinarian who normally doesn't have his own veterinary station, has no job, but that legal person thought that it could help him by working with him, and it will pay him as he pays him, won't be able to start a working relationship, nor will he treat him like that, but he will therefore do veterinary services. We don't think it's going to answer to anyone at the time if that vet in question, who's so hired by the owner who owns that cattle farm, has no responsibility at all. Then make a pandan for those who set up and have those veterinary stations. He pays all the legal obligations he has to the state, and this guy walks into a small door with a certain owner who deals with livestock, does his services, this guy gives him cash, he doesn't have a job. This is also the case where I live and for this reason I have submitted this amendment, where it is said if sanctions were accepted against those responsible in this case in order to prevent these abuses too, because so far the law has allowed a wide range of abuses. For this reason, I have carried out that supplement in that Article 10, that position 3, should be sanctioned, as I have stated here, in the event of a breach of the provisions laid down in the position of this Member, of that title must be legally sanctioned. I hope that, by amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, this will still be implemented in practice and that people will no longer be allowed to work on black, others not to respond if there is any damage to the livestock industry, and third, that once the rule of law begins to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40017	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40018	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first I'm going to say hello to Mr. Milosavljevic and go back a few months when I was talking about veterinary abuses in the central animal tag database, when he miraculously wondered what I was talking about, and today I'm surprised how he got here today when we were talking about the vet. Since we don't have an interviewer, I can see that Mr. Micovic didn't find the time to come either, I'm going to talk about very specific things, so today I can be calm, I don't suppose. Before I start a more serious story, I'll say one more thing - we've submitted about 40 amendments. None of these amendments have been accepted. It was simply not heard about what we wanted to achieve, and of course we did not act on our own initiative as a parliamentary group, but we had very professional help from certain veterinary services that helped us, because they care that this law was changed in the part where they could make life easier and improve the public health of Serbian citizens, above all. I want to say a few more things, although we expected this law to bring about some changes that will be essential, because the previous Krnjaić law has been unarranged in many things, it is obvious and is now even more obvious when you have not accepted amendments that there has been no hearing that the law itself has changed, but it has changed a few things concerning compliance with the laws that you have passed. These are the Food Safety Act, the Law on cattle farming, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Animal Wellbeing Act, where veterinarians are only mentioned in signs, as if they were not there. That service doesn't matter to you, especially in these parts of the Food Safety Act. Another thing is to comply with some EU directives, where you do not speak specifically about the directives, but we have managed to identify them. The third thing is so-called. language changes that, especially in these few amendments that started last night, which we didn't comment on, where it was really funny to mention that the word - tracking, which clearly implies everything, replace the word – traceability that has nothing to do with what you're trying to explain here, is why it was entered. The word does not exist in Serbian. I suppose this is Serbian law and will apply it in Serbia, and it would be logical that at least people of the profession understand that law. I don't know how you're going to translate "continuity", since we don't have that noun in Serbia, we have a verb. I asked you to take care of it last time. I'm not gonna waste any more time. I'll talk about some very concrete things because we have a lot of amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40019	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Would you like a word, Mr. Savior? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, New Serbia has submitted amendments to the draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. In Article 13 paragraph 1(2), after the word "animals", the words "and has a certificate that seed is health-secure, biologically quality and has good fertility". The interpretation of this amendment – it is important for the law to be as high-quality, more precise as possible, and thus more practical. It is necessary to add the proposed wording. Generally and in the debate in principle and in the debate we are in the details of the position that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. The fundamental flaw of this amendment to the law is that over 30 members of the existing Veterinary Act are changed and that if 30% of the members in the law are changed then a new law should be written. This is how the whole of the law is broken, which allows other professions, mostly agronomic, to take away some of the jobs of the people who deal with the wind. The proposal only mentions the programme of measures, and nowhere is the basic task of veterinary services, prevention of occurrence, detection, prevention and eradication of infectious animal diseases. The law should be applicable in practice, that it has an effect, a goal and a fact, to be applicable and, if necessary, variable. What's the point of specializing in carnivorous examinations? All the penalties that are collected should go to improve the work and equipment of the service. Why aren't they competing for the assignment of territories the institutes work on? Amendments and additions do not comply with criminal provisions, lack accuracy and consistency.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40021	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Nikolic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40022	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in principle, I have commented on the central database and the work of the veterinary inspection, and I would like to go to the details now. For example, the detail is - on 8 March 2010 Mr. Micovic, director of the Veterinary Authority, brought and signed a solution number, not to read, ending further co-operation with the Veterinary Station Glober from Kosjerić, making it a practical measure for this station not to be able to deal with its work. Furthermore, it's interesting why he's shutting down this station, calling for a solution to the inspection. Be careful when the inspection gives the solution – March 10th. So, two days after the minister writes a solution that he can't do something about breaking the rules, the inspection after two days finds everything the minister here wrote. I don't know what this is about. It's a very interesting headline that happened to Micevic, I don't know what it's really about. It would be nice if he were here or if the minister were there who, I suppose, knows it or Mr. Pajkic, who is the head of the inspection, so he could tell us what this is about because it's very interesting. How can you first write a solution to stop doing something based on an inspection two days later? It's just a little weird. We'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40023	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40024	Article 13 refers to an existing member of Law 20, and this member speaks and regulates the activity of the Animal Reproductive Centre and artificial insemination. In particular, this amendment applies to point 1) of this article. I'll cut the story short. Generally, under the current law, these centres are intended to employ at least two licensed veterinarians, one of whom is an animal reproductive specialist, and in cattle reproduction centres, employers were required to employ an animal reproductive specialist. What are these changes proposed? The proposer says that in these centres it is enough to work one veterinarian with a license, which is simply amazing because we know that there are large numbers of jobs in Serbia and that we have insufficient veterinarians with a license. I think there's about 2,700 of them. For the current size of jobs and that number is insufficient. Here now, the Ministry of Agriculture thinks these centers can only have one veterinarian with a license. Otherwise, this shift goes absolutely against the profession. So the size of the business is going to be the same or bigger. The employer will not think of hiring because of the volume of work of the new veterinarian, but will train, as he is now doing, so is the practice of a technician who will perform those tasks that only veterinarians with a licence can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40025	The amendments were submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40026	Article 14, which relates to the adoption of a new Article 20a, paragraph 1 of point 1), reads: "Storage, i.e. the trafficking of semen for artificial insemination of animals managed by a veterinarian with a licence, an animal reproductive specialist". The reason for this amendment is that professional surveillance of the storage of reproductive material is very important and guarantees successful law enforcement in practice. The government does not accept some amendments that are certainly celery, which would repair something that repair itself into 30% of the members, as I said, however, well, no big deal, nothing unusual. This may be a moment, Mr. Minister, and I am glad that you are present here today, to point out to you a problem that certainly Serbian citizens see every day and know. Serbia is a country where the price of buying meat from peasants, prices in shops or butchers and the price of finished products, dried meat products, therefore, there are no such differences in Europe as we do. On the one hand, the peasant is completely damaged by a ransom price. Practically, the stock fund is shrinking, and then you enter the store to buy and see a disaster compared to how much our citizens can buy today. Mr. Minister, a few days ago in the King's office, I walked into a butcher's office, and I saw a woman buying 150 grams of ground meat. It's a disaster. If you look at the prices of dried meat products, you will see that it is absolutely at European level, and wages are also a disaster. Mr. Minister, I don't know how, but since I've had the chance to go to shops in some cities in Europe, there's a clear difference there and it's standing in those cool food windows and some food that's for everyday use. We don't have that difference here. We are about the prices we sell in our shops absolutely above the prices of Europeans. We don't know where that stuff comes from. We don't know when we get into some store whether it's really bought from the peasants, which can be taken under some kind of biofood, or whether it's just food out of the ordinary. So, Serbian citizens don't know what they're eating, they're eating in principle very unquality, and that's why there's a huge increase, of course for some other reasons, in cancer. I'd like you to try to put some order in that there is a possibility of eating quality, and first of all I'd ask you to do everything you can to try to find a solution in these difficult times to keep the meat prices down. It is known that many children today in Serbia cannot see once a week's meat in a plate. So, one situation that's worrying, from a country that's practically known for producing, that she's growing, that she's exporting, we don't have at this point practically organized production, it's ad hoc, we have such a disparity price that it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40027	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40028	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm still going on about this famous central database that just a little bit goes down, so it can't be used, and there are thousands of mistakes that I was talking about back then, and today I'm going on. In the central database, for example, there are data that the "Divcibarac" slaughterhouse from Kosjerić during its work has slaughtered over a thousand cattle that are not subject to mandatory measures from the animal health care programme, be careful – mandatory measures. So neither body protection nor adult individuals were performed, nor was blood drawn for laboratory testing on tuberculosis, brucellosis or leukosis. To make things even more complicated, there are irregularities in the central base in this sense that some throats, after a confirmed slaughter, are listed as being carried out on these animals by a programme of measures, several months after being slaughtered. While other animals are listed as being sold after a confirmed slaughter, they are thought to be sold as living animals. I don't really know if anyone can say anything about this text that I read, simply because what it says in the paper doesn't suck, and that's what veterinarians, practitioners, people who do practice in the field and say thousands of things can be found in this central database. If the codes were "wrote" and certain lobbies, I'm re-quoting the cattle lobby, it has codes and it's misusing those codes. It would be interesting to answer that or simply to say that it's not true and that's the answer. Well, argument to say, because I have counterarguments. The next thing you know, that's going on at that central base, except that it appears that a mandatory programme of measures is not being implemented, that the animals are afterwards being led to slaughter, because the executions have been slaughtered, that the programme of measures, who paid for it, is it possible, so who paid for it, whether it's some kind of abuse or someone has to answer for it. It would be interesting to have a discussion about it. Everybody's quiet and they're looking away and I'm trying to find a view of one of them here, and everybody's getting away from something. What I'm saying is obviously they know and it's not news. It's one of the things in the database. I'll tell you later on about the virtual stamps, and that's an interesting story.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40029	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40030	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we have given this amendment to Article 15. He's highly technical, where we think there's a technical error, and he should have been adopted. Let me just read you what is said in this way - the laboratory performs diagnostic tests (bacteriological, serological, viral, parasitic, chemical, biochemical, physical, pathological, and raciological). We put the amendment that it takes the word "physical" to replace the word "physical", and the word "raciological" is absolutely a word that doesn't exist in diagnostics. We think it's a technical mistake and it's thought of radiological diagnostics, and especially what's similar in article 19 that we have the next amendment, where there's a correction, after pathologically states here radiologically. So it had to be accepted, especially the explanation given in response. It says the amendment is not accepted because there are no physiological laboratory tests. I guess this was routinely answered by someone who doesn't understand this and doesn't understand the point. First of all, the answer isn't true, there's physiologically, we don't go in there, there's pathological research and physiological research. So we're not going into that expert debate. You really should either take it as a minister. He didn't have any lab analysis on this list of physical tests. There are labs for physics, but they're dealing with some other problem. The answer is incorrect, there are physiological and pathophysiological studies. In particular, it is not commented in response to this - raciologically. You should have said that, it's a technical mistake, it'll be corrected. We think this should be accepted because, ultimately, in one segment, the technical irregularity of this point 1 is corrected. There is absolutely no need to react by absolute rejection, especially I do not know who wrote the answer, but it is evident that he did not understand the essence that this should be corrected, which is shown indirectly in the next article.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40031	National MP Zeljko Brestovici submitted an amendment proposing that Article 18a be added after article 18a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. The word is Mr. Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40032	The esteemed presidents, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, there are 12 specialist veterinary institutions in Serbia, two scientific institutes, one in Belgrade, and the other in Novi Sad. There are ten veterinary institutes established by the government, which appoints the board of directors and directors. Property, as you know, is owned by the state. They all operate 100% on the income system, no government donations and no attacks on the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Directorate for National Reference Laboratorys, as you know, organized its status under the Food Safety Act, Article 18 and 19 of the Law, and it is very important in the food safety chain. It must or should provide accredited laboratories with an efficient food safety control system and should cover accredited laboratories of various activities and firms, primarily public health institutions belonging to the Ministry of Health, Agriculture, Enological Institutes, Fruit and other laboratories for the purposes of the above-mentioned functions of food safety control. The place and role of the specialist veterinary service must be preserved and autonomous in the framework of the Veterinary Authority with an outstanding task of performing specialist tasks in the framework of animal health, laboratory diagnostics, monitoring and control of infectious animal diseases and zoonoses, hygiene control, hygiene, food quality, food for animals and water, solving the problem in the field of animal reproduction, as a basic and irreplaceable function. Of course, this does not mean that certain laboratories and activities from these institutions will not have their place and function in the food safety chain and the above-mentioned directives under the Food Safety Act, based on the powers they will receive under that law. What is also particularly important is the fact that this type of organisation of specialist veterinary activity, within the veterinary service, is recognizable and efficient, both in EU countries and in all countries with a quality organisation system. Finally, it is very important to maintain and maintain the status of specialist veterinary activity in the country under that veterinary service organisation, which is managed by the Veterinary Administration, which is otherwise an integral part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The PUPS parliamentary group, when it's voting day, will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40033	The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Milan Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40034	Here, it's a similar thing again in one segment. The amendment is again explained - that it is a technical correction, which is again not accepted with the same explanation. Here it is called for an explanation for this previous amendment, with the fact that there is, of course, no more technical error here -- that at this point there is "raciological" than there is "radiological" diagnostics, so that it is corrected. And this indirectly shows that there was a technical error here that was not mentioned in the explanation. Again repeats the "physical" superanalysis of samples and confirmatory diagnostic tests and again "physical". The absolute profile of these laboratories and of the superanalysis of these samples doesn't need any physical, any physical properties to be tested, so here we suggest that we make a change - a place of "physical" to stand "physical". So it's an extremely professional correction that only improves the quality of this article, where it's probably a failure and this "physical" absolutely doesn't fit into the purpose of this diagnostic that's listed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40035	National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 19a be added after article 19a. Mr. Kristin, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 31, the old Veterinary Act adds: "In the event of a breach of the provisions laid down in Article 4, the veterinarian loses his right to work on the ground for a period of at least six months". I'll get back to it. First, let me read what a veterinary technician has to do with this as a veterinary worker, i.e. which are his obligations and says: "Veterinary technicians cannot perform surgical procedures, make diagnosis, prescribe treatment and self-preserve medications. Veterinary technicians, in particular circumstances, with the consent and under the supervision of veterinarians, may perform certain surgical procedures, i.e. The castration of the pig. "I see Mr. Micovic is not here, but you are probably here as one of his associates. Namely, in the municipality of Zrenjanin in the populated town of Lemir, which is the example of three veteran doctors, who have about 300 interventions of artificial insemination of cows, while one veterinarian, who is completely out of control, has about 1,300 of the same interventions. I'm sure it happens all over Serbia. That is why I have sought here in this amendment – in the event of a violation of the provision of Article 31, paragraph 4, that a veterinarian loses his right to work on the ground for six months, not only to impose his fine. It's really getting out of hand. I'm afraid that, despite what this Law on Veteran and Change and the addition of the Veterinary Act has been done, and yesterday I said that he was really well done, based on what our expert associates, our veteran doctors, have told us. You still have a problem on the ground. There's a very pronounced problem on the ground. One of these is. So only in one populated town of Lemir, belonging to the municipality of Zrenjanin, you have three veteran doctors who performed artificial insemination of cows, in 300, while this same, one veterinary technician in that populated place, unregistered, which is completely out of control, has about 1,300 of the same interventions. So three veteran doctors artificially isolated 300 cows, and he's out of control by himself, 1,300. That is why I wanted this to be applied – through this amendment to let you know that it is not quite so and difficult to apply on the ground. You have to really take care of it. I'm sorry Mr. Micovic isn't here right now, but we've talked about this subject before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40037	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40038	Dear President, I would like to inform you that I will be using a 15-minute mandated representative. The existing Veterinary Act had to undergo changes, as it adopted a significant set of regulations and directives governing the area of food hygiene, as well as a series of specific rules for food of animal origin, animal food and official controls. These reasons represent the need to bring the existing law into line, in order to enable the Republic of Serbia to participate in international transport without delay and to export animals and products of animal origin to the EU market. It should be noted that EU rules governing international transport of animals and products of animal origin, as well as food of animal origin, have defined the conditions for health status and equivalent measures to be implemented to prevent the occurrence and spread of infectious animal diseases. In this respect, identification documents for animals are prescribed, then the data to be entered into those documents and the monitoring system for animal movements. The proposed amendments and additions to the Veterinary Act will create good normative assumptions that on the international market in the production of food of animal origin producers from Serbia can appear evenly and competitively and take advantage of the comparative values that this country has in the veterinary field. We all know in this high building, and the public in Serbia knows that our country is, according to the tradition of its producers and by the results of which it has produced a respectable and competitive entity in the area of animal farming and in the production of food of animal origin. Throughout the history of modern Serbia in the last two centuries, meat exports and other products of animal origin have been a strategic basis for Serbia's development. During the last few decades of the 20th century, giant food industry, especially giants in meat and meat processing, have been significant and recognizable entities in a highly competitive and selective world food market. Our producers, such as "Karnex", "November 29", "Servo Mihalj", "PKB", "Mitros", "MIP", "Juhor" and many others, produced meat and meat processing according to the world's highest standards and exported to all markets -- from Russia and the Middle East, to EU countries. This was done thanks to the favourable climate and other natural conditions that Serbia has for the development of livestock, thanks to a strong tradition among our population in this area, but thanks above all to the development of knowledge and investment in the professional training of veterinary personnel, which in just a few decades have raised traditional and extensive livestock farming in Serbia to the level that animal farming and animal food production brings closer to the world's highest standards. Thanks to our experts who acquired their skills in our country's secondary, higher and higher schools and institutes in the second half of the 20th century, Serbia has completely changed and developed a cattle fund, especially in the area of pig farming and bovine animals. Our manufacturers applied the expertise of veterinary experts through a developed network of veterinary cells and came to high-productive races of pigs, cattle and sheep. Knowledge in the cultivation, protection and nutrition of animal species has been applied, as well as in the selection. All of this led to impressive results in food production. What I'm trying to say is that the biggest contribution to these results, along with the manufacturers themselves, has been made by the veterinary profession. It was adequately evaluated by all system laws and experts in this area were appreciated everywhere, especially in highly developed areas of livestock production. Since I know very well the Mačvani District, from which I come, I can freely say that veterinary experts, along with doctors and teachers, have been the most respected people in our villages for decades and that their knowledge and expertise are unreservedly respected. It is not by any chance that for decades the best students from these parts went to the High School of Agriculture or to the Veterinary College in Belgrade or other university centres in our country after finishing their primary school. The enormous knowledge and expertise of these people has been embedded in the results achieved by each of our cattlemen, and therefore it must not be neglected or underestimated, this team before we want to bring this area into line with high EU standards to be competitive on its market. Unfortunately, my impression is that the proposer of these changes and additions did not have enough hearing to normally regulate the veterinary profession in the proposed changes so as to ensure the profiling of veterinary experts, so that they could carry out the tasks that they have under the law, based on their diploma and diplomas, which they acquire under the law. Desiring to contribute to removing this lack, the SPS-JS Group and I, as its authorised representative, have proposed three amendments to the proposed legislative solutions, which unfortunately the government has not accepted. We have submitted these amendments to the best intention of introducing an expert veterinarian into the law, so that these individuals, after completing basic vocational studies, which take three years, may, in accordance with the law, carry out health care, breeding, reproduction, hygiene and care studies, as well as prepare samples for laboratory testing and self-execution of zootechnical work. We have also proposed a solution whereby professional veterinary technicians should perform a nine-month traineeship to improve training for the practical application of acquired knowledge. Also, as a result of the fact that so far there was no professional name in the Veterinary Act as a professional veterinarian, since this profile has been educated since 2007, we have also proposed a solution to introduce this interest into the law. We had in mind the fact that this profession was separated from the profession of a veterinary technician who needed a mid-skiller to prepare, while an expert veterinarian studied a high vocational school or a high vocational study of six semesters and had an obligation to pass an expert examination before the committee educated by the minister after completing the traineeship. Dear fellow Members of the People, the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendments mentioned and that the profession of a professional veterinarian is not intended to enter into the new text of the Veterinary Law brings them into a very difficult and unequal position, not only those who have acquired this interest, but also those institutions that educate them. I suppose professional veterinary technicians are also educated at other high-school vocational studies in our country, but let me keep your attention at the High Agricultural School of Professional Studies in Šapec which educates this profile of experts. Namely, this school was accredited on June 2nd, 2007 with a solution of 76/05 with five sections, and one of them is a professional veteran. The Republic of Serbia has determined, in line with the Bologna Declaration, that studies in the direction of professional veterinary materials last for three years, or six semesters, to carry 180 points and that students who successfully complete these studies get the call of professional veterinary technicians. Experts in this profile do not endanger the status of veterinarians and veterinarians, or experts in this area that already exist and who recognise our legislation. On the contrary, in accordance with the Bologna Declaration, professional veterinarians appear as new profiles of expertise that should exercise all rights as well as all other professions in accordance with this declaration. In this regard, it should be noted that the graduate students who are trained on this profession profile are trained to perform a series of activities on their own, for which veterinary technicians with medium professional training are not trained, but do not endanger the expertise and competences of veterinary professionals who are trained in colleges. The question arises – if this profession is not introduced into the law, how will the persons who are qualified and acquired the degree of professional veterinary technician exercise the rights that they are entitled to on the basis of the acquisition of that diploma? How will these persons apply to the National Employment Service? How will they get a job and how will veterinary and other related services hire them if they are not in law? Who are we schooling them to? Who are we teaching these people? One year of these studies cost a student several thousand euros. If we take into account the tuition paid by parents or states, the costs of teaching, the salaries of professors, the maintenance of students, and the like, if we multiply it by three, how many years these studies take, it turns out that we as a society spend huge money on face-schooling who can't find a job anywhere in the veterinary profession because they're not recognized by the parent law. I think it's socially irresponsible, to do enormous damage, not only to people who are educated for this profile of profession and their parents, but also to the veterinary profession in general and our society and the state. Namely, if the system of higher education of vocational studies is in line with the Bologna Declaration, then the proposed text of the amendments and addition of the Veterinary Act must be heard for this fact, as is the need to comply with the current provisions on veterinaryism established by the EU. Therefore, it is not possible to comply with the adaptation to European legislation in one part of the law, and in the provisions concerning domestic professions, which are also in line with EU legislation, i.e. the Bologna Declaration, to ignore the fact that there is an interest in which huge material resources, knowledge and experience have been invested and that this interest is not introduced into the law. I really cannot understand the fact why the Government of the Republic of Serbia ignored in the proposed legal text the profession of a professional veterinarian and why it did not accept the amendments that we have submitted. Once again, I appeal that the profession of a professional veterinarian is introduced into the law and that in this way an inexplicable injustice is corrected, not only for people who are educated in this profession, but for the veterinary population in general, which is more than necessary for the rapid development of this profession. At the very end, I would like to remind myself that the amendments I have submitted as an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group applied exclusively to the precision of the profession of a professional veterinarian in relation to the profession of a veterinarian and a veterinary technician, because this occupation was introduced into our school system in 2007, so it is necessary to make a legal correction in this regard. Also, we felt that the professional training of this profile in relation to the profession of veterinarians and veterinarians should be legally distinguished through the length of the traineeship, which takes 12 months for veterinarians and for veterinarians for six months. Our proposal was for an expert veterinary technician to perform a nine-month traineeship. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to remind myself that I have submitted an amendment to the proposed amendments to the Veterinary Act which, after Article 19, introduces myself as new members of 19a, 19b and 19v, as well as amendments to Articles 98 and 157 in which Article 2 which introduces the profession of a professional veterinarian is added to the law. Finally, after Article 86, we have proposed a new member of 86, which defines the profession of an expert veterinarian. I think because of the quality of the law and because of the fate of the people who devoted their lives to education in this profession, it would be important that in the day of voting the National Assembly accept this amendment. And once again, I appeal to both the minister and the people of the ministry to make a big mistake if we don't accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40039	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that there are high school students and students of Novi Pazar at the gallery, who will accompany a part of today's session. The visit is, of course, a matter of their initiative, but supported by MPs Munir Poturk, Kenan Hajdarevic and Sheriff Hamzagic of the Office for the Communication of People's MPs with citizens in Novi Pazar, and the Office itself is the work of co-operation of our National Assembly and the National Democratic Institute. On the galerija there are sitting high schoolers and students: Mersad Ličina, Jasmin Kulic, Lida Lekpek, Elfa Hajrović, Anela Kajčar, Jenita Kršić, Semir Kambović, Nihad Granica, Ajla Dazdarevic, Amina Kurtović, Amela Hocanin, Amela Sejdinović, Emir Hamidović, Djelila Manojlić, Zilha Zupić, Fatima Isović, Amela Tatarević, Amela Tatavić, Amer Telić, Ersan Rifatović, Fahrudin Mahmutović, Elvin Huduti, Nina Manojlović, Amina Halović, Zilha Ragipović, Zilha Ragipović, Aldina Pramenković, Amervić, Sida Crnovranin, Sida Batak, Sida Bata Batakić, Niko, Nikola Rosa Rosa Rosić, Haris Nokić, Haris Nokić, Haris Nokić, Angela Noković, Adina Noković, Az, Azraž, Az, Azraž, Azradić I invite you to applaud our dear guests. National MPs Milica Vojic – Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 20th amendment. [[Applause]] Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40040	This member speaks of the organisation of the ZOO Hygienic Service and speaks of the obligations that local self-government has under the existing law, by making other obligations under these amendments and by supplementing local self-government. In fact, local self-government is required to organise a zoo hygiene service on its territory. She is obliged to capture and take care of abandoned animals in animal shelters. This point is going down pretty superficially and in the animal welfare law, where this matter is much better arranged. The amendment and the supplement consists of, namely, asking for and saying that local self-government is required to "a building of an animal collection facility" for positions 1 point 1 of this article. So it's another one of the responsibilities of local self-government, which so far has largely depended on urban utility companies, and they've done it quite successfully, so that the problem of corpses in cities and municipalities, dead animals that no one removes, has almost every local self-government. We add to this proposal amendments that local self-government is required by this facility to build within a year of the adoption of this law. We don't think it's good that members who are so undefined, so it might happen that some local self-government doesn't make such an object in the next 20 years, so we think that local self-government should be given some reasonable deadline to build such an object. What we also resent to the promoter is that he did not predict that several local self-government could build or build a joint facility for the disposal or collection of animal bodies, such as you have that in certain districts of local self-government they have joined together and have common dumps for disposal, so we believe that our amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40041	Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40042	Thank you, Madam President. I'll wait for Mr. Secretary to finish the conversation, so we can communicate. Thank you, Mr. Minister. So, what's the point of amending this law? That's what it says in the explanation, so we can bring some of our standards in line with EU standards. It's okay. But the question is, what did you write in Article 20, or Article 46? You wrote something that confuses elemental logic. In the first part you committed local self-government to building animal collection facilities, and in the second part of that member in the second position there is no such obligation. So instead of improving the law, you wrote a member who completely confuses the one who needs to apply it. If you had listened carefully to Mrs. Donka Banovic, you would have seen what was important, but you didn't listen, you had a lot of work to do. But, Mr. Minister and Madam President, there's been a very strange thing going on in the last few days when we're discussing the law in particular and in principle. A law begins to be discussed, then you have one minister, as was the last item of the agenda, the topic was health laws, and the health minister begins, and then the culture minister continues, followed by the NIP minister, and ends up a minister of sport and youth. So, great. It seems to me that this practice continues to flow. Yesterday we had Mr. Sasu Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, about these agricultural laws, today we have you as Minister of Trade, tomorrow probably Minister of Finance or someone else and one basic question arises – when this kind of debate takes place, do you actually read these laws and do you see what these laws say? Yesterday, for example, in the water law and water licenses, nuclear facilities are being introduced at a small door in Serbia. No one reacts, not the Minister of Agriculture, not the Minister of Ecology, you probably don't know what it says in that law either. You see, when such a situation, when laws are not read, then there's this kind of illogical thing that makes one person bound in one attitude, and in another attitude, it doesn't commit him to anything. Are such laws even necessary? How can one law containing two conflicting provisions be applied in the same article? Give me an explanation. That's consistent with the basic logic and the basic question is – do you even read the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40043	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40044	This is one in a series of amendments submitted by the DSS, because this fictional and non-existent word "traceability" appears in several members of this law, especially at the beginning of the bill, it seems to me, in Articles 1, 4 and 2 etc. Here, it also appears in Article 22, where the proposer believes it should change the term "animal tracking" or "animal tracking" in terms of the wording or the word "traceability of animals". Believe me, if you ask anyone, it doesn't have to be any language expert or professor, which for some ordinary citizen means the word traceability, I don't think anyone living would know. In the light of why you reject these amendments, you say – this is because the word traceability appears in the translations of the European directives that we have translated so far. I went on the Internet and I saw it being translated like that. You feel that such a mistake and that ridiculous word should also enter the laws because some translators there have decided to translate European directives in such a way as to do so. Why can't we follow instead of the word "continuity"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40045	Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Milica Vojić-Markovic first or Milan Dimitrijevic? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40046	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, in one of the amendments, we wrote that a person with a veterinary license that is not in a working relationship can establish, you say a veterinary clinic, a veterinary pharmacy, of course, provided he meets other conditions. We say he can also establish a veterinary station if he meets the conditions regarding facilities, rooms and equipment for the establishment of a veterinary station under Article 17 of this Act and a veterinary clinic, if he meets further conditions. What am I saying that for? Because I've opened up the database and I'm not looking accidentally at the gentleman who brought the answers Mr. Secretary needs to read. We really believe that the register of marked animals is one virtual register because there is no real detachment of stamps and it would be very normal to give the possibility to licensed veterinarians, who are not employed, to have the possibility to establish veterinary cells and veterinary clinics, then to make this register of marked animals live in the right way. It is necessary to introduce, instead of the practice so far, only the registration of animals and the demarcation of stamps, with a view to the existence of a real record of the number and type of marked animals and their traffic, in particular bearing in mind that you are looking for the same thing in Articles 101, paragraphs 3 and 102. Our amendments have their logic, and every thing we've submitted here has its own reasons, which is why they're completely coherent with each other, but with the spirit of the law, they're coherent. We want to fix this law, and that's why our amendments are like this. Our idea, when it comes to any database, is that this database makes sense if it serves the public health of Serbian citizens. This should also serve as a veterinarian’s profession, which should also be served by the Authority. But, unfortunately, everything shows that it's just the other way around, that the registers are completely messy, that this kind of nonsense happens that your animals that have already been slaughtered are being treated with a program of protective measures, which, you must admit, is really unheard of, and then you also have that your databases fall at least 4 to 5 a year and are completely unusable to the profession, and then the veterinarians get killed, because they don't bring in any data and how they carry their business further, that data afterwards appears to be problematic. Furthermore, you say animal owners should be interested in reporting any changes in animal count or otherwise. Then explain to me -- how does "Delta agrar" that, say, has 7,000 throats a year in it, and that's where vets don't come in, just their veterinary services are doing the job, for the last five years they haven't reported any of the only deaths, what's the case for Ginis? It is normal and natural for about 1.5% of the growth to suffer. Is there an answer to that question? Write it down, pal, if you don't want to answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40047	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40048	To this Article 30, and in the old law Article 63 paragraph 5 to change and to read: "The way to report and report infectious diseases, as well as the way to notify the measures taken, is brought by an authorised professional institution". We think it's a better solution, but in the explanation we got here, it's said to be regulated by a sublegal act, and that the minister is responsible for the affairs of the veterans, that person who brings these sublegal acts. I just talked about it and asked a question – are these laws being read? I'm absolutely convinced you can't read it, I get it. To translate this as it says, with some terms introduced probably in the New Serbian language and it is clear that the adoption of sublegal acts falls within the power of the minister. Mr. Minister, it's not just this area that's been burdened by the illegal acts. Many laws that have been passed, which run through this congregation, which are not discussed properly, cry out for sublaws. If you have a little time, look at what the law has been through, and how many sublegal acts have been passed regarding these laws, which should be closer to regulating those laws? Very little, one number. Then the question arises – how does this law apply? It can't be applied, because the ministries don't do their jobs, because they do dry politics, they run in local elections, they promise everything and everything, and what they have to do, they don't. That's what the ministries do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40049	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40050	We've come to the field of animal tagging and it's clear that everyone under this law can mark cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and hooves. The bill already states that animal tagging is being carried out by veterinary clinics, veterinary stations and veterinary services authorized by the Ministry, so I don't see why the Ministry gives exclusive rights to the job to other legal or physical persons involved? Simply, the whole law that needs to be dealt with in a single area such as veterinary and health protection, this area aims to protect the public health of Serbian citizens, which is why other legal and physical persons are now being inserted here if there are already schools that are training staff who will deal with this business, if there are already chambers, licences, ministries and similar institutions? Why is the circle of these, of course, spreading now, I say again, not particularly professional for the job? Because right now we're already coming into the gray area of this area, and we all know that there are such zones, and we just don't want to open up in that direction to find out what's going on. So, who are these other legal or physical persons who will be involved in the marking of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and hooves?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40051	The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40052	So we've marked the animals, and now we're coming to the field of veterinary inspection, which obviously has some problem with this programme of preventive measures to protect animal health. The field is divided, as the vets say, and I heard it here in response, when we spoke in principle from a gentleman. Of course, the field was not divided by experts but divided by those who think they are professional in this work and now we are facing a problem with the programme of preventive measures to protect animal health. There are contractual obligations to implement the programme of measures and these agreed commitments clearly state that this service is charged, because, with the very preventive programme, some other jobs are those for which compensation is actually paid. These are the jobs of stable sheets, stamps, etc. There are in this country a number of veterinary cells that are large and which represent indeed something very valuable for the public health of Serbian citizens, and by the number of employees, and by their work and by the transport of material resources which are and how large and in some local self-governments traffic in these veterinary cells is, for example, greater than the funds of local self-government, and you should know, and now the veterinary inspection prohibits veterinary cells from charging the services they are allowed by the contract you signed with them. They say – if they charge these services, they will no longer get to implement a programme for animal health, which is a program from which pretty much live veterinary cells, although they are not paid for jobs they have done for several years. We had a situation here that veterinarians and strike, warning Serbian citizens that public health is at risk because they can't do their jobs, and they can't do their jobs because the state owes them big money for the jobs they've done. There is no Mr. Micovic to tell us how many veterinarians the director of veterinary cells were with him that Monday after we talked here in principle about this law and where they were all doing research here as it was all well, and the veterinary services organized to warn the one responsible for this job as to how to play with the public health of Serbian citizens. It was very important to say that we get that information and we get the MPs. I do, but the other MPs don't know and the Serbian citizens don't know that the veterinary services asked the Minister of Agriculture and the Director of the Veterinary Administration to take care of what they're doing, because right now this area is in a gray zone. It is in the gray zone because when public service meetings are held, you have an entire area of border areas with Bosnia that participates in cattle smuggling. There is a public channel, about which everyone knows who is doing this job, that the services work to drive our cattle across the Drina in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which then sells them to Croatia. So someone might be able to answer that question. Maybe he could say how to stop it? A few percent of that cattle is marked and has papers, the rest don't have papers, which is even worse. I think we all know that, and we don't need to keep quiet about it. That's what we need to talk about, 'cause it's only then that we can fix the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40053	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40054	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am now listening to this debate and are very interesting amendments that are being proposed. Of course, you do not accept any and it is very regrettable that some things will go their own way, and all is made in accordance with some of the regulations adopted by the European Union. If you were to arrange it at European Union level and as it is in Europe, we would all be overjoyed and we would all support the introduction of a single order into the general chaos of the veterans in Serbia. First, let's discuss one thing. People who care about the wind and are the main people for it in Serbia, they care about everything because they are from the ruling coalition. They're in charge of roads, they're co-owners of travel companies, they process fruits, they have freezers, they have juices, they have whatever they want. We're now making amendments to something very important, and we don't know that we have a corrupt team out there that literally does what they want. Today, the greatest privilege in the veterinary service is to be close to the government or to be close to who decides to give you certain jobs that are necessary, certain vaccines and to pay you in time. Imagine you veterinarians in the Chacan region who is a member of New Serbia and who has been doing an extraordinary job and has been paid nothing for years. The villagers call him, he, a man, helps as much as he can, but he says – people, I have nothing more than that. And some of them who pay off everything in advance, who get big jobs and literally do whatever they want. Now we're talking about some amendments here, about introducing some order into cattle markings. Unfortunately, I have a farm where you're supposed to wait half a year for someone to come and stamp, mark, give a number, introduce etc. Why? Because no one pays the vets. Here, in Braničev County, the purchase of cattle was, the peasants gave, the slaughterhouse deceived them, the privateer deceived them, they have court solutions, they owe the veterinarians, they owe the producers of concentrates, they owe everyone and they can't pay their dues and they completely block the veterinary service because they don't have a solution to pay them. Is it possible that a man who has trucks, a freezer worth millions of euros and has no capital on him – execution is impossible. Therefore, we in the veterinary service have thousands of problems. None of us are getting rid of each other today. We've been looking at the president of the state these days, visiting flooded areas. That's what you've been doing there for years. In one place someone won't clean the canals and now someone's telling us who's been running power there for ten years in that municipality, in Leskovec, and now they're telling us how uncleaned the canal is. Whose organs are these? Why don't they do it? The feces are poured out. All pastures are under feces. Now I'm asking you -- what about cattle from that area, here, in 15 or 20 days? How are we going to do that area, and what are all the infections going to happen there? Who's going to do that? Nobody. A little bit of that house is gonna get in line, here, I hear she's gonna get some stoves again. Those unfortunate stoves are remembered all the time. I don't just know who in the government has such a good business that these stoves appear everywhere, and where the elections are and where they're not, etc. We've got a thousand loose ends. Somebody explain it to the vets. The corn is the cheapest in the last 20 years - eight dinars. The wheat is the cheapest, and the concentrate in my neighborhood is 27 dinars. What's the difference between concentrates, corn and wheat? It's true to add materials that are expensive, but not so much. How much are those producers taxing? Don't let me count on it. Thus, there are extremely big problems in the veterinary service, and no one is paying attention to it. That's why we're totally destroying the stock fund. We won't have in the villages now malted cows. Here, already the tow bulls are gone, the heroes are gone, the calves are going to slaughter like a calf, because it's the most profitable to give the calf, immediately sell it, insert it into further production. All the farms are shrinking. I don't know, Minister, do you remember that action when we were getting cows for 2,300 euros? Now these cows are sold for the price of milk that went down for twice, and the oil is only collected in a year by 39 dinars, sold for 900 dinars. It was sad to say the other day and listen when that peasant there on some agriculture show explains how the best buyers of these racial tally cows are dog breeders who buy and feed dogs. So, where does this country go? What's this about? You will bring a mass, a mountain of some laws, adopt them, boast – we have passed 300, 500, 2,000 laws, and in agriculture every day is worse and worse. Food - none. You're giving some control centers. Let's just get some fruit. Is it normal for a plum certificate to be obtained in Vienna? It is known which end are the largest producers and breeders of plum varieties, that I do not speak now about what is happening in the veterinary service. Here you should be in the ruling party, be close to the competent people who are responsible for the veterinary and that they give you, because they pay their veterinarians all in advance, and those who are not theirs, I know very well Zoran Micovic, he is not ashamed when he comes to the field and says, "You know who you are, you can't do that, you know where to come," those are the words of Zoran Micovic. When you get where you need to go, you'll get paid. I know it well and it is, unfortunately, so. It totally destroys Serbia, destroys and we can talk here, I see people trying very hard to give amendments, to do it a little bit, to weigh as much as possible, but there's nothing. The pharmaceutical mafia is progressing. She created a miracle in the world, even in Serbia. It's the main mob in the world today. So, in front of the drugs comes the pharmaceutical mob. You've seen vaccines for the people we've had now, some swine flu, what's going on here I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40055	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. (Velimir Ilic, from the site: Imagine the vaccines for people. ) The 43rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. (Velimir Ilic, from the place: Ma'am, I had more time.) ) You have eight minutes and 15 seconds left. You used it all the time. Srdjan Spasojevic was an authorised representative and spoke so that there was so much time left, eight minutes and 15 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40057	Madam President, first of all, I'd like to take a look at this part, and we've got an additional 11 minutes, and we've got 15 minutes for authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40058	No, you have within the group for five minutes and Mr. Velimir Ilic has spent the entire time of the authorised representative, it was you who spoke until this moment, so a total of 11 minutes less these eight minutes and 15 seconds. You can come back later and take a look, we've got exactly the record when anything happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40059	In Article 43 relating to Article 84(4), paragraph 4 is deleted. The explanation - the marking of animals must be controlled, but it is certainly necessary to provide for the possibility that natural persons, within their holdings, may be able to internally mark animals. At the end of this debate in particular, we want to show dissatisfaction practically that no amendments submitted by New Serbia, and mostly other opposition parties, have been accepted. These amendments, which we have written, are part of the opinion of the professional public, were held on 22 December 2009, a public debate and the proposed things that we have put forward and these proposals in our amendments are part of the really professional public. Of course, the gathering also expressed great dissatisfaction with these suggestions. Finally, I will say once again that the legislative proposal, therefore, is a proposal to amend and supplement this law, in which 30 members should be withdrawn from the procedure, a new law should be made because the whole of the law is being broken, which allows for complete discontinuity. We don't have a clear idea of what this law is, what's going to happen to this new binding proposal, so there's going to be a complete mess in veterinary services.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40060	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40061	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the parliamentary group that is still untapped. I want to say a word about this law, as a graduate agricultural engineer. I don't think it's time for some big replicas, but here, very often, some people qualify in a way that is not exactly suitable for this lofty home, and at the same time the laws are criticised by the ruling majority, more from the positions of criticism, in order to challenge all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and all those laws that this parliament is making, and less from the point of view of some reasoned criticism. I think this law is necessary, amending the law and supplementing this law and passing all these laws that we have at present in the debate, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia. It is true that the wind is in a difficult position, as is the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. It is not agriculture in the Republic of Serbia in a difficult position since yesterday or the day before yesterday, either since the start of the government's mandate or calling on this parliament. Agriculture in Serbia has suffered for many years the consequences of the general poverty of society. Our agricultural producers didn't poverty overnight. The prices of corn are what they are because last year was the most native in the history of Serbian agriculture since World War II, so to speak. When we talk about the assessment of the concentrate, as a graduate agricultural engineer, I know that the price of the concentrate includes both the price of soybean and the price of certain other products of protein origin, animal origin, that the price of concentrate includes packaging and labour costs. When we talk about the price of milk, the price of milk varies from end to end of Serbia. That's what I said last time in this lofty home to fellow MPs. In the fishing river valley in Krusevec, the price of milk is currently the highest in Serbia because there is a milk producer called "Ecomlek" there, paying milk producers full price of milk in the day, all the premiums the state gives. There, agricultural producers are racing who will have more cattle. At the farm fair in Novi Sad, they hold the most prestigious prizes. Collections of cattle of the symental race from the Fishing River have been evaluated many times. Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic visited the area several times as a minister of agriculture. Mr. Zoran Micovic, as a kind of veterinarian and expert, also came there. And it wasn't Zoran Micovic who came to the Veteran Authority because he was a party chamber or because he was picked up under a tent or from some roastery, but because he was the owner of the first private veterinary clinic, he enjoyed a huge reputation in the Republic of Serbia among fellow veterinarians. It is true that the Republic of Serbia owes the veterinarians some money to implement the programme of measures, but the debt did not arise, I say, during the term of office of this government, that debt has long existed towards those veterinarians. I cannot accept that the programme of measures is allocated to veterinary cells by taking out the names and names of those people who will carry out the programme and the names of those institutions they will carry out. For those who were not referred, I was president of the commission who did this job and I think we did this job very professionally. Because that's not what I'm saying, that's what the Veterinary Chamber says, whose president also sat with us. Money for the measure programme shall be due to all veterinary cells, whether veterinarians and owners of those veterinary cells are members of political parties or not members of political parties and shall be paid evenly as the inflow from the Republic budget arrives. Of course, while the ages and the world will be trying to create certain abuses, but of course the state of Serbia has mechanisms to prevent and sanction abuse. It is true that the veterinary and pharmaceutical lobby is strong everywhere in the world. I'm not gonna call him a mob, and I'm not gonna call him a mob, and I'm not gonna call those who charge tolls, and in certain ways, stealing and stealing, I'm not gonna call the mob. Everyone has the right to attempt to fool the state and must not be angry with the state if it is discovered, caught and brought before the court. And such, thank God, will be more and more, because we laws in this House don't bring people in Europe to like and to screw up villages or agricultural producers. We make laws to live and that the state of Serbia will have in its hands the sword of justice, and in its eyes a bond and a sauce on which they will measure who and how much he has sinned against the state and who and how much punishment he will receive. Believe me, the state of Serbia will have the strength to place on that cantar to which it is owed on that cantar and to repay it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40062	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, first. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40063	I wanted to say a few words because there's a lot more insult to the MPs and the insult of every MP from the opposition who says something. They immediately report to duty to cover it up, cover it up, and turn it into a story about how it's all the most, the most. This is what the villagers know best about. I'd like to say one thing. Mr. Micovic, when he received the municipality of Arilla as mayor, had 7,000 male cows in the municipality of Arilla. There are MPs from Ariel and they can confirm it. Now there are 2,000 cows. 5,000 male cows are gone. This shows concern, development, crisis, veterinary services and everything that happens, and in Serbia there are more niggers in certain environments. I wouldn't want to mix all kinds of mobs, listings, stitching. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, if you have paper for something, take out the paper and show it. Don't just talk. You are now taking more care of Cera Mila than you are of all Serbia. That's nice, but ask what happened to the dog till the end. Examine. Please, there are people who say a lot of things on the subject. So you're using everything for the campaign and it's all about your campaign. We have on-calls here who always appear as part of some campaign and insult MPs who are honest, honest and reasoned with the facts that this high house needs to solve to make Serbia feel better, not to blur the eyes of the people, to tell stories. Mr. Ilic, it's been two minutes. You've abused the Bureau's breach institute. You haven't called any members. ) Article 104, I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40064	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40065	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not speak of justice, of the sword, of the tea, of the wind. I'm glad we finally heard who the man who shares the field with the veterinary services is, and that's something we've managed to hear these days, which is important. About how successful this is to tell him about the visit to Mr. Director of the Veterinary Authority, where all the directors of the veterinary cells were to tell him to thank him for what was very successful. I have one thing here that I would like to comment on before I move on to that argumented, well-intentioned and with a proposal on how to fix it. I've got that, too. I will read to you one part of the Decision on the criteria for the evaluation and the way in which the registration of legal persons taking part in the competition for the entry into force of the 2010-2012 action programme. Point ''9) of the application of legal persons who have lost the right to perform their jobs under the animal health care programme (I remind you that the programme has lost this too, as I have read. Why did he lose? By writing to Micovic a solution to losing his right, and in 8/10, she wrote an inspection all the same. ) were engaged in illicit activities within the framework of veterinary action or carried out veterinary activities contrary to the Veterinary Act, and, in accordance with the Law on Veterinary Use, a penalty is provided for the imposition of a protective measure against the exercise of veterinary activity, whether or not it has been imposed on a legal person or not, it will not be considered. '"Be careful, please, I'm talking about justice. By the way, he says, whether a sentence has been imposed on a legal person or not, his application will not be considered. Wait, is that man guilty if he doesn't have a ticket? How did we find out he was guilty if he didn't have a ticket? You can't do that, gentlemen. This is a state of law. I fully agree with Mr Milivojevic, and I fully agree that a state of law must be tightened, but it cannot be a legal state if the 9th document written by the Department of Health of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management says it will not be taken care of whether someone is guilty or not. It's important that we put a label on him. Is it going to be a party? Never mind. I'm saying it's a party. So if someone's guilty, then he's guilty, then let's take away his right to do the measuring program. But if he's not guilty, you have to consider his application, because it can't be that someone is guilty at the same time and not guilty. I'm going back to the veterinary inspection. Veterinary inspection does what's required, because it's obvious here in the case that I read to you at the beginning that a certain veterinary station was ordered to close. Two days after the minister wrote a solution to the closure, that veterinary inspection did the job she did. Veterinary stations that are large, strong and powerful, which have authority, should be closed so that some other legal or physical persons you introduce into the law get to do a programme of measures, which is a big job, on which depend veterinary stations, veterinary clinics and so forth, but the public health of Serbian citizens is threatened. That's the question we need to take care of. So, in point 9) of the very clear document of the Ministry, I assume that the associates who came here today know what it is, it says nicely that the application of those persons to whom it is said – whether they are given a legal person or not, will not be considered. Will someone explain what this is about? There's no one, obviously. That's why no one came from the Veterinary Authority today. No one came to answer this question, but that's why we have a man who's head of the board of directors, so we expect to get a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40066	According to the amendment, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40067	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, when we talk about the programme of measures the government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and this job is entrusted to certain veterinary stations and when we talk about the work of the commission that set out the criteria for which someone will receive the job, the commission has been managed, above all, with several parameters. Some of them are professions, professions, morals, but first of all, in order to have the right state of what's really going on on in the field, we haven't read "Tabloid" or any other daily tabloid magazine or weekly, we've already read reports of commissions that made up veterinary inspections on the ground. Veterinary inspections are not party inspections, veterinary inspections are not party authorities, veterinary inspections are the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. They are set up by certain state bodies, and these inspections carry out the work in a very professional way. In a very professional way, they report to the Commission how many veterinarians have left a particular veterinary station, whether the veterinary station has a certain number of veterinarians, because it is prescribed how many cattle a veterinarian can examine and how much he cannot. This was the first and basic criterion for a particular veterinary cell to lose or obtain a programme of measures, whether it has human resources to meet the requirements and criteria set out. The second criterion was the number of throats examined in a specific unit of time by that veterinary cell. Whoever did not meet that criterion, whether or not he had the appropriate number of veterinarians, whether he had or did not have the appropriate resources, if he did not carry out the entrusted work within the specified time limit, he lost the opportunity to implement the measurement programme. The court does not rule on this, the court may decide eventually on complaints, but the control of the work on the ground, the care of public health of people and animals is carried out by certain inspection bodies. That's what the law says. The law was passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who is not satisfied with the solution of a veterinary inspection has the right to be angry. When it comes to Mr. Micovic, whether he is successful or not, the best court has given citizens of Aryl. He barely won four times as a candidate for the president of the municipality and was barely 12 years old. Then the man said, "This is where I proved myself." The number of throats and the number of cows in Ariel may have decreased, but Arile was certainly profiled on the map, not Serbia, but Europe as the city from which the most red treasure is exported annually – the raspberries. The prices of raspberries may have been oscillant at some point and gone up or down, but it certainly did find its place on the agricultural map, not to say Serbia, but to Europe. I will end up with a folk proverb from my grandfather Dučalovic's hometown. Dučalovici is a beautiful village under Ovcara, on the border between the Chačan, Poževska and the Lucan municipality. They have a lot of these streams, so there's these streams of water, and they say, "Whereon one water grinds, it stays."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40068	By amendment, Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40069	Replica. I find it very strange when someone who isn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40070	To be clear, you have five more minutes from your parliamentary group. You didn't get the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40071	Here, three minutes, no problem. It makes me very uncomfortable that people who have never been in livestock begin to lecture people who have been doing it for years and begin to explain to us how it should be done, that someone who sold sausages in a kiosk starts to explain to the meat producer how it should work and how it should work in the country, etc. I am very pleased that you are so confident, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that all this is going well, however, in the field the situation is not so. You have the most difficult condition since World War II to date. It's completely destroyed the stock fund. Why? That's what you have to ask around. Why argentinean meat? Why Brazil chicken? Why pork from Hungary? Why is meat imported without certain quality certificates etc? I can tell you here quite responsibly, I've been dealing with cattle for years and never in my life, and let me confirm any inspection, I can say that in one area I'm one of the major producers, I've never seen one inspector come into the field. I'd like to see him somewhere tell me where he exists and where he's going and what he helped. The inspector never came, no republican, no one. There comes a vet at a call that knocks me out of what I was saying, telling me about a difficult situation in the veterinary service. Let me just finish one thing. Recently, one road has been completed between Ariel, the village of Dragosinci, and now for the trumpet in Guca needs to be joined by some exercises at Guca. There were two or three kilometers left unconnected, and it ended about 20 or 20 kilometers and it was all done. Mr. Mrkonjic approved that it should be combined because it makes no sense not to join two municipalities and that the people travel hundreds of kilometers. Mr. Micovic came out and said – he can't, and it's not connected yet. Why? Because people get involved in everything and everything, in roads, and we all know who is co-owner of the Ways of Ivanica and who is co-owner of the Roads in that area. We know that perfectly, and we know where these roads work and what companies and how and how, and we know how the freezer and the juice factory failed, and what it did there by a certain manufacturer who worked and produced, and who it destroyed and why it destroyed it. We know, sir, your friend has a famous one for questioning at the Medic Lab, one of the largest clinics where dozens of people work, etc. And we know everything. Don't tell us stories. These party tasks of yours, which you tell the authority that all of this is going well, how nice it is, it leads you and it leads Serbia to great problems. It takes us all together into one sink. You solve those problems if you can solve them. You know, sir, not to repeat your name, since you know it all, you're a know-it-all, who sold the Croats a handball game and that's where the man got married. You expect him to save an animal? Well, please don't. He didn't save Serbia, embarrass it, sell the game to the Croatians. All the newspapers were writing. You don't know that. Well, let me remind you. You'd better get to know some of your guys that you swear on here. So it's not as bright as you say it is. There's a lot of bad things you need to open up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40072	Time's up. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has a word within the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40073	Your Honor, Madam President, I will continue to use the time of the parliamentary group I would like to hear how much it is. (Milica Vojić-Markovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40074	I'm sorry, Mr. Milivoevich, I mean, it wasn't much, you explained it to each other, but here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40075	Right on the line, because the gentleman said some things, I want to supplement those things to the public doing. So what I've got in my hands and I'm reading, as much as it sounds like a tabloid document. He was signed by Dr. Sasha Dragin. It's a document from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. He sounds tabloid, because he says whether you're guilty or not you're not going to get what you're entitled to under the law, that sounds like a confession. Secondly, there's another document, another thing that's important for the gentleman to read, on the website of the veterinary chamber. The site says that the chairman of the Veterinary Chamber's Management Board takes his opinion out of what he allegedly signed and that he signed under political pressure. Visit the site, read if I made any of it up. I'm just saying there's no clean stuff here, and you look.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40076	Mr. Milivoevich, re-apply, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40077	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have lived 45 years and graduated from the Faculty of Agriculture as one of the best students of my generation. I haven't worked very hard in the field of agricultural recognition. I've only had a pig farm for 22 years, so I've learned something. The first thing I've learned, maybe the one who makes hot dogs doesn't know much about livestock, but I sure know a lot more than the one who studies cattle through the rotational movement of lambs at Dragish's in the roastery. Also, he knows a lot more about livestock than he who consumes hot dogs. However, this is still a lofty home, this is not Dragisha's roaster, and here we are talking about improving livestock, veterinary, and here we are talking about people who study professions not by consummating the subject of their study in abundance, but by studying the profession through the prism of impact or ineffectiveness on the ground. The effect on the ground may not be satisfactory, especially from certain veterinary clinics. And again, I'm underestimating, not Secretary Sasa Dragin, I'm not estimating it, it's not the President of the Veterinary Chamber. That's what veterinary inspection does on the ground. Anyone who is not satisfied with the effect of the veterinary inspection has the right, the possibility, has the legitimate right to refer the complaint to the work of the inspection bodies. Anyone who says there have been irregularities in the distribution of the terrain for a programme of measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the field of animal health has the right to consider corruption or irregularities, to refer criminal charges to the Prosecutor's Office, to report to the competent state authorities. Anyone who says he was under any kind of pressure and because of this pressure now changes the opinion and decision he signed also has the right to make a request to the competent state authorities to reconsider the situation. Anyone who thinks that the state of Serbia is unable to implement the programme of measures and to protect health and animals and people, anyone who thinks that veterinarians fill out those forms by not going out at all, also has the right to apply against those veterinarians. Anyone who thinks handball games are being sold and the Shinobuses and trains are being purchased through the boutiques has the right to prove these qualifications to the competent judicial authorities. I have the right to protect my profession, and what I learned in college, and what I did for barely 22-23 years, and that's only half my life, I admit, I wanted to do a lot more, but the circumstances were such that I didn't do much. I barely won twice with my exposed throats at the Newsad Fair, and I think it speaks more of the results of my work than the need to say anything here in the Serbian Parliament. But again, I underline, the obligation of a man who has graduated from the Faculty of Agriculture, the obligation of a man who has finished his veterinary work is to defend his profession and profession, not to carry out party tasks, no matter how difficult, unpleasant, but not impossible. But, of course, a man who faces the blow of people who encounter professions and professions without arguments is an accomplice to the attack on his profession. And for the end, it's easy to teach everyone today. I've recently been to a circus, I've seen, I don't know if people are vets or trainers, but I've seen a bear ride a bike, I've seen elephants play football. It's easy to teach a man today who doesn't really want to learn, but the hardest thing to do is to teach a man who wants to teach others lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40078	You have no more time, Mr. Markicevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40079	Honorable president, I'm advertising Article 27, running this session. I would like you to explain to both me and your fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and also to the citizens who are watching this transmission who is the minister here. While the opposition criticises and gives amendments, the minister present, Mr Milosavljevic, smiles and air-conditioned, sees it as a sign of approval. He can't say anything now. Now we have another Mr. Milivojevic who turns out to be a minister. So explain to us who the Minister of Agriculture really is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40080	You know what, if we keep talking like this, I'll be able to respect the Rules of Procedure, you well know who the motionary is, who the minister is, and this question of yours is damaging the reputation of parliament. I'm warning you, I'll give you a warning. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Zoran Nikolic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40081	We're going back to the other area. I'm going to try to explain what we wanted to achieve, and I'm going to say it like that, not so eloquently, but that it's very argumentable, I'm saying it's well intentional, and I'm saying that we did it to improve the law. Here's the thing. You give the vet an opportunity to vaccinate dogs and cats against rabies in the infirmary, you write. Now that's quite clear to me, because you said immediately in the light of the law that you are amending the law, that the law should be brought into line with EU directives. I guess it's clear to you that there are different laws than we are and there is one long period of time that these laws apply there. Here, first of all, I'm talking about the vaccination of dogs and cats against rabies. The possibility that a veterinary clinic only in the infirmary is to vaccinate dogs and cats against rabies is possible, but in cities where you have a known owner who has a need, a legal obligation and takes care of his pet and he will vaccinate his dog or cat. It's not possible in the suburbs. In the rural area, it's completely impossible. Anyone who deals with practice knows it's completely impossible. One thing is to copy from the EU and try to raise standards with us, but another thing is to make sure that what we wrote in the law is enforceable on the ground and to be in favour of protecting public health. Now, regardless of whether it's a compliance with the EU Directive and the rules that have been adopted, we think that this is how it's written quite problematic and we suggest that it be fixed, because rabies should be treated as other infectious diseases, where, as a prevention of their prevention and spread, it is used by systematic vaccination on the ground. In other words, it should be possible for veterinary services to do dog and cat vaccination on the ground against rabies. This means that there must be no restrictions on the right of veterinary clinics to carry out regular annual preventive vaccination against dog and cat rabies on the ground. That's why our amendment was put in that direction. I think it's extremely well-intentioned and I don't think there's any comment here right now that we're not going to suggest what's in favor of this law and the situation on the ground. That's just fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40082	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40083	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 53 provides for the sale of livestock only in registered collection centres, cattle markets and buying places. I suggested that cattle sales be allowed in livestock-holding facilities, owners' estates, and in the places where cattle are carried out. In this way, a tradition and practice that has existed for centuries would be respected and will objectively be unable to change any law. The proposed legal solution will affect thousands of cattlemen, especially in mountain-mounted areas, especially the most I think of the cave highlands. In many parts of Serbia, there will be no cattle markets, collecting centres or buying places, on the one hand, anytime soon. On the other hand, you have places where markets or ransom places are a few tens of kilometers away from the stockholder’s seat. It is absurd to force the owner to drive a calf, for sale, from a place that is 20km from Tutina to the city, for this is a problem and represents additional financial expenditure. Whoever wants to sell the calf at the market is simply forced, literally conditioned, to make the sale on the first day after going down to the market, because it is not worth it the second time or the third time paying for transportation. It will in any case affect the lower price of cattle. The next reason I submitted the amendment is the fact that in mountainous areas many owners, especially in the summer months, do pastures on pastures, on mountains, in the katuns, and I believe that these people should be allowed to sell cattle in those places.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40084	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic. Mrs. Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40085	This amendment of ours refers to an existing member of the law a hundred, and it speaks of how an animal gathering license is obtained. So, it talks about when someone wants to organize – an animal exhibition, an animal competition, an event with traveling animals, so circuses, fairs, traveling zoos, etc. It's all out of a certain business space. When an organization or an individual wants such an event to organize, he has to ask for special permission from the Ministry. The appearance of that permit is prescribed by the minister himself and the permit is issued for a period of 30 days. This was the case so far in the law, with this article changing in these changes and additions, which adds a new attitude that says: "The places where events of this type are organised are the titles". We suggest that no such change be made, that that proposed position 6 should not become part of this article. Namely, you're making an absolute mistake, because now you're introducing the word "mastership." I know certain meadows, sports fields, etc. where animal exhibits take place, let's say the indigenous species of the Old Mountain, and these are terrains, they're not in any case land. Registered holdings are those holdings that have a permit that's been valid for a year. You're here to say that these lordships, namely, become masters after this law of yours, which have been authorised for 30 days. That's how you make an absolute mistake. In response, you say it's very important to monitor the movement of animals, etc. I fully appreciate that, but you can also follow that by asking for permission. I guess when you give someone permission, even if it's been valid for 30 days, you can track all these activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40086	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 57th amendment. He has the word Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40087	This is about a fully well-intentioned amendment – that the words "in the approved slaughterhouses" are added in attitude 1 to the words "in accordance with the law". You rejected the amendment, not you, Mr Milosavljevic, but the competent minister and his commission, referring us again to the sublegal act – that it was regulated by sublegal acts. I was just saying, a few minutes ago, what these sublegal acts mean and where these sublegal acts are in a series of laws. So it's only about one cap, and in spite of sincere intention to improve the law, to specify the law, to arrange, to be clear to everyone, to refuse such amendments. Speaking of sublaws and how are they brought and whether there are or not? Mr. Minister, did you hear about the meat from Brazil that appears on our market – you heard, right? There is a law that should prevent it – it exists. Why isn't it applied? What happens to chicken from other countries, completely out of control? The law does not apply, so you will bring in sublaws, only spoiling and throwing dust into your eyes. You write a law that cannot be applied, you get suggestions to fix the law and, so harshly and rudely, you reject the opposition's amendments, and you have a series of problems that arise in the state and you won't solve them. That's the essence of this ministry's work, including your ministry. This is not good what you're doing, Mr. Minister, it's not good and it's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40088	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40089	It is an amendment to the proposal of Article 58, otherwise it relates to Article 102 of the existing law. This article details how the official control of animals before and after slaughter is carried out, by modifying and supplementing them so that the maltenes complete this member with these changes and additions are changed. So it seems to me that none of the views have been left out of the existing law. We believe that it is necessary to add these proposed changes and additions – that it is preferable to the animal to verify the identification of the animal and that the examination of the relevant identification document must be carried out by the veterinarian. You say in response here – if this slaughterhouse is approved, it is understood. I wish I did, but in practice, it happens that veterinarians don't check out that animal that goes to slaughter, so very often they send graving cows to slaughter, which is inadmissible. So we believe that here we need to sharpen and make it clear that in slaughterhouses, before any slaughter, a valid examination by the veterinarians must be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40090	Representatives Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40091	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the end of these amendments in this area is coming to an end. I can't miss without saying a few very important things concerning Serbia's veterinary chamber. Just to comment that we were expecting, when we saw that there were amendments and additions to the law, that this law would be so-called. Krnjaić's law is changed in the direction of repairing the position of the veterinary chamber, as this Krnjaić law underestimated the veterinary chamber and placed it under the patronate of the state. And the one who should be a professional association couldn't support either the profession or the science in that position, but simply had to listen to the minister. Every country that holds to seriousness really takes care not to interfere where it's not her job, and the job she's supposed to be doing chamber, professional association, that job she's doing. I had the opportunity to hear in several places when the Minister or his assistants said that they were experiencing the Chamber as a partner institution, as an institution of partnership constantly, but the Chamber cannot be by definition a partner because it is neither a state nor a para-state body, but it is a professional association that defends the principles of the profession. That's what I can support Mr. Milivojevic in, the point is that he has to say what's possible, and what's not because of this thing I've read, these decisions and other things are exactly the comments of the profession. As a MP, I was in a situation just to say what the profession required of me, so the veterinary profession required of me. The amendments and additions to this law did not go in the direction of repairing the position of the Chamber, but even more humiliated the Chamber and the veterinary profession. That's a state-of-the-art situation. Various lobbies, pharmaceuticals, cattle, have pushed their people into the Chamber, and now those from that position are making certain decisions that are in no way in the direction of improving the quality of public health of Serbian citizens, not in the direction of improving the quality of the profession, the working conditions of the profession and everything else, but are simply there to listen to the state and possibly say on the site that they do not agree with some decision that must be groundless. I mentioned this decision just before Minister Dragina, which really doesn't need to be discussed that we're serious people. Unfortunately, we in the Serbian Parliament need to discuss a decision signed by the Serbian minister who calmly says – whether you are guilty, whether you are not guilty, who cares, there is an application against you, and on that basis I will have the opportunity to decide as I will. So, the whole story comes down to changing and supplementing the law by talking about whether we're going to replace the tracking with traceability, not whether we're going to restore the position the Chamber needs to have, that it's not the state body that's here in this law. I'm sorry, she's a state organ, and she can't be, by definition, a chamber state organ. That's the essence of this story, and I'd like someone, I don't know who, to comment on what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40092	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, who wants a word, and Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40093	This is one of the amendments, and we have several similar ones, where we suggest that the current term remain, not official controls, but that it remains a veterinary-sanitary control of food of animal origin, because this article in 106 applies to that. In the current law, there is veterinary-sanitary control, not official control, because we believe that official controls and too broad terms are and that it can mean anything, that there should remain veterinary-sanitary control. This appears in several members. We've been asking you to keep it the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40094	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40095	It's just amazing that when an amendment is given to solve the problem this law has created, or the writer of this law, that these amendments are rejected. Mr. Minister, let's make sense like this to think. What is it for you and what is the word: official control or veterinary control when we talk about the Veterinary Act? Can you give me that answer? You can't. It's logical that veterinary control is a narrow term and that it explains it closer. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, what's the point of passing the law? To regulate an area, but also to regulate and limit the will and will of an individual. How one law cannot limit an individual's will. When the minister is appointed to this official note signed by him, which individuals claim to be a tabloid thing, this is the public of Serbia to see what a tabloid signed by the minister looks like, then you have the will of an individual. Then why do we need the law? What is the purpose of law-making, if the will of an individual is stronger than the law? What do we need the Assembly for anyway? There's a minister who owns everything, regardless of the law. Why are we even discussing laws like this, if the individual's will is so strong? Then what's the big deal anyway? Shall we put individuals within the framework of the law? Will the time come in Serbia or will the individual's will continue to be the law? It also shows these decisions that we have ahead of us, with the signature of the official who is above the law. That's the kind of law you make.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40096	The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40097	The chairman, it is very important because I think Serbian citizens should know that there are parliamentary groups that are very seriously preparing the laws, amendments are writing very seriously and we should deal with this because none of our amendments have been accepted. Since this is slowly coming to an end, I'd like to give one general picture, because it's important to hear it. We have situations in this country that at this point around 2,700 veterinarians are doing a job that needs to be done by over 25,000 people. We have a situation that privatised veterinary cells and that privatisation is completely unsuccessful because the consortiums that bought the veterinary cells lead only in the direction of profit, naked earnings, in order to survive rather than in favour of public health for the citizens of Serbia. By the way, I asked in principle, and I'm going to ask again, since no one answered me, you in article 53 of the veterinary station, so I'm just wondering how many of these public veterinary stations you have, since it was mandatory privatisation? How did they survive? What were the criteria for them to survive? It would be nice for someone to answer, but then again, there's no one to answer, so I'm gonna have to answer. The only one of those big cells left, stayed in Kruševec, say veterinarians have powerful protectors. The only one left is a large veterinary station that's not privatized. Next, we have a transport of veterinary drugs that is completely in the gray economy zone. It's not better in the human medicine zone either, but the fact that these are such conditions is because we're talking about this law. We're having an affair at the Department of Agriculture. I'll speak in the veterinary domain. You have this famous story about 500 virtual stamps that exist on the base, but they don't exist among animals. Some of them speak to you in public, and you tell them that you will abolish their right to survive, as you do to them. It's an interesting competition for the restoration of genetic resources. It's a very interesting thing because it is good and desirable and we really need to preserve our plant varieties and our animal species that are typical of our climate. It's so interesting that, for example, for the genetic resource of our indigenous cattle, the Bush was given the money of a gentleman from Vojvodina. It would be interesting to explain to those who don't know that the drill is an indigenous beef from the Raska area, a mountain hilly area, so it's a little strange that it works very well in Vojvodina. And that's what someone needs to answer, and there's no one. I asked that question in public, to be told exactly who it was for, and I never got an answer. So that's where the wind is today, although veterinary practice is the strategic axis of food production. Any serious country amending and supplementing the law should just move in the direction proposed by the DSS parliamentary group. So it is an EU regulation that we need to pursue, high standards are desirable and necessary, but they must be applicable to us. So, take care of it, because it will improve our practice, but make sure you keep a high school that educates vets and saves the vets to do their jobs, let them do their job legally, so that something can be done in this country, because we are a agricultural country and our future is in organic food exports. Everyone agrees. You won't keep them if the jobs that vets are supposed to do, you say that veterinary technicians should do, by using a licensed veterinarian, who in some way is the responsible person, to teach them to do some jobs, and above which jobs you write, etc. It can't be in the law of any kind, because it means nothing to anyone but space for very broad manipulation. These amendments and additions to the laws that you have put before us are indeed below each level and show only one thing – you want to punish the veterinarians who have rebelled responsibly and told the Serbian public that they are not blind listeners to the authorities but are people of professions that respect the principles of professional ethics and work for the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40098	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40099	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Minister, I will continue to be in the position of the profession because, underlining, I am a graduate farming engineer and I am carefully reading the items that we receive here and I am carefully reading all the material we receive for the session of the Assembly, and I listen very carefully to what my colleagues and colleagues say. The path that this reform government has, which is plotted and which we pass these laws, does not serve to make us boast and drill into the chest that we have passed so many or so laws. The law was passed only when it came to life in practice. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not propose laws, this parliament does not adopt those laws in order for us to satisfy the form and to say, if someone is counting on a device called the computer, how many votes there are in Arangelovac, and how many laws have been passed in the Serbian Parliament, let them say that we have passed these laws not to satisfy the number, form, but to satisfy the essence, to improve the quality of life in this country. On the other hand, we hear that some do not like the direction the Republic of Serbia is going and that they have some direction. That direction they're offering is good, because that's the direction, if we follow it as a state and as a people, we can't stray, it doesn't lead anywhere. But the direction of reform, the direction of change, the direction of harmonisation of our legislation with European legislation aims, not to harass the citizens of this country, not to harass peasants and agricultural producers, not even to harass what these people are producing, is aimed at preparing us for a competition that is free in this Europe. We can remain an isolated island and grow our mangull and our well just for us, but the one who bought the newspaper today saw that the English from Serbia had imported the mangull and kept it in the London Zoo. They didn't say – no, it shouldn't be grown in London, it's from Serbia, they said – it looks good with those Serbs and let's take what's good with them and bring them here to England. If the English aren't ashamed of something that's best from Serbia, which we have as a recognizable brand on that island, what are we ashamed of ourselves for trying to protect and preserve?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40100	There's no basis for replication, but you have a minute and a half. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40101	I don't want to sing, I don't want to recite, I don't want to say proverbs, I'm just going to read what's written. This is where this law goes. Point 9) of the document of the Ministry of Agriculture: "The application of legal persons who, during the previous three years, have lost the right to carry out operations under the animal health programme, engaged in illicit activities within the framework of veterinary activity or carried out veterinary activities contrary to the Veterinary Act, and for the work done, in accordance with the Veterinary Law, the penalty for the provision of a protection measure to prohibit the exercise of veterinary activity, whether or not it is imposed on a legal person, shall not be considered". That's what I'm talking about, sir. That direction is the one going to ruin. About how you run this country and where this country is headed with this government, what is best said responsibility and what has been said here today – are we going to tell our citizens how to feed themselves? Tell them how to feed at all, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40102	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, within the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40103	For those who don't want to hear it, I'll be free to read one of the records, without stating the name of the veterinary station that it's about, but some will be recognized, because many people in this room recognize themselves even though you don't ask them anything and don't mention them, you don't say a word about them, they recognize themselves. The fact is that in Serbia, I guess we choose judges, and the defendants always report and recognize themselves. Now I'll read you what the record says. The record says this: A programme of measures was taken by one veterinary station, which it received from the government of the Republic of Serbia for the following reason. This veterinary station has three veterinarians, but only on paper. Undoubtedly, multiple controls have been found that a twin brother sells "kirby fresh" vacuum cleaners in Belgrade and does not live in the territory where the veterinary station implements the programme of measures. And this same vet who's running the program gives the record to the citizens like this. It charges the programme for the protection of bovine animals against tuberculosis to agricultural producers, although the state of Serbia is already paying for it. So he's double-sumping. One tariff for peasants, the other for the state of Serbia and for real abuse. He expects to regain the programme of implementing the measures, while issuing a receipt to agricultural producers in the area who are not ashamed to write: "I went uphill in the snow for two kilometers and also came down on foot. That's how much it costs." He expects to implement a programme of measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia and expects it to always have its lawyers to defend it, and always expects it to have its own people to defend its state interest. Because the state interest he's been formulating through that receipt is to take the peasant's skin off his back, if the state can pinch, great. You know, when someone pinches you, it hurts and you say "her." In addition, you have mechanisms to defend yourself against the one who pinches the state pocket and who pinches the state wallet. He who is a representative of the state, who is unable to protect and protect the state's property, should not protect the state's interest, he should not speak on behalf of the state, but defend himself on his own behalf, rather than have his own lawyers to do the job. We as a national parliament showed last year that money in parliament is being saved. Whatever you say about parliament, we've saved up a certain amount of money. And with these laws, money will begin to be saved. Maybe someone suspects it, maybe someone suspects my words, maybe someone will say it—he's a demagogue, he talks this or that, but mathematics is an exact science. When you draw the line, you add the numbers, at the end of the year you know how much you've saved and how much you haven't saved. We know that here in Parliament. We have made this information public, we know that in the programme of measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia, we also know who is and how much of the state has pinched Serbia. If he expects someone to take a magic wand into his hand and give him a re-implementation of the measure programme, he must know that the magic wand will turn into a stick of the state, which will be hit by the state of Serbia on the fingers of anyone who is a stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40104	Mrs Vojić-Markovic, you have 25 seconds left No, that's what I decide. You don't have the right to a replica. [[Milica Vojic-Markovic, from the post: Right to Replication, alluded to being a lawyer.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40105	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, violation of Parliament's dignity. I think it's completely inappropriate to call an opposition MP who speaks very clearly, very clearly, a lawyer of someone's abuse in any way. I'm no one's lawyer. I'm calling on Mr. Milivojevic to say whose lawyer I am, so we could talk about it. I speak from the position of veterinary profession, because I am, by the profession of a pedagogogog and I am also an expert in the profession, like Mr. Milivojevic as an engineer of livestock.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40106	Mr. Milivojevic, you can only be within group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40107	With all due respect, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, I really didn't mention you. If you recognized yourself in my discussion, that's your problem, not mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40108	The 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 66. The draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, which I asked for "in exceptional cases" the words "approving the Ministry" to be added in the position of the 4th member. The government has rejected the amendment, explaining that exceptional cases have been defined through the proposal to allow the use of food waste, so-called food waste for animal breeding purposes only for its own purposes. the premium, only if it has previously been thermally processed and cannot be derived from that land, so the government considers that the conditions are specified and that there is no reason for a closer definition of the conditions by the ministry. The SRS parliamentary group considers the term "in exceptional cases" absolutely imprecise and that accepting this amendment would avoid many arbitrary interpretations. Precision and concreteization can't be a waste, we even think it can only contribute to easier application of the law. I'd just like to remind you that they're food waste, so-called. Pomiti, very unsuitable for the feeding of animals of any kind, that they can contain very different substances that can have a very negative effect on animal health, as well as on the quality of meat after slaughter. In containers, various animal diseases, bacteriological parasites, can also reach different chemical substances that are used, for example, through irregular handling. to maintain the hygiene of dishes and to have a negative impact on animal health. Many of these ingredients cannot be destroyed, even if animal keepers exactly follow the instructions on thermal processing, and especially since this provision of mandatory thermal processing is very difficult to control. The retention of harmful substances in animal meat, which is later used for human consumption, also has a negative impact on the health condition of the population, so it would be best if food waste were not used at all for animal nutrition, and if such cases were allowed to be precise, what we were looking for by amendment, which unfortunately the Government did not accept. It is impossible to control how long the animals before the slaughter were fed to food waste and how it affected their health. The SRS believes that the parliamentary group could contribute to the quality and application of this bill with its amendments, and regretfully finds that out of about 50 amendments to the opposition parties, the government has not accepted any, and that MPs of the ruling coalition have submitted several amendments that have been accepted in the majority. Even after all the discussions, even with the presence of a large team of experts, the proposing representative has not concluded that some of the amendments contribute to the quality of the law and that they should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40110	The 67th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? On. Yes, Mr. Dimitrijevic wants it anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40111	We predicted that the border would move here from three to five years old. The ministry responded as it responded, believing it was quite a deadline. We don't think that's enough time. On the other hand, I took the previous discussion of Mr Milivojevic as a criticism of you, Mr Milosavljevic, about the minutes of the veterinary inspection. I don't know when it was, but how much memory does it serve me, were you the Minister of Agriculture last term? Does this criticism refer to Mr Milosavljevic? Who ran that farm resor? On the other hand, Mr. Milivojevic, where did you get the veterinary inspection records? Are you a veterinary inspector? Where did you get those papers? How do you say I didn't get the records of that veterinary inspection, so let's see who's selling vacuum cleaners at a time when the minister in the government is from the DS, and he's doing veterinary work, etc? Who are you criticizing, Mr. Milosavljevic or Mr. Sasha Dragin? What's this about? Mr. Milivojevic, words can't be more honest or more valuable than those who pronounce them, and you probably have criticism of Mr. Milosavljevic, as far as I understand it, or maybe of Sasha Dragin, or maybe of some things when we've been looking about spraying ticks or mosquitoes, to see if there were any tenders, so there were no tenders, so I ask to be brought to me, so they say we can't give it to you, because it can't be copied. Imagine, the MP must not have a photocopy of a tender without public advertising, he must not have that document. Are you guys talking about these things? Who are you transferring it to? Explain a little. I realized it was Mr. Milosavljevic's. As far as I know, Mr Milosavljevic was Minister of Agriculture in his previous term.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40112	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40113	Your Honor, Madam President, this time I will use the right to reply, for I have been directly called.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40114	No, you can use the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40115	Thank you, there's plenty of him. It's a habit of the worst students not to understand lectures, especially if they're not in class. Someone can't be in this session room occasionally and then follow only the partial thing he likes, what he doesn't like not to follow. Mr Dimitrievich, I have this record in my hands thanks to the fact that I was the President of the Commission for the Field of Veterinary Stations and, as such, I had the right to have insight into all the records that arrived on that committee. And I don't abuse those records, because this time I haven't read the name of a veterinary station, not the name and last name of a veterinarian, but I've just vividly pointed out the fact that certain veterinary cells are doing and what the owners of certain veterinary cells are doing and what all abuses are doing and who all their lawyers are. On the other hand, I am sorry that you occasionally follow the sessions of this congregation, so you hear only what you want to hear, but not what you need to hear. I can't tell you about the effect of your government, especially when the DS wasn't with you in the coalition, when it was Vojislav Kostunica himself, because I would show you the impressive results of that government, but we broke down the microscope, so I can't tell you that. On the other hand, if we talk about the import of agricultural products during your government, we could feed half of Europe with the agricultural products that the government of Vojislav Kostunica imported. But again, I will tell you, this record that I have quoted here did not get and obtain, it was given to me by veterinary institutions and inspections from the field, and those veterinary institutions that were not formed and appointed during the term of office of Slobodan Milosavljevic or Saša Dragina, but by some other government and some other minister. I'm sorry you don't know who it was and that you have a very short memory, and amnesia is a wonderful disease. Every day you hear something new, it doesn't hurt. Unfortunately, I don't suffer from amnesia. I have a very good memory, memory and memory. I have faith in the institutions of the Serbian state, regardless of which government they are appointed, because I am sure that veterinary inspections work professionally, professionally and responsibly, whether they are set up for governments when the minister was Slobodan Milosavljevic, Sasa Dragin or someone else. I believe in the institutions of the Serbian state, and I believe that these records are as they are handed over to the Commission for the assignment of the terrain authentic. Behind them are people who did not exercise that control once, twice or three times, or who went into control with a party book, but who went into control with the official legislation of the veterinary inspection of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and determined what they found. If someone doesn't like the fact that she's established a veterinary inspection, she has the right to appeal to the institutions, she has the right to appeal to Tabloid. He has the right to publish a felloton in the "Tabloid" magazine about it, but you know what, if the facts in this country and in my presentation don't agree with someone's opinion, so much worse by the facts. I think the facts are undeniable and that it is impossible from the point of view of logic, reason and fact to challenge what it says in the record of veterinary inspection on the ground. I underline once again, I believe in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Because these institutions are independent and don't have a party book. They have this coat of arms that we all believe, which we all vote for and I believe these institutions enforce the laws of this country, not party and political programmes. If anyone has a different opinion, they have the right to their delusions, regardless of age and experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40116	Thank you. Mr Milivojevic was explaining some of the topics and questions you asked, Mr Dimitrijevic, within the time of the parliamentary group, so there is no basis for replication. National MP Zoran Bortic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 86 be added after article 86. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 96 be added after article 96. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. Here you go, Mr. Bortice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40117	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the Ministry, the esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, since I have explained in detail all the three amendments that we have proposed, I am only taking the opportunity to appeal once again to all the participants here in the debate to take another good look at and think about these amendments and about this high school staff that we are getting in June-July this year. I think in 2007, on June 2, when this school got to school this chamber, it had to get consent and licenses all to train veterinary technicians. This year in July, we're gonna get graduates, and I think this is an extraordinary opportunity to have them in the parent's law. If not, I'm almost convinced that by the end of the year it will be and that you will also initiate to amend and supplement this law and that they will find their place in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40118	Mr. Dimitrijevic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40119	Madam President, Article 104 - injured dignity of the National Assembly. Here when the word "amnesia" is mentioned, I'm not sure anyone knows what "amnesia" means. Please don't use words like that. On the other hand, when it comes to that very term, I'm just going to read to understand what that word means the last sentence of what the "Tabloid" has published with the signing of the Minister of Agriculture. Only the last sentence – whether it is spoken by a legal person or not, will not be considered. Mr. Milivoevich, so much for amnesia. This is five times repeated and read. You didn't comment on it, and you comment on it, and you mention amnesia, and you don't know what that means.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40120	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON ORGANSKI PRODUCTION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Dobrislav Prelić, Dragan Živkov, Vitomir Plužarević, Srboljub Živanovic, Petar Jojic, Dragan Aćimović, Vladija Milojković, Željko Brestovic, Milutin Jeličić, Milan Avramović, Milan Škrbić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Vladica Jeremic, Radica Jocic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Željko Tomić and the Committee on Agriculture. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th Amendment was filed by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, who wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40121	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Article 4 paragraph 1, point 3, we wrote instead of saying "in accordance with the law" that it should stand "which are not contrary to positive regulations". Respecting the experience of practice, it is not entirely necessary to limit the sources of funding of incentive measures for the development of the promotion of organic production only to those envisaged by law. Because of dynamic life and economic distortions and needs, often some institutes first appear and apply in practice, only then are they regulated by positive regulations. Other sources of funding of incentive measures for the development and improvement of organic production, other than the Republic of Serbia's budget and donations, can be diverse and such incentive measures are not or are not always regulated by some law. It is therefore allowed to allow all sources of funding for incentive measures which are not contrary to positive regulations. For example, if an economic operator under the law of authorised initiatives and interests were to give incentive measures to organic products producers, such action would not have to be regulated by any law, nor should it be, it would be a contractual relationship between two economic operators in which the state does not need to interfere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40122	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, tabled an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Proposer representative Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, accepted the amendment. National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40123	We have proposed that paragraph 2 is amended in this Article: The right to use the incentive funds set out in Article 1 of this Article shall be defined by producers of organic products in Article 3 of point 14 of the Law. We explained that the current provision lays down that the right to use incentive funds for the development and improvement of organic production has only agricultural holdings which are entered in the relevant register, while other producers are defined by Article 3 of point 14) are exempt from this right, which is unjustly and without reason puts all other producers in a more unfavourable position. The exemptions of other organic production producers may be legal or natural persons, i.e. entrepreneurs who produce, process and place in the domestic or external trade of organic products in accordance with the law, contrary to the intensities of this law in general to stimulate organic production in all stages of production as a potentially significant export opportunity for the Republic of Serbia. I must remind myself that this, as well as most of the amendments to the DSS parliamentary club, supported both the Transparency of Serbia organisation and a number of experts from agricultural colleges across Serbia, as well as various institutes in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40124	Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40125	On the committees in charge, above all on the Committee on Agriculture, and even in the plenary debate in principle today in this debate in particular, and from the presentation of certain MPs, it is inevitable that we should once raise the issue and make the difference between the Law on genetically modified organisms and the Organic Production Act, with the need to place organic production in our country and define professionally, thoroughly and responsibly, in order to obtain a place in the total agricultural production it deserves. I must conclude at the beginning that the amendments to all the political options, regardless of which group they belonged to, were both fundamental, scientific, and technologically prepared, precisely to answer these questions to which the most answers were given by the Committee on Agriculture so far. Production without any artificial inputs, such as artificial fertilisers, insecticides, pesticides and any, even the slightest modification of varieties and plant quality, which are first grown in one real and adequate way regulated by this law. The basis for producing high quality and healthy and unmodified products is that it preserves all natural resources, with a high degree of biodiversity, which in the application of the strictest standards gives fully healthy and environmentally correct food. Organic products are even considered healthier than food obtained in a traditional way by using various instructions, and it is understandable that these products create a significant market and a significant need in which Serbia can record significant growth from year to year. In this regard, the insistence of all policy options and groups, including the agencies mentioned, to make timely remarks and proposals for the first time to adopt and adopt this basic law correctly. It is certain that we will support that this law and, in particular, the fact that organic production corresponds primarily to marginal areas and that it enables the coordination of social interest in the protection of natural goods with a great economic justification for all the needs of the rural population living in these territories and thus provides its own income. The proposal for an organic production law, including all amendments made by all political groups and options, aims to help ensure that this production is finally imposed as an attractive and potentially very profitable area of future agricultural production. If the fact is known, and that is the fact that many have put amendments, that in Serbia we now have 224 producers applying organic production methods, that the total area on which these 595 hectares apply for the time being, and that the possibilities are far greater, as well as the fact that 265 hectares, or 1,200 hectares, are applied to specific organic production measures, and that with millions of hectares, real biocidal, or biological materials that should preserve all plant species from natural habitats that will be returned to areas where organic production methods will be applied. The amendments to the draft law mainly support the support of organic production by creating a proper and very responsible legal framework for this future production. In particular, we stress that the state will provide maximum possible support for further development of organic production by subsidising organic products producers for the first sensitive transitional period from classical traditional production to this type of production. Otherwise, the cost of production in organic production is very high, which prevents more mass production, i.e. the identification of farmers to create a new Serbian brand of organic organic organic products. We advocate this measure because it would achieve strengthening and developing organic production, but also significantly improve and preserve the environment. In this regard, we will support the amendments, regardless of the political options, which contribute to this organic production leading to the level it deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40126	National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have no particular objection that Mr. Milosavljevic is here today, which changes the Secretary-General in some way, given that he was the Minister of Agriculture and that he is now the Minister of Trade, we believe that these two ministries should be closely tied up and even that the minister will be involved in the debate. Just before I go on, Mrs. Slavic, how much time do we have as a parliamentary group? (President: seven minutes and 20 seconds. ) The SRS believes that organic production should be represented in Serbia, that our capabilities and capacities are extremely high, especially as smaller agricultural holdings have in some way a chance to commit themselves more seriously to this production and to make profit above all. Minister Dragin said the ministry of agriculture's task in the coming period is to put an emphasis on agricultural holdings that cover the production process on areas of 10 to 100 hectares. We ask the question – what about people who have less than 10 hectares, most of which are in Serbia? Certainly, the way is also one way to deal with organic production, and you will admit that it is not so easy to move on to organic production from conventional and that the path will be primarily long and painful. The second reason why there is no agricultural ministry accent on smaller agricultural holdings is probably a lack of money in the agriculture ministry's budget. We believe that organic production should be represented as much as possible and the objective of this amendment was to sow as much of our surfaces in organic production and therefore we have put this article to include both agricultural cooperatives and all legal persons engaged in the work of Article 2. You said in your explanation, literally, that such an explanation is excessive and that it is understood. However, experience tells us that we simply cannot trust you because we have burned ourselves many times first, because you can make regulations and sublaws to do literally whatever you want, and experience tells us that we cannot trust the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So our farmers took and increased in their agricultural holdings and livestock funds, and then we were in a position for our government to import milk powder. Direct attack on our agricultural producers. Does Mr. Minister not listen because it has to do with the import of milk powder I don't know, or anything else, but we certainly had the opportunity here to hear from some MPs that honey and milk literally flow in our agriculture? Unfortunately, we don't have any bees or milk, and we're done fooling our citizens and, above all, farmers. Dear gentlemen, you need to get out on the field, not just speak out loud, not doubting anyone's regularity and credibility, but talking is one thing, and being on the ground is another. He knows everyone today to count and make sure that when all segments are seen, especially in livestock, our farmer is down. Which is why large agricultural companies that were involved in the production of milk and when they were bought, after only a few months, failed. And you know how they did it -- as soon as they got into that company, they first sold out the entire engine park, the next move was to destroy the farm, they probably had a signal that there would be no profit, but all those people who got fired and living in the country turned to livestock, they raised loans, they bought breeding heifers. The price of milk with 32 dinars fell to below 20 dinars. They've come into a situation where they're below zero. Organic production should in some ways protect our economic and natural resources. We are convictions and thus to increase our exports. I'm just wondering, Mr. Minister, what are we going to export because once you move across Serbia, the stables are empty, the rains are empty? I absolutely don't understand what we're going to export. One gentleman just said that we also have oatmeals here and that the English took them and took them to the zoo. Imagine, in the zoo, and they didn't take it to do the muffler production. I think there's a lot of humiliation, first of all, of our farmers, and I certainly don't have a problem commending what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, but we're here and our task is to bring out what's wrong. We were talking about milk, and just to point out, I believe that you are aware that the mayor of Belgrade is preparing for the city to provide milk producers with a premium of 2.5 dinars and to subsidise heifers with 6.5 thousand dinars. Is he being kidnapped by the DS or is he something else? I ask you, do you live in the interior of Serbia? Not just when it comes to agriculture. I'll remind you that in Belgrade and mothers they have a 100% pension, that pensioners get extra pensions. What about the interior? What does Belgrade Mayor Gilas want with this? You know how difficult this is. The time has come for the Ministry of Agriculture, and first of all the Government, because the interest of the state must be agriculture, put a finger on the head or even hit the wall and say – enough is enough, and to commit itself seriously to our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40128	Two minutes and 20 seconds are available to the SRS parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Donka Banovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40129	Article 4 also mentions encouraging measures in organic production, and says in the first position: funds for stimulating measures, for the development and improvement of organic production, are provided from the RS budget, from donations and from other sources in accordance with the law. What's our intervention? It refers to paragraph 3, because the promoter considers that the government needs to set closer measures for the development and improvement of organic production, regardless of the source of funding for these incentive funds, so also when they are budgetary resources, and when they are grants and when they are from other sources. We believe that the Government should do so, but only when it comes to budgetary resources, not when the funds are from other sources, for example. donation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40130	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarian Dragan Zivkov has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the European Union periodically changes the laws of this area so that we are not able to reach them with this organic production law. They change that in terms of the market or of the supply and demand of organic products. In Article 6. The draft law item 1 point 3) of point (2) is proposed to be deleted. The government does not accept this amendment for reasons, it is already known, since this attitude and the member are defined as basic principles in organic production. We propose this because of the ban on the use of genetically modified organisms and products consisting of or obtained from genetically modified organisms, with the exception of veterinary and medical products. Do we also need genetically modified organisms and products? We don't need them. Our traditional agricultural production is based on this very organic production. And we believe that this production must be subsidized by the ministry and has to be better presented in a media manner, so that the timely young people get information and continue where their parents stopped with this organic production. But organic production also requires livestock production, which we, unfortunately, which you have destroyed. So today in our villages, there are no more stalls or flower pots. We are a country in Europe that is the least polluting land with mineral and other heavy metals, and you from the Ministry must present this advantage with pedological views, profiles and media images to your European Union. You must tell that European Union that our country has good preconditions for organic production. I will not now list all the regions in Serbia where it is necessary to just go and start organic production. It's your part of the job, and you have to do it. But how do you go to those friends of yours from the European Union when you do, and they know that during NATO bombing, they poisoned many of those areas in Serbia that they need to clean up? That cleaning takes a large amount of money, and they don't care to give a single euro. Always honor them when you talk to them about any law that they owe us more than $200 billion and ask them when they'll start paying off that damage, and after that we'll be the first country in Europe by organic production.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40132	45 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Chapter II, title above Articles 7 and 7. It's a bill of law. Proposer Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, accepted the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 8 and 8. It's a bill of law. Proposer Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, accepted the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the search for the amendment to Article 8, in accordance with Article 8. I am informing the National Assembly on the 27th and 85th that the break and end of the day will be determined when we end the search in particular, and according to this and the following law, thus ending the search in details of the previous joint principled search. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Donka Banovic. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40133	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have amended Article 9 in paragraph 1 and it has changed it as we have changed it: the Ministry of Agriculture's Office for the Doing of Control and Certification in Organic Production will authorise any control organisation registered in the Register of Business Entities, in accordance with the law governing the registration of economic operators, which has an accreditation act issued by the competent accreditation body of the RS, in accordance with the relevant Serbian, European and international standards, which submits requirements for determining compliance with the conditions under this law, which fulfils the conditions regarding technical equipment and personnel training. We've made two kinds of changes. The first amendment concerns the fact that you wrote in the proposal that it can authorise the Ministry of Control to meet the conditions for carrying out the work. In fact, we felt that the ministry had to have powers, that we had turned the possibility into a commitment. As you have written that you are giving discretion to the Ministry to decide whether it will give authority to control and certification to the economic operator, even when that economic operator fully meets and fulfils all the prescribed conditions, it is, of course, wrong, because then you open up the possibility of corruption, to make one organization privileged to others, and that is why what you wrote as – we can convert the powers into the obligation of the ministry. The second change is the introduction of words that apply to determine the fulfilment of the conditions in accordance with this law. This supplement is necessary in order to bind the ministry's obligation to issue the authorisation only to those economic operators that submit the relevant application and in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40134	Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Milica Vojić-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40135	In Article 10(3), we added new paragraphs 4 and 5, which reads: "The Ministry shall decide on the submission of the application referred to in Article 1 and Article 2 of this Article within 60 days of the date of submission. In the event that the Ministry does not decide on the request referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article within the time limit laid down in the position of the fourth member, it will be deemed to have been positively resolved on the basis of the requested request." What were we trying to accomplish? In the draft law, you shall prescribe until the control and authorised control organisations have been able to apply for the determination of the conditions for the performance of organic production control and certification operations, but do not give a period within which the ministry should determine whether they meet these conditions. This deficit can be poorly reflected, can make a mistake or can lead to you waiting for a solution that the ministry needs to make for life. That's why we brought that deadline. It's 60 days from the day of submission. Article 5 has specified the consequences if the ministry does not reach a solution within the time limit set in Article 4. In this way, it would prevent the ministry's lack of urgency in resolving submitted requirements and would allow these organisations to operate in a much simpler way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40136	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40137	And this amendment has to do with setting deadlines and increasing the public work and ministry when it comes to a list of authorised control organisations. Namely, here the promoter says the ministry only determines the list of authorised organisations and publishes it in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia once a year. It's an entire member. We suggest that these two new positions be: "The list of headings 1 shall be published by 30 September at the latest". So you know exactly how long that list should be published in the year. Item 3 would be: "The list of heading 1st ministry also publishes on its Internet presentation. On the Internet presentation, in addition to the list, the ministry also publishes data on the solutions set out in Article 9 and Article 13 which is published between the publication of two lists." In case there are any changes. This amendment aims to specify the provision of this bill, to increase the public work of the ministry and to reduce the uncertainty among stakeholders about which control organisations have the authority to carry out this work. In order to achieve these objectives, in paragraph 2, we set a deadline for the publication of that list during the year and for increasing the public's work to be on the site.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40138	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Milutin Jelic has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40139	In Article 13, the second point states: If an authorised control organisation ceases to fulfil the conditions for carrying out controls and certification in organic production, and at the request of an authorised control organisation, the minister shall, by means of a solution, withdraw the authority of that control organisation to carry out controls and certification operations in organic production. It's all right. We want that Article 11, where the minister is prescribed to publish once a year a list of authorised organisations in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore in a situation where one of these authorised organisations is deprived of that authority, he added that it would be good to publish it in the official list. Namely, our own amendment says a new position is being added, attitude 4, which states that the solution, as I spoke of in Article 2, is being published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It would be good for the ministry to inform the interested public publicly, transparently immediately in the Official Messenger, which are organisations that have lost power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40140	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 15. The following point 1 is added: "The animals obtained from other farms and from natural habitats must be quarantined for at least 30 days. The existing position 2 becomes point 3'''. The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation that it allegedly believes that organic livestock production methods are not necessary for animals that change the environment to be quarantined for observation. Also, the quarantine for animals obtained from another farm is not intended for the EU regulation that regulates this area, with which the law is in line. Ladies and gentlemen, we know exactly what the situation on the farms is and what the conditions of work and life are. However, because of the degree of protection or due to the degree of production itself, it is necessary to accept this amendment, as well as the one involved in the production, as I do, that not all repromaterials can be obtained by farms but, as my colleagues have spoken, is supplied by livestock markets, where you must place certain animals in a particular quarantine or due to a particular medical veterinary examination, in order to nevertheless establish first by the information obtained from the passport whether these data are authentic or not. Based on this data that has been inserted into the electronic system, you can take an animal at the market that was purchased whether or not down in southern Serbia in any place, you don't know what kind of medical condition it is until you get into its data. So, all this period that animal origin testing needs to be done in quarantine, where the animals would be in that habitat, or where they would be provided for a period of time, so that in an adequate way all of this could be examined, re-examined, and that the future owner might have a guarantee of happiness with healthy animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40142	40 seconds of MP time was used. It's available for another minute. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40143	The point is that in Article 17, in Article 2(2) behind the word "organisation", we added the words "in 60 days from the date of submission". What's this about? On the basis of the application referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article, the manufacturer and the authorised control organisation shall conclude an agreement on the conduct of controls and certification in organic production, which shall determine the registration number obtained by the manufacturer. In point 3. goes on to say "from the date of conclusion of the contract of this member, a period of conversion begins". We just wanted to specify the time limit in which that contract would be concluded, given that this is a very important moment from which the beginning of that conversion counts. We suggest that within 60 days you know exactly, because you cannot know how long the process can last. We don't have the answer to how long that whole application process can last. We're precise with a 60-day deadline. I hope the government adopts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40144	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40145	In Article 17(3), I changed and it reads as follows: In the event that the contract referred to in Article 2(2) of this Article is not concluded within the time limit laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article, for reasons of lack of urgency of the control organisation, the contract shall be deemed to be closed at the request of the manufacturer of the addressed ministry on the date on which the prescribed deadline laid down in Article 2 of this Article is laid down and the Ministry shall determine the second competent control organisation for the conclusion of the contract and shall determine the number of manufacturers. Of course, the amendment was not accepted, with an explanation that every authorised control organisation had an interest in concluding within the shortest time period with the manufacturer of the control and certification contract, except when it was interested not to conclude that it would extend that deadline, which we kept in mind when we wrote such an amendment. In fact, as a consequence of what we have written, the amendment is the impeccableness of this government, which has the largest number of ministries in the region, certainly in the world are indeed in a very high position, has the largest number of state secretaries, has the largest number of special advisers, as well as the largest number of advisers, has the greatest results in creating negative consequences for this country, so on. The damage, because it has done great damage, has the least impact of all governments in the region and of all the Serbian governments that have been so far, and what its main pain is to unsuspect and make mad, as the people say, to respond in any way. We have a bunch of different demands from people who have come to address the MPs, thinking that MPs have the opportunity to work with the ministries to get their case, some solution or decision finally won. So we have a bunch of these two years each, after 18 months, so they're all in the term of office of this government. No one gives an answer. That's why we insist on this government's urgency, with so much administration, that it can afford to work as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40146	Two minutes. Anybody else answer for a word? If not, MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40147	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 18 of Section 4, and I have suggested that this provision be deleted. The government, however, did not accept this amendment, gave one argument that is not convincing. Therefore, I believe that this amendment was justly and justly and properly set, defined and should have been deleted. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity when it comes to this production and when it comes to agriculture to ask one question to the ministers present in this room, whether they can influence the public service, i.e. TV to show more on TV the situation in agriculture, to show households, to show how spring is going. We in the morning when you turn on TV at six o'clock and when you open a beer bottle, you'll see some ladies of darkness just telling a story on the TV of the Republic of Serbia, which is the TV of Serbian citizens who pay for that TV. You can only see the weather forecast. The weather forecast comes to Serbia's citizens. Please, in half an hour, you have seven to eight informations only the weather forecast. I believe today, if you do it from six o'clock in the morning to 24 o'clock that it will be 50 times just weather forecast, and about agriculture, about employment, about layoffs, about bankruptcy, about prices of agricultural products, about oil prices, about the prices of repromaterials, about the prices of tractors, the combined, the connected machines, there's nothing. There's not a word. I would like to ask you, Mr Milosavljevic, as Minister, to draw attention and to transfer you to the Minister of Agriculture for more engagement and to go to Mr Tijanic and ask him that we can listen to the weather forecast two or three times a day, but it is important for the citizens of Serbia and this and how important. When he rises up and wants to go to the field in the morning, he sees whether it's cloudy or not, whether it's a tractor in the field or not, and whether it's a shepherd in Zlatibor, Zlatar and Pestar, whether he should take a raincoat or not. But, brother, give more about the situation of poor workers, non-employment and give as much information as possible primarily about sowing. You'll hear that from case to case, maybe once or twice a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40148	Your parliamentary group's time has been used. Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40149	This article 19 is an example of the whole bill being filled with inaccuracy, indiscretion, lack of deadlines, lack of public service. So for this article, we suggest adding a new attitude 4. Otherwise, this member speaks of conditions for carrying out control tasks. I'll read Section 3 so the citizens know what our amendment is about. Paragraph 3 states that an authorised control organisation is obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure the confidentiality of the information obtained during the exercise of controls and certification. So it's about confidentiality and confidentiality of information. We suggest that this be a little more precise, so we suggest a new position: Class 3 classified information is information that is considered a business secret in accordance with the law governing the work of economic operators, except for that information that indicates a breach of this or other regulation. This amendment makes it clear what is considered a secret, that it is a business secret, that it is defined by some other laws, and that if, during the course of control or certification, there is a violation of this law or other regulations that are important for this area, it must not remain a business secret or any other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40150	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40151	Mr. Secretary, in Article 20, in Section 2, I deleted the word "determined." So in the bill of law, you say and use the term "determined irregularities", you actually use a broad term to say nothing more precise, to be clear. In fact, "determined irregularities" is a completely inaccurate term and leaves the possibility of different interpretations, application and possible abuses of the source of corruption, and therefore I did not go too far to explain to you what irregularities these are, because I think it was too much or to say what irregularities they are, so you can say which ones are, or simply delete this "determined" because as it stands, it's a complete space for corruption. Otherwise, my colleague Jojic just said he was wrong, he said that we had a chance to see ministers today, we're not a colleague of Jojic's, we only saw one minister, he sat there and he kept his mouth shut all day, and we saw someone who acted like a minister and wanted to be a minister, but he wasn't a minister. There was only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40152	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40153	I have submitted an amendment to paragraph 3, but I need to read first for the sake of the public what you say in point 1 – that organic production controls are done in a way that ensures objectivity, impartiality, absence of conflicts of interest, efficiency, professionalism, consistency, quality, etc. However, it is not specified who will deal directly with it. That is why we propose an amendment to add in point 3 to the words that the minister will write closer the way he handles the methods to ensure objectivity, impartiality, efficiency, professionalism, consistency and quality, and to prevent and resolve conflicts of interest. I'm glad to mention this concept of conflict of interest in this law. We suggest that the minister deals with this because he is closer to prescribing the way in which he controls the entire organic production. It's very imprecise and it's so purely demagoguely said -- yes, that's right, this is what we should fight for, this is what we should fight for, but it doesn't say who does it. The DSS amendment is in this direction because there is no indication of how to prevent and resolve conflicts of interest, and on efficiency, professionalism etc. We give it to the minister to assess and assess how it should be done in organic production.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40154	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40155	We add a new position in which we say, "The act contained in Article 23 of Law 4 provides for a form and closer content of the report." Namely, this is about an annual report on organic production. The draft law provides for the obligation of authorised control organisations to submit an organic production report to the Ministry, as well as for what the report needs to contain, i.e. the records specified by Article 23 of this Act. However, it is not specified which data from the control organisation's records will be supplied, nor in which form they will do so. We remove this failure with this amendment, where we say the minister is prescribing both the form and the nearer content of the annual report.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40156	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Anybody want a word? (No) Radica Jocic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40157	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40. A bill on organic production that I asked to replace the word "seven" in point 3 with the word "five". Article 40 refers to criminal provisions for a commercial offence and it provides that, in addition to the fines provided for in this article, the protection measure of the prohibition of a legal person to engage in certain business activities, i.e. the safeguard measure of the prohibition of a responsible person to perform certain duties for a period of six months to seven years may also be imposed. In most cases, the SRS supports rigorous criminal provisions that contribute to quality application of the law and a better situation on the ground, however, we believe that the five-year period, as we have proposed with the amendment, will have sufficient warning effect on legal persons, i.e. control organisations. As we have stated in the explanation, we do not feel that it is necessary for such a long period of time to be interrupted by the practice of certain actions in order for the punishment to be effective. We find it much more important that all the provisions of the law, of this and of all others, are respected and applied equally, that examples be eliminated that the provisions of the law apply to someone, and not to others, but to penalties to be dragons. Ladies and gentlemen, the day the Government proposes to the Assembly laws that are not prescribed or adopted under the European Union directive, but laws that change the better situation on the ground, such rigorous criminal provisions will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40158	National MP Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41. Proposal for an organic production law. Article 41 of this proposal concerns criminal provisions. Namely, the legislator has provided for penalties for the placing on the market of organic products not marked in accordance with this law, as well as for the marking of conventional products contrary to this law, for placing on the market of organic products, without having a valid certificate issued by an authorised control organisation. In addition, for the placing on the market of organic products from imports for which no confirmation provided for in Article 22(2) of this Act is received, Article 31(2), i.e. without confirmation of an authorised control organisation that it has carried out control of the documentation and certificates issued by the competent authority of the country of origin. In addition to the fine provided for in paragraph 1, it is provided for in paragraph 3 that a safeguard measure may be imposed against a legal person to deal with certain economic activity, i.e. the safeguard measure of the prohibition of a responsible person to perform certain duties for a period of six months to seven years. The SRS amendment was proposed to mitigate the law by reducing the penalty rate from seven years of age to five years. The government has not accepted this amendment. For reasons of refusal, it is stated that a wide range has been put in place in a period of time within which a safeguard measure can be imposed, depending on the severity of the commercial offence committed and other circumstances. The position of the SRS is that it is a seven-year and too long period and that amendments to the SRS were to be adopted which, as the longest deadline, we proposed a five-year period of protection measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40160	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the justification for the adoption of this law, as well as all these laws that the Serbian Parliament has been stamping over the last six months, is solely for economic reasons. If we take into account the high criminal policy applicable to this law, which is abnormally large financial penalties to be borne in this case by the controller, the fact that it applies in Article 42, and the non-compliance with the specific legal provisions already in force, such as the Law on Infringement, is made clear that this ministry wants to fill the Republic's budget in the best possible way. What is evident in the context of this bill is the fact that financial resources need to be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law. Since no one knows what the budget of the Republic of Serbia will look like in 2011, we even have in this explanation that it is necessary in 2011 to provide funding for the work of the expert advice on organic production, and that the costs of this work are not large financial resources. What is also mentioned in this reasoning is the reason that in 2011 there will already be an indent relating to subsidies for the development of organic production. So it's not the essence of this law I'm the law, to be a better standard for citizens, but to fill the budget. The government remembers that famous joke, if it is found in the desert, it will gather sand. So, the implementation of this law is exclusively aimed at filling the budget, to reorganize an expert advice on organic production that may be helpful. The aim of this law is not these penalties, but the respect of the Law on Infringements, which clearly stipulates the amount of fines to be applied to a legal person. You've broken that law with this...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40162	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. The time available for the parliamentary group is 62 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40163	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, every terror of its own archaic measure. If we start from this assumption that we are passing laws for the purpose of punishing citizens, then some people must agree, especially some fellow MPs, with their MP group and finally agree on positions – are we making laws to punish citizens, are we passing laws because of what the European Union is asking us to do, are we passing laws to satisfy numbers? Because we constantly hear different arguments that begin with the same introduction – only for this reason or for that reason do they make laws. I'll do it again. We do not pass laws to satisfy the form, and if someone puts an apriora accent in the face of the law's criticism of criminal policy, it means that the apriors are coming from themselves, as a man who does not respect the law, and thus also the state of Serbia. We are starting from the assumption that the people and citizens of this country will obey the law and that criminal provisions will not have to be applied. But, of course, no society is perfect, so neither is ours. Penalties must exist as prevention and as a deterrent to individuals from the procedures leading to the violation of the law. But the law is not passed to fill the budget and to prescribe legal sanctions. The law is passed to apply the positive effects of the law and to ensure that citizens have positive effects of the law in their lives. The sanctions only serve to deter those who wish to break the law, so that no one should frighten the citizens, and even less to transfer their projected desires and actions to the entire people and citizens of this country. The government does not propose laws punishing citizens, this parliament does not adopt laws sanctioning citizens. This parliament adopts laws that improve the quality of life and promote society, and only individuals who wish to violate it must expect legal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40164	Used two minutes and 10 seconds of MP time. National MP Milan Avramovic is registered in the electronic system. Your MP's time has been exploited, you have no right to replicate. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word, submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has submitted several amendments to the proposal for organic production laws relating to criminal provisions. We have shown these amendments the intention to reduce the penalties provided for by the legislator. One of these amendments is this to Article 44, which we have suggested that the estimated amount of fines for entrepreneurs who commit the violations mentioned in Article 41 and which my colleagues have already spoken of, so I will not repeat that the estimated amount of fines from 100.00 dinars to 500,000 dinars is reduced to between 50,000 and 200,000 dinars. We are familiar with the gravity of the economic offenses mentioned in Article 41 and of course we are in favour of absolute respect for the law and that the offenders must bear the consequences of the works they have done. We all know very well about the differences in organic and conventional production processes. Since organic production is a special system of production, this particularity costs. The reason for the adoption of this law states that today the quality of food is measured by its impact on health and the consumption of organically produced foods by a higher standard of living. However, these amendments to the SRS parliamentary club have emerged as a result of seeing the difficult current economic situation, and our view is that the penalties are too high. Agricultural producers in Serbia have been living very badly for years. I'm not saying that by chance, I'm saying that because I live in the middle of southern Serbia, where a large part of the population is engaged in agricultural production and there are hardly any who can boast that they are satisfied with the results of their work. Everyone says they invest too much work and other resources without getting back at them for years. We hear the same from colleagues from northern Serbia and the Forest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40166	Two minutes, thank you. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic, has the word, and Srdjan Milivojević, the Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40167	And the article 45 is from this chapter of criminal provisions, and the criminal provisions of each legal solution are always quite discriminatory, if it pulls some parallel between what really committed offence can cause and what colleagues have already talked about, which is considering one real situation in which all those who should cover such a legal solution are involved. The amendment provides for a reduction of the fine from these estimated between 70,000 and 400,000 dinars practically for half, as regards the violation of the enterprise that is committed by the action provided for here, i.e. Article 43(1). The proposal for a law, i.e. if organic production is not carried out in accordance with the organic production methods prescribed. Otherwise, these methods of organic production, as foreseen by the law here, are closer to being prescribed by the minister. For example, when it comes to organic plant production methods, this includes, among other things, fertility or organic livestock production methods, the treatment of animals obtained from other farms, etc. We believe absolutely, given the importance that this area of organic production should have, that these penalties should indeed be inappropriate and that, accordingly, it should be taken into account how this law is to be implemented, and not just by such a criminal policy as the proposer provided for by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40168	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40169	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will make only one gentle partnership with the Transport Safety Act. When we prescribed certain fines and sanctions there for those who did not comply with the law, they all said it was bad. Then there was the application of this law in practice and the reduction of traffic accidents by 40%. I'll quote myself from the record from that session now. Then I said - the power of the law is established by the Constitution, the power of the law is limited by freedom and the rights of the citizens. Unlucky is the state that is powerless to enforce the law, and even worse is the accident when the state has to endure it. The biggest accident is when the state approves it. A state that doesn't make the law is not a legal state. The fines only serve to deter offenders from committing the offence. Anyone who doesn't understand that doesn't understand the processes of parliamentary-processing law. The laws that don't come true in life are dead laws. A law that provides for change and progress creates a beneficial effect. The legal penalties provided for by the legislator in this law are exclusively for those individuals who want to threaten a very significant business branch, which represents the future in Serbia, to prevent individuals from doing so, not to punish agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40170	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Brestovici. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a final word on the basis of Article 144? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE OBLIGATION OF THE CONSULTATION AND EXPLAINING OF THE AUTHORITIES: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Goran Mihajlović, Ljiljana Milić, Miroslav Žilić, Presažilić. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the implementation of advisory and professional activities in the field of agriculture. I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment, because Article 4 says all the advisory jobs are in agriculture. You have twelve points here. Unfortunately, in that 12 point stands – providing advisory assistance in other areas for which agricultural producers show interest. Since the term "agricultural producers" is no longer used in the current laws, the term "registered agricultural holdings" is used, I believe that this is a more correct and comprehensive solution. Then, normally, I added that in Article 4(1) after point 12, a new point 13 is added. So, aside from these 12 points you've listed, and there's nothing I'm going to read now, I thought you should accept. The amendment reads as follows: 13) providing advice to the holders of registered agricultural holdings in the interpretation of the laws and regulations in the area of agriculture. Why am I saying this? Because you well know that agricultural producers, as you call them, are now registered agricultural holdings, aged 60-65 and about 70%. You think they can get information about new laws and new regulations through computers? No way. You have an advisory service, but there must be one point in this advisory service, an addition to these 12 points, where you have almost literally not cited what you need, which is – providing advisory assistance to holders of registered agricultural land in interpreting the laws and regulations in the area of agriculture. To know what they need and when they need to file those fiscal bills for diesel subsidies, about fertilizers, about seeds, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40172	Two minutes. Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, and the Government and the Committee on Agriculture adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposal for a law on the performance of advisory professional activities in the field of agriculture, with the proposal to replace Article 9(1) "one year" with the words "three years". What was the idea of the promoter to improve agricultural production in Serbia is to appoint a agricultural adviser. To point out that, in addition to having a licence and enrolment in the register of agricultural advisers, this adviser must be employed by a company or entrepreneurs. However, the promoter in Article 9 foresees that a year of working experience is sufficient to carry out advisory work, which is still little for such a responsible duty, which will be of paramount importance for those farmers who need advice, whether it is the launch of vegetable production, fruit production or farming, etc., any error and poor assessment of the adviser can easily drive the farmer into bankruptcy, which I do not think is in anyone's interest. According to the Ministry, one year is enough for natural persons who have acquired higher education and who have worked on jobs in agriculture so that they can give farmers advice on the importance of living and working in the countryside and farming. However, this period is extremely short, and I believe that for three years it is an entirely optimal period for which a person could both professionally and with a lot of experience to gain some concepts of what is going on in agriculture and could play that advisory role.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40174	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly every council is always welcome, that waist should always be asked. Our agriculture is always in need of concrete well-intentioned advice. Of course, our agriculture doesn't need employers, and above all, we don't need employers because we have bad experience from all the other privatisations that you've been doing on a warrant, so through these system laws, you've systematically tried to bring down our agriculture. We don't need employers from America, because apparently their lobby strengthens the territory of all Europe, that they want to enter all markets, especially with modified organisms. It's not well-meaning and it's not good. America doesn't think well of anyone, an artificial nation can't think well of anyone, the EU, a satanic creation, can't think well of anyone, and at least think well of Serbia. Serbia has an incredibly high capacity when it comes to agriculture. Our resources are such that they can provide a lot of inflows, above all Serbia and our agriculture. We're sure our agriculture needs one household relationship, we need a host, but we're also sure that this government isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40176	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40177	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to delete the word "justified" in Article 18, paragraph 1 point 5. The draft law stipulates that the licence is suspended for a period of six months, if the service users deliver at least three complaints, applications for the work of agricultural consultants in one calendar year. I have to be honest, I'm not an agricultural expert, but I'm a farmer. Since I was a child, I've been on a farm since I was a cradle, where I probably didn't go to kindergarten to play with stuffed honey, but probably my parents left me in the field, in the end, in the village we say that on the turns, playing with the buses. That love of mine is to this day, at over 50 years old. Ladies and gentlemen, the village is crying out for agricultural advisers, for experts, for people who will explain to young people who have stayed in the country how and how it is necessary to apply this agrotechnic, how it is necessary to apply these inputs to agriculture, because in the previous speech, I said that 800 preparations appear today, when I say preparations, I mean herbicides, insecticides and the rest, but only 300 are registered. What about those 500? That is why it is necessary for these advisers to appear. It is also necessary to publish and say which varieties need to be sown on the surfaces, those that produce the highest income. Here I heard different stories of many who talked about agriculture, probably agriculture only see in pictures or when they pass by their cars and see if these areas are sown or not. To speak, one should give a word to those who know, who know, who produce, who help, who love Serbia, it is actually a peasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40178	On behalf of the 6th Amendment, MP Nikola Savic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the implementation of advisory and professional affairs in the area of agriculture. With my amendment, I asked that the title be changed above Article 22 be changed so that the words "agricultural producer" were replaced by the words "holder of registered agricultural land". I've been looking for this because the word "agricultural producer" is now becoming less and less used or almost used in laws. See all the accompanying laws that follow this area, the term is used everywhere – agricultural land. That's why I think this is a solution I've made to the amendment better, but you haven't accepted this amendment. It's interesting that in an explanation why you didn't accept the amendment, you're saying that the holder of the registered agricultural land is a narrower concept than the agricultural producer. I'm not an expert, I'm not a legal, I'm not a linguist, you might be right, I might be, but that's why you force peasants to register agricultural land, when they're basically very often of little use, and they're also having a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40180	The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. This amendment was adopted by both the Government and the Committee on Agriculture. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40181	On the proposal for a law on the conduct of advisory and professional affairs in the field of agriculture, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23(1) which regulates the issue of licensing of advisers in agriculture, which should read: "Operations of Article 22(1) of this law may be carried out by agricultural colleges, i.e. authorised organisations registered in the register of economic operators for research and experimental development in biotechnical sciences and in the register of scientific research organisations that have experts from all areas of agriculture, with experience in carrying out advisory jobs in agriculture, and at least five years of experience in performing education in the field of agriculture, as well as relevant premises, computer and software". I came from the fact that the responsible places of the agricultural advisers should be verified by a professional educational profile license, metric to give an official assessment of the compliance with the terms of the minister's licence. Agricultural colleges and relevant scientific institutions have been trained and authorised to issue certificates on the expertise of licence holders. I was of the opinion that licenses to colleagues who would be working on counsel's affairs should not only be issued by the ministry, but by a multi-reference scientific institution. But this solution that was offered is also good. Finally, I would like to add, in the capacity of the authorised representative of the Committee on Agriculture, that all the amendments we have discussed under this set of laws were not made up of our expert associates, so that the objections put on a certain order and a certain preparation of these amendments do not stand, because the amendments are exclusively the right and responsibility of all Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40182	Anyone else want a word? If we don't, this concludes our search of the bill in particular. After we've completed the search, I'm asking if the proposal's representative wants to speak on the basis of Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This concludes the work of the morning and continues the work in one hour, at 1545 hours, by debate, or by searching in particular on the 15th item of the agenda – amendments to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure. Thank you. [[After break – 15.50]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (single) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in particular of the draft law under points 15, 16, 17 and 19 of the agenda of the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, invited the sittings, in addition to the representatives of the motions Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, Nebojsa Bradić, Minister of Culture and Svetozar Čiplic, Minister of Minority and Human Rights, to attend: Vladna Jović, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Government, Gradimir Nenadović, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojić and Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Dušica Živković and Natasa Vučirković, Assistant of the Minister of the Republic of Culture, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic, Zoran Krasic, Boris Aleksic, Dejan Mirovic, Jorvanka Tabakovic, Veroljub Arsic, Mico Rogovic, as well as the Committee for Justice and Administration. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40184	This is the amendment, when amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act are already being made, and if in this room almost eight years ago almost all MPs have been identified as one initiative to preserve our language, that is, the aim of this amendment is to remind MPs and the public, that instead of the word "leader" is more appropriate to the word "adult of the Authority of Administration", not "rule of the Authority of Administration". That I do not now speak what it looks like when in the newly combined quasi-Serb language and functions they begin to express themselves in genders, and in the female – the president, so there are some grammatical, spelling and other rules that still require some respect. This is our intervention. We do not dispute the argument given on this amendment, where the government is expressing a negative opinion. It is right to refer to a large number of laws where the word "body manager" has entered, and it can be understood. In very important regulations it has passed – the Law on State Administration, so that now I do not order all the order that has been passed. I think it's time we split up a little bit, watch out for our own self-loathing. In the debate in principle, our representatives have proved, if I may say, both these historical roots and at all a genealogy of these concepts. Of course, we also called on Laz Kostic and Slobodan Jovanovic, our prominent scientists who have considered this area. And what I'm saying about this amendment right now is that you take the condition of being another in a series of initiatives to preserve what our roots are. Because after all, "the elder of the authority of the administration" has been with us a long time ago. It was later changed at the time of self-management and during those language variations on the subject of "brotherhood-unity" etc. I'm also using the opportunity to say that we really need a modern law on general administrative procedure. We need a law that will, of course, be based on the principles on which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which should enable the effective work of the authorities of the state administration when they resolve rights, interests and what is prescribed by law. When the work is done by the competent state authorities, of course, this modern age and the need to speed up, to be more efficient, to be more correct, etc. should be taken into account. It is likely that in some subsequent period a new law on general administrative procedure should be passed, and what is now done with these changes and additions is a real alignment with the changes that have been made. No more SRJ, no more Yugoslav citizenship, no more federal authorities, no more federal laws, and I'm almost all changed and counting. It's about a termological alignment and coordination. However, there is a need for some institutes, under the right of supervision, etc., emergency remedies, to have a lot of elements where this law should fundamentally change. It's not something epochal, but fundamental changes, taking first of all what life imposes daily, because we still have to follow this rapid rhythm, that the citizen is not waiting to resolve his rights and obligations. There's another part that's significant, and it's probably government representatives, and if it's possible, this Republic Secretariat of ours for legislation, if they're able to look at it. After finding the agencies we have had since 2005, regardless of how anyone interpreted them, whether only as regulatory bodies or something else, we must in principle solve the problem – public service, administrative organisation, administration, inspection control, supervision. In a principled way and to get it through all of our regulations, because if we don't, then we're going to have a really large number of capillary, para-state bodies that are wondering about everything and everything, and the state has no insight whatsoever. The state is the only one responsible. When I say state, first of all, I mean power. What we say is local government, it's not state, it's local self-government. When we say power, we mean first of all the government and the authorities of the state administration. The authorities of the state administration are the ministries. It is known, if it is professional affairs, it can be an administrative organisation. We already have some kind of confusion in public service. I think that this debate today should also be interpreted in this sense as not only a warning or a call, but a desperate need to seriously address what is called state power. Let's be serious in terms of normative arrangement, both from the point of view of jurisdiction and from the point of view, here we are now on this ground where the procedure is. This General Administrative Procedure Act almost applies to everyone. I say, they almost all apply. There's nothing in the courts, somewhat in the prosecutions, but their administration is already based on this, not to mention local self-government, ministries, administrative organisations, public services, somewhat public enterprises. After all, everyone else is working on those principles. That is why a very precise, clear regulation is needed to resolve everything in a pre-known way, with guarantees of respect for the procedure. No matter how formal the procedure is, it needs to be a great guarantee that the right process will consider citizens' rights and interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40185	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Boris Aleksic has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jorgovanka Tabaković, Veroljub Arsic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which added new members of 20a, 20b and 20v together were submitted by the MPs Jorgvanka Tabakovic, Veroljub Arsic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 22, which the government accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković, Veroljub Arsic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. After we've completed the search, I'm asking - does the proposing's representative want a final word, based on Article 144? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Officials of the Republic of Croatia on the use of Language and Letters (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs Milorad Buha, Zlata Đerić, Milorad Krstin, Jovan Palalić, Željko Tomić, Olena Papuga, Čedomir Jovanovic, Judica Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Natasa Mić, Vesna Pešić, Otto Kišmarton, Saša Maksimović, Jelena Budimirović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milica Radović, Dragan Zivkov, Miroslav Petkov, Aleksandar Pejčić, Filip Stojanović, Stefan Zankov, Dragan Čolić, Predrag Mijatović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Natašavić and the Government of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zlata Djeric and Milorad Krstin submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalić and Zeljko Tomic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40186	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment within which we want to clearly and precisely define who it is that can determine the traditional names of the settlements and we felt that it was important for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do so on a proposal from the Republic Council for National Minorities. In fact, we, of course, and when it was the law on national minorities that opposed the solution that was defined there, we felt that it was precisely a solution that was exclusively left to national advice that one of these sensitive issues was not good and that it could produce a series of conflict situations and misunderstandings, and we can say freely different and ethnic and political tensions in certain environments. The way that this issue can be resolved, by only being done by national advice, can lead to serious abuses and can even in paradoxical situations, when this whole concept is implemented to the end, that in the area of one municipality the name of a populated place in which national minorities do not live. It is therefore important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia conducts a single policy and takes care of the sensitivity of all these issues and, of course, to define this particular matter. In the context of the principle debate under this set of laws that we are discussing today, we have touched several issues, and of course, here I would like to repeat them, given that Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, is present today in that part of the debate. When discussing these issues was only Mr. Bradic and could not answer some questions concerning this very set of laws. We will start with the first question that concerns even the harmonisation of regulations in the Republic of Serbia with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, citizens in the referendum, the National Assembly in late 2006. We have passed the Law implementing the Constitution, defined the deadlines within which all the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia must be brought into line with the Constitution. We, here, are today doing exactly one such case, exceeding the deadline set for December 31st, today we agree to the Law on General Administrative Procedure with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It then raises a number of issues concerning constitutionality and legality in the Republic of Serbia and institutions that apply both the Constitution and the laws adopted under the Constitution. I want, of course, some questions that have been raised to the public as questionable here. The issue of law enforcement is something that, certainly, is a matter that concerns all citizens, all institutions and the Constitution's rights guaranteed by the laws are something that citizens with impatience expect to realize. At the end of the line, it is both a matter of political freedom and a general political system. But today we are facing issues of law enforcement and the issues of obstruction of law enforcement by different institutions or individuals. Then, in that obstruction or absence of law enforcement, various institutions are involved, in order to avoid it in the best possible way. I'm going to give an example that's really characteristic. We are all here in the National Assembly, primarily the ruling majority, in 2008, passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, where conflict-of-interest issues are defined. The law began to apply from 1 January of this year, with a deadline of 1 April, under which all persons who were bound, because they found themselves in conflict of interest in the application of the law, to come out of the conflict of interest, withdrawing from office, first, having the right to choose which functions would be denied, and after 1 April, we saw after the solution the Agency delivered, to withdraw from those functions. What's going on? Individuals who have found themselves in a conflict of interest, who want to keep their functions moving to include all possible institutions in Serbia in order to maintain these functions. It includes the Ministry of Justice which provides one interpretation, so the Agency which interprets the law is included, because it is the only one of its own, and now the Constitutional Court is involved, all in order to cast the law and that individuals are in the positions where they were found and definitely remain in conflict of interest. Now, a law that was meant to encourage rules within the political system, the absence of the accumulation of functions and in the ultimate line prevents corruption, is in a situation where different institutions include how to defend those who want to retain more functions. The question arises – how will this law apply? The second thing, very important, most of these officials are the mayors and presidents of the municipalities. Under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the post-April 1st was supposed to stop the post they later acquired. At the end of the line, according to the solution they received from the Agency, those persons needed these days, said the deadline the day after tomorrow, to withdraw from some functions, or at the very end of the line, would stop the function they later acquired. The question arises – are these people still in office after these deadlines? I'm saying this since Mr. Milan Markovic is the minister of local self-government. How will the system of local self-government work with persons who are no longer presidents of municipalities or mayors and do not want to apply the law and withdraw? A very serious issue, because institutions are trying to prevent the effects of a law that should contribute to the fight against corruption. On the other hand, we have another kind of problem. The absence of coordination in the interpretation and application of laws, which will be able to produce inconceivable consequences, in this case again, by the system of local self-government. Without entering the Constitutional Court's decision at all, I don't want to comment on it, nor should I. It is the Constitutional Court's decision, but we are talking about possible consequences in a situation where we have a proportionate electoral system and when that decision is taken now that a system of local self-government has already been established. What it will look like and what the consequences of that decision will be, we can only imagine. I got a series of memos with a large number of concerns from various local self-governments asking such a question. It's a serious fear and a serious misunderstanding in a large number of municipalities. I'm just going to give you one example that I got yesterday. I'll try to convince him. Two committee members resigned in a written statement. The assembly found their term of office. The Constitutional Court's decision is made. The day after the municipal board of that party has chosen new committees. They are not selected in order from the list. The verification of the mandate of the new committees will be immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision comes into force. At the time of the decision and the elected candidates, the Constitutional Court's decision did not take effect, but will take effect when the mandates are verified. The committee's replacement procedure began until the decision came into force, and it will end when the decision comes into force. An even bigger problem is with a large number of parties: lists are made in alphabetical order. You can imagine what kind of chaos this will be when the decision comes into force. Of course, we'll see how the Constitutional Court decides how to resolve the consequences. (President: National MPs, however interesting the subject is and the minister is in charge, please remember Article 103 and the obligation to speak about what is on the agenda. Go on. ) With respect to what you said, I wanted to simply look at the whole application of the law, because Mr. Minister is also in charge of the entire system of state administration, and I thought that this was an opportunity, his presence in the National Assembly, that these issues of functioning and application of the law would be considered, because at the very end of the line would come into question the application of this law that we are considering today, where we made objections through the amendment. In any case, these are some issues that have been raised in public with regard to the application of the law. The result of decision-making by individual institutions and it is certainly very important that a serious system such as local self-government is not violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40187	Seven minutes have been used by an authorised representative. On Article 4 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40188	Mr. Minister, I just want to explain my amendment. Since the amendment I made was not accepted by the government, the government gave its reasons for not accepting it. Meanwhile, the Committee on Administration and Justice has given the same amendment and the amendment has been accepted by the Committee on Administration and Justice. Of course, I was on that Board of Administration and Justice, and it was said that the amendment they made was the same as mine. I don't know why the government and the ministry didn't give me the opportunity to correct my amendment. I'm glad the amendment was accepted now. Maybe my idea was taken over and accepted by someone else, but I'm glad the amendment was accepted, no matter what it didn't come to my name and it wasn't my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40189	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Natasa Micic and Vesna Pesic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40190	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has sent an amendment to Article 4 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters and this amendment, and we wanted to abolish the limit, namely the censorship that would restrict the right of Members of Parliament to address in the Serbian Parliament in their native language. We are pleased, although our amendment has been rejected, that the Serbian Government has recognised our intention and similar amendment, and therefore the intention that we have spoken of this amendment has adopted and removed the provision of this Article 4 which speaks of this restriction, because that limit does not exist in the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, which, according to us, should be a roof law when it comes to the role of Members of Parliament. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity and talk about the possibility, i.e. the need for us to get a new law on official use of language in the coming period, although these provisions are the laws that we are today discussing provisions that comply with this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and Ethnic Communities. I think it is important that we get a new law, but we must insist that the new law amends the criminal provisions, because today we have in the territory of RS local self-governments which do not apply the provisions of the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and Ethnic Communities and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the official use of minority language. We are coming into a situation that we even doubt the possibility of implementing Article 4 of this Law, because as Mr Palalic said earlier, there is the possibility of obstructing certain local self-governments to introduce minority language into official use in those local self-governments where the percentage of members of national minorities is more than 15%. I have already informed the Ministry of Human Rights about this problem, which has sent a letter to your ministry asking you to act specifically in the Municipality of Priboj, where this provision of the law is not applicable and we must be aware that only criminal provisions can enable the proper implementation of the law, because we must not allow any provision of the law, any law, to depend on a goodwill or one individual or institution. The laws must be implemented and the laws must therefore exist and we must work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40191	45 seconds of MP time was used. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Otto Kismarton, Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40192	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Milica Radovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, in fact, Article 11, where it says - units of local self-government will necessarily introduce the language and letter of the national minority through their statutes, if the percentage of members of the national minority in the total population in its territory reaches 15%, according to the results of the last census. We've been distracted by the word – it's reaching, not because we've written very suspiciously, but because we don't think it's accurate. What does it mean we're getting there? Is that 3%, 11%, 13%, or don't I know what percent? We felt that the word – the achievements should be replaced by the word – exceeded, and that is what you wanted to achieve by this attitude 2. On the other hand, in the same Article 11, you have an attitude 5, where you say - the languages of the national minorities who are in official use in the work of the Autonomous Province body are determined by its statute, which is a direct violation of the Constitution, because the Statute of Vojvodina cannot speak and determine this, because the Constitution in Article 10(2) explicitly requires that the official use of other languages and letters be governed by law, and based on the Constitution. The question cannot be determined by the Statute of Vojvodina. Furthermore, what was particularly unacceptable to me was the explanation that you wrote here and you say – the amendment is not accepted, the decision in the bill is in line with the provision of Article 11(2). The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, you state that it is "the Official Journal" No. 11/2, and the adoption of the amendment would lead to discrepancies in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There are discrepancies, but the discrepancies are about how you behave and how these laws are new ones that you change in accordance with the Constitution. There's that discrepancy. I remind you again, read Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I am prepared to bear everything that you have told my colleague, Milic Radovic, in principle, in the manner in which it is an inappropriate language of democracy, but I will move on. In particular, you say further: it should be taken into account the provision of Article 20(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia towards which the level of human and minority rights can be achieved cannot be reduced nor was it the intention of those of us who have submitted the amendment. Our intention was only to bring the law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's the only thing we wanted to achieve. So we didn't think that the level of human and minority rights should be reduced, nor did we have any other intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40193	One minute of the MP's time was used. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40194	Already in a few discussions, the laws that have been passed before are in fact sublime. This is not a question of this law, a series of things mentioned here have already been established by previous laws, including the law passed eight years ago, which is the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. One of those things is this one. Therefore, this termology and that definition were established in 2002 and there is no dilemma to reach it less than it exceeds, i.e. that for a national minority it is better than this other. In that direction I can really say, wait, 15 is less than 15.1, so we're right. It's about that. This second, you misread the Constitution, there is no dilemma. The Constitution does not say that the law will determine which languages are in use and where, the Constitution says that the law will determine the way it will be determined. Therefore, the local self-government unit determines the use of the official language, we do not determine by law. For counterpart Hajdarevic, this is now in fact the basis when the law is adopted to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the statutes because this statute is clearly going to be illegal, i.e. it will not be in agreement with this law, so I know about the problem. decentralisation carries with it some effects, phenomena that we don't always like, and one of those phenomena is that you have a unit of local self-government that doesn't want to do that, something that needs to be done. Since so far it has been possible to introduce, now that it must, we have the basis to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. It's gonna solve that problem, and I'm sorry that someone out there wasn't conscious enough to do what they were supposed to do. So, as for my colleague, Papuga, I did not participate, I was called by a national MP, I spoke to Djura Muchenski, we discussed the amendment, since first there was an amendment relating to the address of members of national minorities directly to the republican authorities, so we found that we could not accept such an amendment with the best will. In your amendment, our problem was what you said yourself, and that's the question of standard. Which means "traditional" is hard to determine, and then we'd have to get into a situation, so we eventually decided, 15% is mandatory, and I think that's the right measure, and in practice there's no problem, it gives good results. SO where it lives less than 15% even though it's already established as a level of decent rights, of course, they can't change that. I'm sorry, I didn't know you were trying, too, but I think it's important that the final solution is in line with our wishes and our intensity and the standards that we have as a country in the area of protection of the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40195	The word has an MP named Đuro Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40196	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens, we are here as MPs and members of the national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia. We all work together to make it possible for members to exercise their rights by changing legal conditions. We all have good intentions to implement these rights well and practically through the laws that we make and change. If we see certain shortcomings in the practical way that will be applied in practice, we will do so. That's exactly what the intensity of our work was here. It is also proof that all members of the majority and also members of the national minorities have been thinking in this way about improving quality and not only putting it in the legal framework but also making it applicable in practice. This was the purpose of agreeing to submit amendments in different text forms. It is normal to have one vision from the point of view of the MP. It must be taken into account the reality of our lives and it is necessary to carry out certain consultations in order to have an idea through a practical amendment and live in nature. This was the purpose of the amendment submitted through the Committee on Justice because there was a certain danger of submitting amendments, where it would allow members of national minorities to address republican and other authorities at national level, to do something that could not practically be revived. Together with my colleagues, I took part in consultations with Mr. Minister Milan Markovic and Mr. Minister Svetozar Ciplic, in order to enable this right which stands and which has been quite inaccurately defined in addition to the amendment of the Law on Official Use of Language, in a practical way to allow members of national minorities to turn to the republican authorities in their own language. What does that mean, and what would it look like? I'd like to explain. In fact, we wanted to exploit the existing capacity of municipalities, i.e. Local self-government where the language of the national minority is in official use and that members of national minorities are through these capacities, i.e. through local self-government, they shall address the Republic authority and local self-government will be obliged to organise that part of the work and to bear the costs of the translation of the text itself and to refer to the text practically to the competent authority. So we will have a law that will be effective and that will be applicable in practice, and we will not create unnecessary costs in such an economic situation as it is. I'm pleased that this form of amendment has passed, because we got what we wanted. We have enabled members of national minorities to turn around, and at the same time it will not burden the state further, and we have all achieved a goal together, which is to work to improve freedom and the rights of national minorities in the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40197	Three minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Judita Popovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40198	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like to rely on these previous two discussions on a specific amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice and Local Self-Government. Here's the thing. In particular, in the legislative proposal, in Article 4, which in fact amends Article 11, after Article 7, a new position 8 is added, given that so far this amendment has been discussed, and has not been specified and explained, I would like to read to you this amendment, which reads: "Members of the national minorities whose number in the total population of the Republic of Serbia do not reach 2% according to the last census can address the republican authorities in their own language and have the right to receive a reply in that language through the local self-government unit in which the language of the national minority is in official use, with the local self-government unit providing translation and the costs of translation of the letter to the Republic authority and the response of that authority". So this is the amendment. I would like to remind myself of the position of the 7th legislative proposal, which says that members of national minorities, whose total population of the Republic of Serbia reaches at least 2% according to the last census, can address the republican authorities in their own language and have the right to receive a reply in that language. So, in fact, this attitude 8 is actually just being upgraded to attitude 7 completely unnecessary. Instead of simply erasing that 2 percent limit, we are now complicating the law and adding a new position that is effectively actuating the previous 2% limit. Maybe there wouldn't be a problem there either, so it can go through in that sense repairing one bad rule of law. But what's the problem? The problem is, you take local self-government units in general here, so that's where the language of that national minority is officially used. And what if someone is a member of the national minority, and let's say they live in Negotina, which is, for example, a member of the national minority of Hungary, what are we going to do, then do we commit to this law some local self-government in Vojvodina where, for example, in the official use of the Hungarian language, how are we going to oblige this local self-government to implement this rule of law? So we unnecessarily complicate, even when we have very good intentions, in that sense to meet the rights of national minorities, which is very good. This positive discrimination always comes in favor of national minorities, but in this case we are causing problems on the other side. First of all, I don't see the mechanisms that these local self-governments will be forced to do, which is how they're really going to realize what the law obliges them to do. Whether or not a system will choose which local self-government, if we have more local self-government where that language is a national minority in official use, how we will choose the appropriate local self-government to expose it, let's say, with some additional costs, because we see that the costs are borne by that local self-government. Wasn't it much simpler if that decision-making authority had already committed to delivering it to some local self-government for further processing of translation and so forth, to take on a purely ordinary obligation to find a judicial interpreter, an interpreter for the language and a national community and in that sense to implement something that this bill wished to do? It's the simplest solution. Therefore, it is not necessary for that authority to hire an interpreter for the language of a national minority, but it can always be part - time for an interpreter. In addition, the budget also provides for those funds for services under contract. Often these services are contracted and used completely irrationally, and this would be one very rational reason why these costs would be made. In addition to this case, when the law is unnecessarily complicated, I would also refer to my fellow counterpart Kenan Hajdarevic, who explained the amendment of the Liberal Democratic Party MPs, whom we had only one good intention to comply with the existing Law on the National Assembly, because Article 9 of paragraph 2 of this law does not provide for a limit in case any of the MPs wish to address themselves in their native language, which is the language of the national minority. Then we unnecessarily complicate this legislative proposal, because we put a limit on it, and the Law on the Assembly, where in Parliament, in fact, this MP will address the auditorium, or the MPs, and we unnecessarily place that limit of 2%. So, it's just that we need to comply with each other's laws, not get to some collapsing completely unnecessary. Writing the law is a complicated job. Proposing the law is a complicated job. We always need to keep in mind what results are expected of that law, in which way we intend to enforce those laws. If amendments are meaningful, celery, I think it should be considered two or three times whether or not they will be accepted, so in the event that some amendment and has some logic and improves the text of the law, it is indeed necessary to consult the MP who has submitted the amendment, and possibly correct that amendment. That's some kind of co-operation between the proposings and the MPs who are here to decide on the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40199	Seven minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Milan Markovic, and then by MP Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40200	When it comes to this 2% for the National Assembly, we have submitted an amendment that we are erasing because it should be the matter of the Law on the National Assembly, but it was so in the Federal Parliament, so we took it as a level of rights achieved. It is good that this goes one step further and it is normal that there is no limit, because the MP is a national MP, he will speak in a language that is his language, I suppose there is no dilemma. I disagree with you. We thought about accepting that amendment and that everyone could address the republican authorities in their own language. At this point in Serbia, we have more than 20 languages that are in official use. From the office of the republican authorities, then the interpreters should be used by the time they arrive at the ministry, that the ministry is distributed through interpreters, it is extremely complicated, that an interpreter is then engaged by contract. Whether there are interpreters for that language, there is no, whether it is free, whether it is not, that interpreter should come and be paid for it because it is not small money. His interpretation of a list probably costs as a whole to whoever does it in local self-government. I don't know what the tariffs of a court interpreter are now, but I guess who's an active lawyer here, to know that tariffs are huge. To hire a court interpreter to translate a text from Albanian to Serbian on three sides, so let's write it in Serbian, so he can translate it into Albanian again, so let's write some explanations to the office, that's all very complicated. My fear was, that's what I said to my fellow Martynski – don't, my colleague, write in the law something that there's a danger of not being implemented. No problem is for a member of the national minority to send any unit of local self-government where it is officially used to make the translation. It doesn't cost anything there, because that's where those translators work, they get paid what they get, and that's where it goes. That's how we figured it out. I don't think we're complicated, but we've opened up a new possibility for members of the national minorities. Believe me, I've been thinking a lot. I don't see how we can get 20 and some different languages in the state administration, that it's timely, that it's cheap. Cheapest would be to create a new government service. It would be a new government service with about 20-30 translators, etc. We're not in a position right now. The question is, would you find the frame? The translators won't work for the salaries we offer, that's 40,000 dinars, etc. So all of this would be a dead letter on paper, which devalues the legal order. I think it's important when we write the law to write what's real and what's going to happen, so we don't compromise the state. As for 2%, it's a standard that's established, that I can directly in my own language. Those who have below 2% can go through the local self-government unit, but I'll tell you something else. Practice has shown that here are members of the Hungarian national minority who do not use this benefit, although they can use it. They use it, but very rarely. I believe that this too will rarely be used, more perhaps sometimes someone sends that memo through the local self-government unit. That's why we're focused on this. So the most expensive is the proposal that you've made the most complicated. The second is the establishment of a special government service, but it is equally complicated, because the question is whether we could do it in the next reasonable period to organize it. This third proposal does not require any money, and counterparts Đuro Muchenski or Pavel Marchok can now turn to their language, just forward to the local self-government unit. Now you're saying who's going to force local self-government units? You see, local self-government units don't work on the principle of drive and punishment. Because if we were to get into that matter, do you know how many jobs local self-government units are doing are not supplied with any, any sanctions, absolutely no sanctions? Of course, that unit of local self-government that enters into that it does not comply with the law of the prescribed obligation, it can be punished by transfer, can be taken away from her business, with jobs to take away her money, and it is all an ugly story that does not happen in Serbia for good luck. Because it is very rare that we have conflicts regarding the enforcement of what is defined by the Republic law. We have another kind of problem in local self-government. It's a quality of doing business, etc., but we don't have and I don't believe that it's possible for us to say now that someone is referring to Subotica's letter in Hungarian and that Subotica refuses to forward it to the Ministry. I have to admit, and I just don't think that's gonna happen. You need to know one more thing. This is not about actions – the actions are something else. This is about memos relating to notifications, interpretations, opinions on the State Administration Act, etc. I'm sorry you're criticizing this solution, I think this is a really good and quality solution and it's actually going to deliver good results.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40201	The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40202	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, simply related to this amendment on the use of the language of national minorities, I would like to send one piece of information to my citizens from Sandzak. Regarding Priboj himself and the application of the Bosnian language in Priboj, because of positive discrimination, more than 20% of the population of Bosniak nationality in that area, I want them to know that a letter was sent at the beginning of the 12th month by the Sandzak Democratic Party to the Citizens' Protector about the application of the Bosnian language to citizens, or schools. The answer came that within 60 days, the statutes of the municipality, which will regulate the law and application of that language in Priboj, will be amended. The amendment regulates that neither the president of the municipality nor the institution will be asked literally nor the president anymore, but will be binding on all institutions, uniformly in the whole area of Serbia for any national minority where there is a number that is foreseen by law and that will no longer be a problem, which is the most important thing both in this amendment and in the Law with these amendments. The second thing, is often being manipulated politically – how are personal documents, then in the language of a particular national minority? I'm confident and I know, and I saw in the space where I live, in Novi Pazar, at the request of every man who wants to be issued a document in a language he speaks, which he wants, of course, in Latin, in that sense is issued without a problem, only at one point was a technical problem because neither was the program itself. They weren't technically equipped in the MUP to issue such documents. In this way, I just want to send a message that it's not a problem for those people who work in institutions that issue such documents, simply what they say was a technological problem. At this point, it can end without a problem, and at a personal request, you can always meet any man. This is the only way I'd like not to be abused when something is appropriate, to say, what we do here as MPs, and as it does in the direction of these laws, the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40203	Two minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. Does anyone want a word? If not, MPs Otto Kismarton, Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues Miroslav Petkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, which is now Article 11, and related to Article 4: On the territory referred to in Article 2 of this Member of the name of the public authority body, the names of the units of local self-government, settlements, squares, streets and other cannons are printed in the language of the national minority concerned, according to its tradition and spelling. We expected, Mr. Minister, that you would accept this amendment, because we wanted to limit the units of local self-government, some unconscious and irresponsible local self-government and their leaders – not to change the names of the names of the republican authorities, such as the MUP, administrative districts, etc. I say, we expected you to accept this amendment, because this amendment was meaningful and exceeded. Here and now you can comment on it – to accept this amendment. In fact, we wanted the word "names" to be changed by the words "names of local authorities" etc. On this occasion, we would also like to inform you, since you are the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government of the Constitutional Court's decision, in Leskovac where I come from, all the decisions of the So, if the decision applies retroactively, will be annulled and temporary measures will be introduced in Leskovac, given that one committee group has replaced 20 committees, with the right to have signed blank resignations. These people who have been replaced expect to return to the congregation. It's been five months since they left the Assembly. Since this condition has been met – that the Assembly has not been held for three months and that all decisions have been effectively decorated, I expect that answer from you, to help us. Normally, that will happen in other local self-governments. I would also ask you to invest your authority with the Republic Government, given that the devasted areas are the transfer funds that have been seized and necessary, we have now had an elementary disaster in Leskovac, a flood. You're aware yourself, you were down in southern Serbia, we lost about 130 million. I would ask you to pledge to the Government that these transfer funds are returned to these devastated municipalities, because municipalities like Leskovec and how these funds are needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40205	Thirty-five seconds of time spent by the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40206	Here, and here we have practically solutions that have been in our legal order for many years. You now want to delete from this law the solution that exists in our legal order for many years. Certainly, erasing such a solution would mean a reduction in the level of minority rights achieved, and a reduction is not allowed, since it is guaranteed by Article 20. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So this solution that we have here is a 2002 solution to this Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, namely to be even more precise since 1998 and 1996, when we ratified the Convention, we practically accepted this standard and it literally writes in the Convention. However, there are no dangers or threats here, or I do not believe that there can be a disturbance, that someone abuses this right, because it is about writing in language and spelling of a minority who is in official use in that local self-government unit, but besides language and writing in a language that is officially used in the Republic of Serbia, or in Serbian, a Cyrillic letter. So it's quite possible and it's perfectly normal, it's my opinion, that it writes the General Court in Bujanovac, and that it writes under it in Albanian. It's nothing to me that's controversial. Practically in the country where we live there are probably, I don't know, but these older people know, I guess that's how it's always been in the territory of autonomous provinces, and recently on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, without autonomous provinces, that's how it was applied, so that there would be this kind of equality among members of national minorities. As far as this second question is concerned, as far as I can, and now we've talked to the Committee on Local Self-Government, I'm fighting within the limits of possible local self-government units getting as much money as possible. He's got as much money as he has. We share that money together. That money is shared in accordance with the legal rules. Local self-government units in the consolidated budget came from slightly less than three to six percent of gross social products. We're making real progress. We have a crisis, of course. Last year was very unpleasant because of this unpredictability and reduction of transfers to local self-government units. If we exempt that exception, this situation is unpredictable, we have a relatively stable growth in the incomes of local self-government units in Serbia. As far as the Constitutional Court's decisions are concerned, we've talked about it now on the Committee, let's see it published, the day of publication comes into force, we'll see, we now only have a statement concerning Articles 43 and 47. I suppose everything else will be applied to those provisions of the law, unless the Constitutional Court itself has done something else in its decision, which you could practically do by that article, if I'm not mistaken, 59. Constitutional Court. We'll see what happens. As it will be. What I mean in a valuable sense, that's a step forward. It is good that such things happen, but of course it is a pity that we as politicians, as the National Assembly, as people who have been dealing with politics for a long time have not taken that step forward, but have waited for the Constitutional Court to do so for us. The system is stable. The laws we adopted together in the last term have indeed proved to be true in the course of nearly a thousand mandates that have been disputed since political events on our political scene, the same will be now, the system will function. Where it doesn't work, power will change. Where there's nothing he can do, there'll be new choices. What's important, the system works. We don't have the situation we had under those earlier laws with the direct choice of mayor that the system doesn't work, we have a blockade, and we don't know how to solve it. So it just doesn't take much to fear any things, because the law has an answer to everything. Unfortunately, sometimes it's an answer and a divorce, but it's better to have an answer than not to have any answer, so that we have a blockade and an unloved scene that marked that life of local self-government in the period when we had a direct choice of mayor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40207	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40208	I think little remains undetected what Mr. Pejcic explained with his amendment, the other part. The county doesn't have a name, it has a name. When you say the name, then you say the name and the last name, and the organs have their names. So maybe you could adopt that part. Otherwise, I won't comment on what you said - level of rights achieved. Everything I say doesn't apply to that, so someone doesn't call me. I accept, it is obligations etc. I get the impression that Mrs Popovic opened a very healthy resolutional one important topic. Although she did not say what members of the Constitution were concerned, I recognized from her discussion that it was Article 10(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Articles 75 and 79 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. She's quite the one who opened the topic at the level of principle. I think from her discussion and what she opened the whole contained practically this law defined. I respect all initiatives, what you want, etc. I would draw attention to Article 10(2) – the official use of other languages and letters is governed by law under the Constitution. Here's a little silly saying this -- based on the Constitution. It is understood - in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to individual rights, the stranger is guaranteed to use his own language during any procedure conducted in Serbia. It's undeniable. Everyone has the right to use their own language. We're talking about the official use of language now. It is indisputable in units of local self-government with a significant number of members of national minorities, however you want to interpret it significant, but we have reached a level that is parallel to the official use of several other languages besides the Serbian language. It's nothing controversial and it's never been questionable. Please, now I'm distracting you for this - on the basis of the Constitution. So, according to the Constitution. You see, we also warned you when the law concerning national minorities was passed in 2002, which Markovic was talking about here in this building, the rights of members of national minorities. It was later transferred to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to a special section on the special rights of members of national minorities. I will not now, Article 75, where it is said of individual and collective, however, Mr Markovic, in Article 75, there is no clear distinction where they are individual and where they are collective. Do you see the official use being pushed simply by national advice? See Section 3 – to exercise the right to self-government, culture, education and notification in the official use of language etc. to the National Council. Unnecessarily. It's absolutely unnecessary. We're talking about official use here. So it's a state thing. It's not about preserving an identity, where there's a plus, I'm not talking about it. See now Article 79 says - members of the national minority have the right - to use their own language and letters, to conduct procedures in their own language in the environments where they make up a significant population of state authorities, organisations entrusted to public authorities, authorities of autonomous province, units of local self-government. It's all defined. Nothing's disputed. Now I'm going back to what Judith opened as a topic. As an individual, it is likely that 98% of cases involving his status issues when addressing the first-degree state body are normally entrusted to the local self-government, to some local self-government unit authority, so that the state is closer to the citizens. Is that right? So there's no dispute there either. And it's all regulated and beautifully practiced, and reached at the level, and the obligation they had to meet the units of local self-government, to write down what is the official language on their territory. Now, to open these topics that were mentioned earlier, and Judith rightly pointed out, you don't need to open something because you can only complicate things. Then the minister said exactly what Judith said. He just adjusted it, let's say, to the state and to his ministry. What do you want him to do with 20 translators? Realistically speaking, what's he gonna do? There's a technical problem. Each individual uses his own language in every state procedure. That's guaranteed to him. A stranger, God forbid, goes through Serbia and makes an accident, he has the right to use his own language during the procedure. The national authority is required to provide an interpreter. It's impossible for strangers to be given more rights now than for our people. It's illusory to talk. Just let us not complicate the solutions, so that in practice it becomes a sort of opposite. That's the only reason I called. Otherwise, Mr. Pejcic is absolutely right. If you say so - the municipality and that, it's not her name, it's her name. If it is said – the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, it is the name of a state body, and it is not the name of a state body. That may have missed a little bit in this amendment. I think it was the basis to adopt it and to sort out a little bit of our regulations. Otherwise, there's no need to cause trouble where there's no problem. We simply all support this because the Constitution is not problematic, the Constitution has good solutions, and this level of rights achieved and it must be respected, as all rights acquired by each individual are respected. So there's no problem. So that we don't go to another extreme looking for something over, and we get the whole system complicated, and then it turns out to be a lot of trouble. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40209	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Palalyc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40210	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this topic has already been discussed in one of the previous amendments, when my colleague Milica Vojić-Markovic had an exhibit under one other amendment, but I would simply like to point out to this occasion how this whole procedure has been under way regarding what has been arranged in the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and what we are actually getting with these amendments and additions to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, when it comes to the official use of the language of national minorities in the territory of the Autonomous Province. The essential thing is what we had before and the essential question is, who's older here? In Serbia, according to the Constitution, it should be older law. Unfortunately, there is an impression based on these solutions that this law adapts itself to the Statute of Vojvodina and a decision that regulates issues relating to the use of the language of national minorities in the area of the AP Vojvodina, rather than what should be done contrary to that, that the Statute and the province's decision matter is more detailed and more precise, as it is written in the draft of this law. A series of problems with this provision of Article 5. Mr. Minister, you know very well that article 10 says that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. In the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which is defined here as a legal act that should be closer to the administration of this area, paragraph 2 states: "The application of the Latin letter of the Serbian language in the organs and organisations of the AP Vojvodina will be governed by the province's assembly decision, in accordance with the law." I ask here a question - where is the Latin letter of the Serbian language mentioned in the RS Constitution? How can this law, an extremely important law, ignore that question? Because the political and political will in this case was brought into this National Assembly, which was the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, was stronger than the right. This law is only there to define, on the one hand, the questions of official use of language and letter more precisely, clearly and specifically when it comes to local self-government, and this is seen in Article 11, and this is well done and, of course, leaves active local self-government to work things out. When it comes to the application and use of language and letters in the area of the AP Vojvodina, there is simply one sentence. So, there's the impression that it wasn't one of these important laws that wanted to get into what was defined by the province's decision that was closer to regulating the issue of official use of languages and letters, but simply wanted to avoid a potential conflict with the institutions of the AP Vojvodina and said -- well, with one general standard we founded you to regulate it, but we will therefore very precisely and in detail, which is good, what is the obligation of local self-government, exactly, the conditions under which, as the official use of language and letter applies, is defined by this law. So, there wasn't enough courage to put this one important law above the acts that are sublegal acts in the final line, and the Statute, and that province decision that was made much earlier under that Omnibus, was supposed to be adapted to this law. This law should have prescribed this precisely, in which way it would be in the official use of the AP Duke's language of national minorities, and then to make a new decision. This is the impression that Article 26, which defines the official use of the languages of national minorities, is left to one sublegal act to define the matter precisely and clearly. But what is the biggest problem, and I want to say to this occasion, is that, past the Constitution, by breaking the Constitution, which is why this Statute is unconstitutional, it introduces a Latin letter of the Serbian language, which does not exist in the Constitution and no body, nor the National Assembly, has anyone disputed it. We are now given the opportunity to use something in one part of the Republic of Serbia that is completely contrary to the Constitution and that the Serbian language, especially its letter, is otherwise treated here. There's only one letter in Serbian, and it's Cyrillic. The Latin doesn't exist. It's a letter from another people, it's a letter from the Croatian people and someone else, and we here inauguration something that is neither in our tradition nor something that is Serbian. Therefore, in this sense this provision is not good, this cannot work. It must be much more precise in this law defined, as is done when it comes to the use of the language of national minorities in the area of local self-government, you also had to do when it comes to the application of this language in the organs and organisations of rural autonomy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40211	People's MP Đura Muchenski has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40212	Dear President, I have listened carefully to my colleague of the previous speaker and cannot understand his reasons for explaining this amendment and for eradicating those provisions. I will carefully read, slowly, for the sake of the public, the members of the Constitution and what you say is contrary, practically, to the Constitution. Article 10. The constitution says: "The Serbian language and Cyrillic letter are in official use in the Republic of Serbia. The official use of other languages and letters is governed by law, based on the Constitution." Article 79(2) states: "In accordance with the Constitution, under the law, province regulations can establish additional rights for members of national minorities". I think the order of all regulations is perfectly clear here, and I see no problem in that the Statute of the Autonomous Province, based on the Constitution and on Article 79, established which official languages in the territory of the Autonomous Province are established by the province's regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40213	Mr. Jovan Palalic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40214	Dear fellow Martynski, I just said what you said. The official use of other languages and letters is governed by law. You show me where this law settles? The issue of the application of official use of language and letters in matters of local self-government, Article 11, but where is the legal issue of applying the language of national minorities in the area of the autonomous province, unless you consider it "the languages of national minorities in official use in the bodies and organisations of the autonomous province to be governed by the Statute"? What does that mean? This law says – we will not arrange, not regulate the law, but arrange the Statute. I'm just telling you that this provision is against the constitution. This law doesn't regulate it. What kind of law does it regulate? None. It is left to the Statute and it is against the constitution of this provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40215	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40216	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's time for me to say a few more words about what we're up to right now and let the matter be clear to the end. The 2006 constitution in Article 10 says that in the Republic of Serbia, Serbian language and Cyrillic letter continue to say that official use of other languages and letters is regulated by law, based on the Constitution, as Mr Djura Muchenski read. So, as far as we're concerned, the Constitution has settled this issue well. Now some have read from what the Constitution said in Article 10 that, since it is not explicitly forbidden Latin, it becomes the second letter of the Serbian people. It's amazing how fast it spreads and how much it takes. When I saw that there were amendments and additions to the Law, I was really happy, because I figured that we would now have something more concrete about this particular problem that is emerging in Serbia, and that Latina became the second letter of the Serbian people, that's what I read in many media, and that's what's being seen as the advantage of the Serbian people, which has two letters and can behave in a way to use one or the other, according to how it needs to be. I must warn both the public and all of us here, gentlemen of the People's MPs who, I suppose we love our people and our language, respect and want to preserve it, to the fact that UNESCO has recognised as the only authentic letter of the Serbian people of Cyrillic, and that it attributes the same UNESCO Latin letter to the Croatian people. So it can happen that one day, as the Albanians today possess Serbian monuments of material culture, and according to what the Union has determined, all scientific and cultural achievements written in a letter called Latina simply declare the culture of another people. It is a danger in which we bring ourselves by trying to be broad and by trying to explain to the Serbian people that those who advocate Serbian and Cyrillic letters, which I belong to, are the brakes of progress, because Europe does not recognise the Cyrillic letter. I didn't mean you, I mean the whole situation today in Serbia. So that Europe does not recognise the Cyrillic letter and that the way towards the EU means giving up its letter, its culture and civilization. This is not true, of course, because if we look at both Greece and Bulgaria using a Cyrillic letter, and they managed to work, especially Bulgaria, that in 2010 when printing euro, because it moves to the euro, it is all written in a Cyrillic letter. Europe has accepted the Cyrillic as one of its letters, and there is nothing disputed about making sure that the Cyrillic is braked towards the EU. On the other hand, I have to tell you that at one point, when Microsoft and Google came to the Serbian area, they had applications in Serbian that made the Cyrillic, but that for some reason, since we showed that we ruled in Latin and all others, they gave it up because we were overly complicated in our request to honor the Latin. One more thing to tell you, if you look at only this narrow centre of Belgrade today, and one study has been done, only 16% of the inscriptions are Cyrillic, and in Novi Sad there is 18%. It's scandalous because we're in Serbia, we're not in another place, and it's funny to degrade our letter in such a way. If we look at what the state of children's press looks like, with pictures, books, albums with icons, children's television, we see that only 20% of all that is in Cyrillic, 80% is Latin. We even had some children's pictures and books for children who were written in Croatian. It's not a different situation when it comes to adults. Only 25% of daily newspapers, books about 25% are written in Cyrillic, the rest are written in Latin, they say – due to the easier market. Of course, I'm not sure that our books and our printed Latin letters are read precisely because it's written in Latin in the former Yugoslav republics. Remember, each and every one of us, are there any daily newspapers written in Cyrillic? There's one, as far as I could find. What I want to say and what my appeal is and what may not be directly related to these amendments and amendments to the law, and I really liked it to be about changes and additions to this law, is that we think well of ourselves, that we respect who we are, who we are, and where we are, because Europe will accept us towards the degree of respect we have for ourselves. If we act condescendingly, as I notice we've been acting lately, no one will really love us, appreciate and understand us. It's hard to understand a people who deny themselves and their civilization achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40217	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Dragan Colic and Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on the publication of the Laws and other regulations and general acts and on the issue of the "Ombudsmen of the Republic of Serbia" (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mio Žalić, Miračić, Mirić and Draga Mirić. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mirko Lightning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40218	H I will read Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the publication of laws and regulations and general acts and on the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". That Article 2 says: Orders on the declaration of the law, indications on the award of medals and other acts of the President of the Republic, for which it is laid down by law or for which the President of the Republic decides to be published in "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". With this amendment, we asked to delete the words "or for which the President of the Republic decides to publish himself in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". "I'm going to focus a little on what we've been looking for with this amendment. I will go first from the government's explanation, which says the apparitions are being published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", except for the indications to be placed, are being promoted and resolved by the Serbian Army officers. It's okay and nobody slows it down. What no one is arguing about is also the next part of your explanation, the government's reasons for not accepting the amendments, which is that "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" also publish other decisions to which the President of the Republic, for example. Calls elections for MPs, proposes to the National Assembly of Prime Ministers, appoints Secretary-General of the Republic, appoints his head of the cabinet and other officials at the General Secretariat. And that's okay, because it's provided for by the Republic President Act. However, it leaves the possibility that the President of the Republic can decide that the other legal acts he brings are also published in addition to acts that are mandatory under the law. You say it even represents an additional possibility for citizens to be informed of decisions taken by the President-in-Office of the Republic when he assesses that the public is interested in them. "The official messenger" is, as we know, a means of notifying the public, which, in a large percentage, informs the public, I say in a large percentage, can even happen in "the official messenger" of a certain but technical error, which can be corrected. It's a means of informing the public that there's something, that something's been brought in and that it's making a commitment. That something exists and was brought into the form of the Constitution, the law and some sublegal acts, it is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". There are also acts published in the official AP, as well as acts published in the official local self-government. In addition to the fact that something exists, it has been passed in the form of a constitution, a law or a sublegal act, that something exists, in addition to making a commitment. This binding character of the law, as well as the sublegal general acts, is something that is very important, because in fact, all these laws and sublegal acts are united in one place, therefore, in the Official Messenger. Anyone who wants to know can find out in one place - what has been brought, when it has been brought, since when it is bound by what has been brought, whether it is the Constitution, the law or some sublegal act, as well as sanctions which will eventually be subject to it, unless it respects what has been brought and published in the Official Messenger. So he can find out and see all of it in one place, and that's in the Official Messenger. Whether something will be published, when it will be published, in which form it will be published, is determined by the Constitution and the law, and in our opinion, absolutely cannot be dependent on the individual will, of the individual will of a man, even if he is the President of the Republic. We feel that it is absolutely not good for one man to be imputed to a right that is not according to the Constitution and which is not legally his. The Constitution regulates the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic to Article 112, not to read the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. However, there is a fine conclusion and a fine saying, dating back to a long time, that says, approximately, that every man carries the wishes of kings within him, he would wish he could do anything against each other without the other being able to do anything against him. However, there may actually be some primal desire for one man, President of the Republic, to be imputed more rights than it belongs to both the Constitution and the law. The question arises: has anyone consulted either the president or the president's cabinet on this, that this act will imputate something, that is to say, to the authority of something that he has not had so far, something that has neither been foreseen by the Constitution nor by law? Indeed, after this and this amendment of this law, the president is left with the will to decide whether or not something will be published in the Official Messenger. We believe that this is absolutely inappropriate and that this amendment of the SRS should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40219	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40220	With this amendment, all I asked was for Article 2(2) to be deleted and to explain what it was really about. Mr. Munjic has run this topic nicely. It is not good when the draft law states within one member that other decisions are being published which the President of the Republic concludes is necessary. "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" is an official paper that publishes laws, indications, individual general acts, etc., everything that works and obligates citizens. The "officer" is a very important instrument, not only to inform people about what norms apply in the future, but is also a means through which to measure whether a legal act has entered into force or has not entered into force, no matter what time it enters from the day of publication. There's a need for precision. It cannot be said – and what the President of the Republic concludes. I took the name because in that first position there were talks about the President of the Republic as a state body. It's a similar situation with other organs. With this amendment I've made, all I'm asking is for this thing to be thrown out. Why should we have to publish the European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning the Republic of Serbia, as stated in this view? We are not against those crucial judgments, fundamental, significant judgments, in order to inform all those applying regulations about what some standards are. But if all decisions were made, all judgments of the European Court of Human Rights would be published in our official messenger, then our official messenger would become a means for something abroad, not our means. What should we do if there are several thousand disputes in front of the European Court of Human Rights? Then we should hire special numbers of the official messenger for those verdicts. Unnecessarily. We have an obligation to publish decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thanks to the SRS, the constitutional appeal also gained its true importance in the Law on the Constitutional Court and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of warning disputes before the European Court of Human Rights. That's what we talked about five or six years ago, and there's no reason not to remind us now. We are opposed to all these European Court of Human Rights rulings relating to Serbia being announced. That doesn't mean we're against those judgments. No, but the key ones, fundamental ones for some areas, should be published, in order for our courts to find out what it's all about. Our Constitutional Court has been involved and is considering many constitutional complaints – a reasonable trial, a fair trial, etc. They have considered all those disputes where for 20 years the court has not reached a verdict and thus warned that the disgrace does not come before Strasbourg. But it's a completely different dimension. It's our Constitutional Court, no matter what it is or what it decides, and it has contradictory decisions. The other day they made a decision that was a completely contradictory decision from 2003, even being the same president of the court. But then there'll be a time when we can talk about it. We are opposed to publishing all the European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning Serbia. Why? They're important, they're essential, they're fundamental to certain areas. And without publishing those judgments, our Constitutional Court began to interpret the article. Five and six. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, quite well interpreted. Although it's not hard to make a mistake, if 15 years of litigation has been conducted, it's not a verdict, or seven years waiting to be executed. It was hard to guess that some individual's rights were violated. Yes, you can tell from the satellite, let alone Mrs. Nenadić admit it. What stands for the government's response? They don't say – we have an obligation etc. No, the government is openly calling, imagine what? In Article 6(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: Regulations on the representative of the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights. Now the regulation is practically a constitutional basis for something written in the law. How does a man interpret that now? This morning we listened to an ideologist who said he was a cattleman and that he simply had to be involved in considering a bill to protect the profession. Here, I'm in this legal profession and I have to take this to protect my profession. The regulation was never a legal basis for law. It was only with Gaša Knezevic that the draft law could be the legal basis for an individual solution. But this isn't the first time. We have now, probably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, this central registry bill. That matter was regulated entirely by the regulation, and now it's passed to the law. Then the question arises – what is the difference between the law and the regulation? They'll say who brought it. The regulation was passed by the government, and the law should be passed by the National Assembly. That's not the point. The point of why something is passed as law, and something like a regulation is in meat, contained in it. How is it possible for the contents to be the same act, and when it is passed in the form of a sublegal and legal act? I also think that the issue of this agent of ours should be regulated by law, not regulation, regardless of which it represents the interests of the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights, but we should also pass a law on it, so that it does not tell fairy tales at the meetings of the Administrative Committee or suggest something, as some kind of improvisation, puts a finger on the head. So there's no adequate response not to accept the amendment. The amendment is not accepted because some regulation once prescribed something. If I smiled at that now, and everyone would laugh at it, I'd get a warning, and you're proud of something that causes laughter, how terrible the nebulise is. Do you know that, here, now this delegation in Strasbourg, that for three or four years now, the big problem in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is how to oblige countries to respect European Court of Human Rights decisions? The list of countries that do not respect the European Court of Human Rights' decisions is headed by the UK-United Kingdom, Russia, Belarus, Germany etc. But it can only be heard like this, otherwise, by the official representatives of our government, it can't be heard. Find me a country where European Court of Human Rights decisions are necessarily published in their official list. That you wrote that to me in response to this amendment, so I can bend my shoulders and accept it, but you are referring to the regulation on an agent of the Republic of Serbia in front of the European Court of Human Rights. What more can I tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40221	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dragan Šormaz together submitted the 2nd amendment. Mr. Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40222	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed on many sides observed this law is very problematic. Here, a colleague, Krasic, has now mentioned one thing, that the regulation is a constitutional basis. When I look at the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, then it is clear why all these solutions that are contained here, which are extremely problematic, extremely restrictive, should be seen what the ultimate intentions were, which are becoming very clear. Careful, the constitutional basis is Article 97th point 17, which says that Serbia, among other things, regulates other relations in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. It's the basis for this law. It just doesn't really stand. Why did he actually choose such a legal basis, a constitutional basis? Because the other one does not exist, in order to install into this law something which is certainly a restriction in relation to the current state of affairs relating to the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts in "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We get a number of restrictions here when it comes to the right of citizens to know what the rules, decisions or, in the extreme line dealing with this amendment, international agreements and agreements have been made or confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, we had a restriction by the possibility, a discretionary right by the President of the Republic to decide that some of the acts he brings are not being published. Now we are entering another problem, that the international agreements and agreements ratified by this National Assembly can come into a situation that is never announced, never seen by any citizen. The bigger problem is that the agreements concluded by the government's representatives, which have never even been ratified here, no one ever sees. It is only an additional problem, and we have had such a case and opened up to the public as a problem, and this is the famous agreement concluded by the government's representatives with Mission Eulex, according to the agreement, on the border with Kosovo. Look, you don't know who concluded this deal, it's not published anywhere, no one knows what it says, and it has to do with the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Now look at what you are predicting by this bill in this particular position, that confirmed international agreements and other international agreements, means those that are not confirmed in the National Assembly, are being published, for which it is laid down by law or by other regulation. What does this real thing mean? This practically means exactly this deal with Eulex. The government's locked him up. He's never been published. Now we're coming up with a key problem. Based on what? It is said - based on some law that will regulate what international agreements or agreements are those that will not be published. Let's look at this thing very practically. This law is in effect. The government has concluded an international agreement, and we do not have a law that determines which contracts or international agreements will not be published. Or even worse, the National Assembly is ratifying an international agreement and it is not being published. Based on whose decision? Based on the government's regulation. So, we can come on the basis of a solution to this law in the next situation, that the highest state body of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, confirms an international agreement concerning the state of the Republic of Serbia and citizens, and that the government adopts a regulation, because it is a regulation, which it says - we will not publish, that citizens do not have the right to know. It's a very big problem. In the end, a principle question arises – why should not every international agreement, especially an international contract ratified by the National Assembly, be published in the "Official Messenger"? What's the problem? We don't get an explanation for that decision. Not to say that we, from the law or from the government's intention, see that in some foreseeable future, there will be a law that does not have a constitutional basis to rule out the possibility of some international agreements and contracts being published at all. What's he hiding? What's the secret? What's the problem? We do not see a single reason why citizens have any knowledge of what the National Assembly is doing, in the end line, what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do, because citizens have a concrete benefit from it, or are familiar with their rights and obligations, or are they in the final line familiar with whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia protects the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Therefore, a very serious and dangerous law, this provision, especially as it introduces us into a very large legal volunteerism, into a vast discretionary right of the government to derrogate the decisions of the National Assembly in the sense that we are gathered here, who has watched the transfer, what we have decided, after that fell dark, no one knows. We didn't get any serious arguments about this concept that's being introduced here, and this is the concept of restrictions. The President of the Republic has the right to restrict which acts will be published, in the extreme line, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by its regulation, since we do not have the law, it decides that international acts adopted in the National Assembly will not be published. The only thing we can suggest after a bill like this is that this law is withdrawn, or at the very end of the line, that we get too much of an explanation why this is done. We didn't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40223	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40224	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to delete "or other regulation" in the third word. Why? You see, this is one possibility where many abuses will occur, and on the other hand, legal uncertainty is introduced this way. The SRS is for international agreements, even the verdicts spoken of by Mr Zoran Krasic to be published, but how? Those verdicts, according to Krasic, we do not accept being published in "The Official Messenger". Does it have retroactiveness? Is there in parallel that any country in Europe has any verdict concerning human rights made in Serbia that has also been published in one EU member state? I don't have that knowledge, and I don't think so. This brings legal uncertainty. I'll tell you on one occasion - publishing or other regulation. These other regulations may also be the rules of the local community or of the municipalities, or of the hunting society, or not to list. So, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" can publish international contracts, those established by law, and this other regulation, I think, brings legal uncertainty. These other regulations and sublaws threaten the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. They often derrogate basic laws. This is the case for you, for example – the Minister of Health or Director of the Health and Pension Fund of the Republic of Serbia adopts a regulation and puts the Health and Insurance Act out of force. This was an example to you so far that the citizens of South Banat and Panchev had no right, nor were they able to choose to come to Belgrade to be treated. Therefore, this is a major problem if someone is given a regulation or otherwise, some other sublegal act regulates a substance that falls exclusively under the legislation. I'm staying with this amendment, I wouldn't take my time with my colleagues, but I find this solution absolutely unacceptable and I'm staying with the amendment and I suggest you adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40225	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40226	In essence, Mr Palalic's amendment and this amendment to Petar Jojic (President: The SRS has 43 minutes left. ) is essentially a similar amendment, not to say identical and opens next to this question that Mr Palalic was talking about – whether they exist (President: Excuse me, 41 minutes). ..... Okay. Thank you. In addition to this question that Mr Palalic was talking about – whether there are secret and public agreements, it is probably clear, if some secret agreement is then it is not published, because if it were published it would no longer be a secret agreement. There's a lot of these so-called so-called history in history. secret agreements. Unfortunately, and in these places here, as they used to say, there were too many secret international agreements. Let's go back to what's the main topic. Almost daily in this congregation, we face something called ratification, or confirmation of an international agreement. This is once a memorandum, declaration, convention, contract, protocol, etc. This is all the rank of an international contract, if it is one of the RS Contracting Parties and the other is a state, so it is a bilateral agreement, or an international organisation or a set of states, which are multilateral agreements. Since the century, since the Vienna Convention, it has been known that the act of ratification has been carried out in the form of law. It's always been like that in Serbia. The ratification law, the certification law, is passed. Article 3 of that law is always an order for an international contract to be published in the Official Messenger. While it was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it was in federal jurisdiction, and it was in the Official List. Since this constitution was created, then "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", a special edition of "International Contracts", where all confirmed and ratified international contracts have been announced. There is no other regulation in which a notice would be made. It doesn't exist. So, there is a Constitution, there is every concrete law on the validation of an agreement and, as a rule, Article 3 and Article 4. Some times, Article 3 may be a restriction, the exclusion of the application of a certain Convention, a certain contract in a particular territory on certain issues, because, depending on the level of negotiations, Member States, signatories of an international convention, are allowed to restrict the application of the Convention on the part of their territory or to read what they want from the nomenclature of the solutions offered to oblige that State. There's always a warrant for publication in "The Official Messenger" in that certification law. Why? Because it binds to the degree of force. In practice and at this session, we have several such laws on the validation of some international contracts. We have a situation where, in the text of the international treaty, the early and provisional application of the contract before ratification is carried out, which cannot happen. You remember the famous agreement Vuk Draskovic concluded with the Americans on the passage of their troops, etc. It began to apply as soon as it was signed, and it waited several years for ratification. That's what happened. Today we have legal traffic several agreements that are certainly in the ranks of international ones, where our prosecution has concluded with some prosecutors. It never came to the National Assembly for confirmation. This is what Vukcevic in Zagreb, Vukcevic in Sarajevo, etc. Now to return to the very essence of this amendment. Therefore, the order on the need for publication or publication obligation may only be in the law on the confirmation of an appropriate international contract. That is why these words—or by other regulation, there is no other regulation. That other regulation could be the Foreign Affairs Act. The second regulation could be about foreign affairs, as it should now be properly called by that law to provide for a whole procedure that comes to an international contract, which are stages, as a real platform, which negotiates, who approves, the first round of talks, the second round of talks, what the government approves, what the government does not approve, who represents, who signs. In this country, everyone is now signing an international contract. And the secretary of state started signing international contracts on behalf of the state. Of course, they always have the government's conclusion that she empowers them to sign off on behalf of the state. Here is the main danger in these few words, three words – or another regulation. There's no other regulation. It is the Constitution and the law on the validation of an international agreement. When something like this is put on, and yet blindly defends that attitude, then it is right that Palalic may doubt it. We can all rightly doubt it. Are there any secret agreements? It is safe, but they are secret because they are not published and they will never be published and it is not the subject of this amendment. The theme of the amendment is that there is no regulation giving the order or prescribing the obligation to publish in "The Official Messenger", except for the law confirming a certain international contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40227	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40228	The situation here is very simple. When the Army Act is passed, the Defence Act, the Service Act, material, work, etc., it goes to the Official Messenger. We also have an RS Military Official Messenger. Then the question arises: what is revealed in it? We were merely asking for appropriate terminology intervention – points out the other acts of the President of the Republic, since he is the Commander-in-chief, that must, regulations and other acts of government, must, because jurisdiction between the President, the Ministry and the Government, or the Minister of Defence, is all right. It stands here now -- referring to Serbia's Army. We say – concerning members and service. We want to define what's being published there, because someone might interpret that there's an announcement of everything and everything. There are some things that never get published. These are the plans of secrets, etc., but the promotion, sublegal acts concerning the status of persons in the armed forces, etc., that should be published in that list, but by its definition, these general acts are narrow and apply to what is the military sector and the defence sector. That's what it's applied to. That doesn't have to go to the official messenger. It needs to be on a special military list. We just tried to define what the character of these general acts would be, although there are individual acts that are being published, indications about the appointment of commanders, chiefs of service, etc., and all of this should be announced, but this is how when it comes to the military, it is too wide and in this great broad interpretation it can happen that some things are not published, and they are necessary for the functioning of the military and defence system. There, that was the purpose of this amendment. There was nothing else. We are aware of the fact that such a list must exist and that, above all, all the acts that are published here directly concern the service and members of the army. It's not about ordinary citizens, it's not about them directly. I can be interesting. As far as all citizens are concerned, it's the Law on the Army, the Law on Defence, the Service, what we've already brought here in the National Assembly, Security, etc. It goes to the official messenger. This is about the acts of the Supreme Commander, the Government and the Ministry, as a rule, all sublegal acts, and we want to define that these sublegal acts apply to members of the military and to the functioning of services within the army. Let's just try to define that it wouldn't happen that in that official messenger military announcement, let's say the composition of the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic. Maybe there's some touching points with the military, maybe there's some in the same building, and there's nothing else, that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40229	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Mirko Munjic. Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's now for the sake of the public to read only what it says in Article 4, so what we've been asking for with the amendment to be deleted. "The publication of the European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning the Republic of Serbia is being addressed by the ministry responsible for human and minority rights." So, by our amendment, we've asked for this member to be deleted. The question is, what is the legal basis for introducing such a provision into one of these laws? When you spoke of the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, you said the constitutional basis was contained in the provision of Article 97. Serbia's constitution, which says the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides other relations of interest to the Republic of Serbia, in line with the Constitution. I think that's the last indent of this Article 97. Therefore, this provision of Article 97. The constitution requires, under one, that these relations, in addition to being of interest to the Republic of Serbia, so this is the first condition, the second condition is that they must comply with the Constitution. The obligation to publish a verdict in the Official Messenger must only be established by law. For example, the obligation to publish the Constitutional Court's decision was established by the Constitutional Court Act. The Constitutional Court Act clearly states that decisions of the Constitutional Court are published in the Official Messenger and that is all right. However, I ask the question is it an obligation for the European Court of Human Rights to be ruled, therefore, by any verdict of the European Court of Human Rights somewhere? Has that been prescribed by any law so far? It wasn't prescribed by any law. The European Court of Human Rights is not a national institution, not an institution of national character. You cannot compare the European Court of Human Rights with our Constitutional Court, with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is the highest judicial instance in Serbia and the court's rulings are published in the Official Messenger, but based on the Constitutional Court Act. In this Constitutional Court Act, it is also prescribed and it is quite clear. However, publishing the European Court of Human Rights rulings along with those regulations and decisions as defined by the Constitution and the law is in some way legal violence against both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws that regulate it and for these very reasons we are asking that this member of the bill be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40231	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40232	Madam President, Mr. Munjic and Mr. Krasic gave a valid explanation and highlighted and explained certain objections, what should be published, how it should be published and whether it is of importance for the Republic of Serbia. Madam President, please as a top medical expert to allow me, I would like to announce some good news for the citizens of Panchev in the matter of health and treatment. I just had a conversation with the Director of the Health Insurance Fund of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the prime minister, Dr Cimeša Dragomir, and he respected all the efforts of the SRS MPs to put aside one rule of the Director of the Republic Health Fund and to respect the law. I'm taking the opportunity to announce one happy news again, with your permission, that the citizens of Panchev may, from now on, also South Banat, Kovin, Kovačica, White Church, Vrsac, Plandišče, Alibunara...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40233	You know what, but you'll leave that for Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40234	I may not get a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40235	I can't allow you when you're so decadently asking me to let you break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40236	I'm not breaking it, just to announce to the citizens of Panchev, that they know they can be treated and there are no more obstacles thanks to the understanding of good people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-27-0.u40237	A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 4th amendment, however, we have two or three minutes left. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: I will talk about this amendment in the morning. We'll continue our work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Elvira Kovac, Milos Aligrudic and Arsen Đuric. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings in addition to representatives of Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, Nebojsa Bradic, Minister of Culture and Svetozar Čiplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, to invite the sittings to attend and Gradimir Nenadovic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojčić and Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Dušica Zivković and Natasa Vukković-Lesandrić, Assistant Minister of Culture, Slavica Petrović-Maksić, Head of Legal Affairs in the Department of State Administration of State Administration and Local Self-Govers. I welcome those present. We're continuing the search. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts and on the release of the "Serb's Official Voter" (Serbs) to Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
