ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35244	We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the sittings. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall at present, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35245	Dear Presidents, that is, already vice presidents, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens who watch this direct transmission, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I have a question, that is, a series of questions, and I request a series of notifications from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jovan Krkobic. Of course it's about pensions for our oldest citizens. I want to know, and I believe the entire public in Serbia and our oldest citizens, who have done their pensions fairly and earned their pensions, what does the Government, or Mr. Jovan Krkobic, as the most responsible for the status of pensioners in this country, so he forced himself, so in the election campaign he hinted and promised, what do they intend to do with our oldest citizens, their existence and their standard? For statistics, I just want to say, the highest pension in Serbia is 102,766 dinars. The lowest age and disability pension is 11.088 dinars. The average agricultural pension is 8.384 dinars. Why am I asking this and I want some notices? Because it seems to me that Mr. Krkobbic has statements that are more warring, to God's protection for that category of population, therefore, the oldest citizens, and that these are statements for internal political use, and it is otherwise discussed with the IMF. So, in recent days, we see from Mr Krkobic's statements that he is really very concerned, as the people say, about the pensioners, but that they are about to make their intentions, which I do not doubt, in their honesty, have failed to achieve in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. This is also evident from the International Monetary Fund statement. We have indeed indisputable statements that pensioners will not be reduced, that their pensions will be increased in line with the growth of salaries in public enterprises since April, everyone listen well, fellow MPs – since April 2011. In December 2010, it is likely that pensions will be increased in April 2012. That's right from the first day of this government's work. The government's threat of falling, of insisting on pensioners' rights in the government, left nothing left and all turned into soap bubble. It is clear that Mr. Krkobbiæ, for the sake of survival in power, I do not know how long, a few months or perhaps a year, I will not speak any hard word, but I will say – he neglected the interests of our oldest citizens. I know that most pensioners did not vote for Mr. Jovan Krkobbic's party, but he still has a duty, as the resolutely in charge of the government's vice president, to go before our oldest citizens and to honestly tell what's true. How can a pensioner with 11.038 dinars survive, when his pension is reduced every day, given his dinar decline, euro growth and price growth? So these are people of the oldest age, who cannot change their standard, to improve social status by some additional work. They worked fair and earned their pensions. I would like to remind all of you that even Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic spoke at the beginning of this government's work, and with this she agreed that the lowest pensions should be increased immediately, and such pensioners have almost 300,000, which have 11.088 dinars, I repeat, 11.088 dinars, full-time or disabled pensions. How these people in this time, when almost half the population is fighting for basic existence... But let's be honest, they can do something younger, some extra work and make some money. So I ask Mr. Jovan Krkobic to come out and tell the citizens of Serbia the oldest age, our pensioners, what their fate is in the coming months and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35246	The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35247	Madam Vice-President, Mr Markicevic has already talked about pensions, but the problem is so great that it is not a waste to say another sentence about it, only that I will not ask Mr Krkobic for an answer, but the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who is the most responsible for the work of the government. We were anxiously expecting the end of the third review of the stand-by arrangement we have with the International Monetary Fund. The importance of the arrangement is extremely important for all citizens of Serbia for a number of reasons. We received information that everything has been agreed and that the most important issue, which has plagued 1,600,000 pensioners, as many as are now, and all citizens of Serbia, has been agreed. It is a matter of reforming the pension system, the way pensions will be coordinated, the indexation issue and all other problems related to years of work experience and all that we are interested in. How did that question work out? By increasing pensions from April 1st next year, which means a little more than a year, it will be harmonised towards public sector salary growth. It's obviously a solution. I think this time the problem is solved by making another problem. Pensions will be harmonised towards public sector income growth, and there is not a single word, it will only be agreed on how salaries in the public sector will be harmonised. In fact, it wasn't the pension problem that was solved, it was transferred to another problem. What is extremely important for pensioners and all citizens of Serbia, is whether this model is sustainable and whether the day will come in six or twelve months, when it will be said that the model also cannot work. There have been a lot of experiments in Serbia in recent years and decades. Does such a model exist anywhere in the world? If there is, how does it work? Serbia has been an experimental country in many cases, which has applied unique models, and the results are well known. Here is what Albert Jaeger, who sat on the other side of this team who said that everything was agreed: "The proposal to bring pensions into line with public sector wages growth is the government's proposal, according to which we are skeptical. Maybe there's only one country that tried and gave it up. Pensions will be coordinated starting in April 2011 and the agreement is that pensions will then rise to a small price rise and that pensions will have a share in the 10% gross social product budget. “ That’s what Mr. Jaeger says. He says that there is no such model anywhere in the world, that it is applied only in one place and that it has given up very quickly, and says that pensions from the current 14% of the gross social product will fall to 10% of the gross social product. The promise is that pensions will continue to grow, with the number of pensioners increasing in mass, although each year the number of pensioners will be lower. I don't know the mathematical model by which it's possible, and apparently, the IMF mission doesn't know. I have a question for the Prime Minister: what exactly is agreed with the IMF and in which countries are taking examples, is there any parallel practice with the proposals proposed in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35248	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already been paying attention several times that these questions are becoming completely pointless because there is no answer. I think that the government and certain ministries do not give answers in some way acknowledge that there are problems that they are not prepared to come out and inform MPs, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then the question arises as to the role of our congregation and the questions that we ask. On July 16th, I asked a question about the MiG-29 crash and the deaths of Colonel Radet Rangelovic and asked me to get a notice when a full investigation ended, which caused the accident and caused us to lose one pilot and one plane, especially in view of the fact that on 24 September 2000, Lieutenant Colonel Istvan Canas also died during an instant flight on the plane "Galeb 4"; MIG-29 on July 7th, we lost two planes in less than a year. Given the fact that the MiG-29 is approximately $28,000 on the market, I don't know how much a seagull is worth, I haven't been able to get that data, but it's probably about $30 million, if you take two lives lost, I expected the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be informed about what caused these accidents. Unfortunately, to this day we haven't received a notice, but based on the VBA report there in some way, I find it embarrassing to be informed that this other accident occurred by a pilot error. At a meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, General Svetko Kovac, General VBA, admitted that it may have been very harsh and hasty, or admitted that the loss of the plane was not caused by the pilot's mistake. He couldn't have been caused by the pilot's mistake because some inconclusive facts suggest that Colonel Rade Rangelovic was not ready to carry out the task that someone gave him. Someone who orders or asks to carry out a task must have some facts in mind. First of all, it must be meant that for such types of flying, acrobatic flying, pilots should be top-of-the-line trained. I have no doubt that Colonel Rade Rangelovic was, but they should have had at least 300 hours a year, and Colonel Rade Rangelovic had a total of about 900 hours in his 25-year career; in the previous year, he had only 25 hours. If you consider these facts, it is clear that he could not have done the task. I suppose Rade Rangelovic, as an honorable and courageous man, accepted the task, but regardless of what he accepted the task, in that chain, from the moment the order was requested, there is a obligation for those who are competent to give their opinion in accordance with the profession and to say whether someone is able to carry out the task or not. Everyone agrees, based on this data, that Colonel Rade Rangelovic could not carry out this task. I ask the question - who ordered the emergency flights and did someone in that chain make an observation, or made it clear that it is not possible to do this because objectively, the facts speak, the pilot is not, though he will, ready to carry out the task? If we had done so immediately after the first accident, we would have avoided this second accident; if we had now received the report and all the data, we would have prevented future accidents, which are possible, because there are obviously some systemic problems in the Serbian Army and there is a danger of losing not only the funds, but also people. I would ask that my question of July 16th with these facts that we have received on the Committee on Defence and Security be referred to the Ministry of Defence again and that the exact answer, with a report from the Committee on the accident of the aircraft and all these new facts, be delivered to the SRS parliamentary club, or to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you, Mrs Comic, that with your reputation and authority, as a representative of the Democratic Party, explain to the executive government that it is under the control of the legislative authority and that these simplest obligations are fulfilled in time. I think that will get us what you want, that democratic processes are developing in Serbia. Thank you so much, and I'm so sorry for taking so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35250	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35251	I want to ask the Government a question – to what extent is the Government competent to monitor, control and implement its laws at the level of local self-government, and, above all, to control the application of the State Aid Control Act? It is the town of Kragujevac and the contract concluded between the company "Femili sport", Kragujevac and the Public Enterprise for the construction of the town of Kragujevac, which without income, or below the quoted cost of renting land, reduces revenues to the town of Kragujevac, and to a significant extent. I'd like to ask on what basis, is the government aware of that and is that contrary to the law that came into force on October 1st? Can he in any way connect to the new Regulation on the renting of building land? Namely, it is a contract that the town of Kragujevac concluded with the mentioned company on renting three and a half hectares of land at a specified price of 14,000,000 euros, I read the information from the contract obtained regularly by the town of Kragujevac, where the price of 40,000 per ar is defined by Article 2 of the Treaty. However, in a contract concluded, I do not know on the basis of which number of workers to be employed, i.e. what is the interest of pensioners, maternity, pregnant women and other citizens of the town of Kragujevac, or the budget of the town of Kragujevac is so full of money that they can give up income from the numbered price of 40,000 euros per ar and that it falls at a price of 100 euros per ar... So in public, an ad has been made, a price of 14,000,000 has been auctioned, and it has eventually turned into a contract with a price of 35,000 euros. Since that value of 14,000,000 fell to 35,000, it could be seen from Article 3, where a reduction is possible. It is not clear whether it is contained in the basic price or how these bonuses will be realized, but it is interesting that the obligation of the performer, that within a year, means from 4 December 2008, when the contract was signed... The papers aren't started, there's no information that the contract is broken, no one's planning it. In particular, I call on my colleague Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Committee on Environmental Protection, to be responsible for how they have become involved in solving the problem of cutting the plateaus up for this case, as it is about building a certain complex with apartments and following sports fields and facilities, but in a memorial park, whose territory is these three and a half hectares of land. Please the state, represented by the elected government, to say whether the mayor or any current parliamentary majority can behave in such a way as to lower the numbered price of 14,000,000 for any reason to 35,000 euros? And for what reasons (the number of employees) does such a concession seem to anyone, in the area where greenery is now called the memorial park, without the unfulfilled contractual conditions absolutely obliging the state to preserve what is called land in the state property, which is given to the use of the town of Kragujevac? Since we have a common threat to the implementation of a regulation on which local self-government will issue building land and at lower prices than market prices, if the Government is to give consent – because it is the sweetest and most interesting part of the work that the Government likes to do, to agree to, to be asked by someone – the government should say that it will be responsible and that it will not allow individual local officials to have the land at their own disposal, but in accordance with the law. I really ask that the necessary measures be taken to preserve the memorial park and respect the law that I have stated in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35252	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35253	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected vice presidents and respected presidency, I have a question for Minister Verica Kalanovic regarding the criteria on which the NIP funds have been allocated and allocated for this year. I ask this question for two reasons. First, because the government of Vojvodina sent 295 projects from Vojvodina municipalities recommended for funding, 29 projects not recommended for financing. It was all arranged within the legal deadline. We come to the fact that the Ministry obviously violated the law by granting funding to these projects because it did not respect Article 75. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which was adopted in this same assembly, which obliges the Ministry to consult and work in these affairs with the Government of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, the approved projects, which are only 13, do not correspond to the draft list of projects submitted by the Government of the AP Vojvodina in good time by content or priority. Of the 13 projects that were accepted for funding and are located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, of the total of 398, the funding this year, only five were on the wider list of projects recommended by the Government of the AP Vojvodina, in turn: in 143rd place of importance, 154, 281, 312 and 313; two were on the list of projects not recommended for funding, and the remaining six were not even on the list that the Government of Vojvodina provided to the Ministry. We are coming to the conclusion that again we have a story about decentralisation without decentralisation, that we have put something into the law as the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which we have no intention at all to carry out and that some obviously think that decentralisation, regionalisation when someone is sitting in the Ministry of Belgrade and determines what it takes, how much it needs, and how it needs it, not taking into account the opinion of the citizens of a region or their legitimately elected representatives. The second reason I'm asking this question is an obvious disproportion in project financing. As I said, of the 398 approved projects only 13 are located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's 3.34% of approved projects. When you look at the financial resources that are defined, it is seen that out of 26.052.000,000 dinars in the AP Vojvodina, only 477,649,911 dinars, which is 1.83%. The people of Vojvodina will not benefit from 2% of the NIP this year. When you look at which projects are approved, and which are not, you can see, let's say, of the 86 projects related to adaptation, school renovation, entertainment, sports halls for children, only three are located in Vojvodina, none of which are on the list provided by the Ministry of Education. Thus, for example, a school for children with special needs in Novi Sad "Milan Petrovic" did not receive an approved project, but that is why it was for Mokru Gora, Emir Kusturica in the NIP place this year. Thus, the largest project in culture this year in Serbia will be the adaptation of the NBS gallery space. All this puts me in a position to ask a question on behalf of the people of Vojvodina – on what criteria are these projects allocated for funding and why is the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina violated?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35254	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Sinisa Stamenkovic, Aleksandar Pejcic. Given that the Legislative Committee has completed its work, as well as the Committee on Justice and Administration, and that the multiplication of the report on the amendments adopted and considered at meetings of both committees is under way, on the basis of Article 85, I shall set a break of up to 12.15 hours. I am informing the MPs, in accordance with Article 85, that from 12.15 p.m., when we continue the search in detail, we will be working without a break until 16.00 p.m. I also inform you, on the basis of Article 85, that our work today will run from 16:00 to 19.00 a.m. during the session when MPs are asking parliamentary questions and that at 19.00 p.m. we will end work for today. I'd like to ask you to keep us in the O.R. at 1215 hours, to continue the search in detail of the National Assembly Bill. Thank you. [[After break – 12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY (dividence) You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: Susana Grubjesic, Aleksandra Janković, Radovan Radovanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Milan Avramović, Aleksandar Martinović, Dusan Marić, Boris Alexić, Zoran Krasić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antimović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zalić, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezović, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Miladović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borislav Pijeljić, Miljeljić, Mila Radić, Gojko Radić Radić, Mijko Radić, Mičko Radić, Mić, Mić, Mićo Rojić and Vštović, Vštović, Ivan Žović, Ivan Žović, Ivan Žović, Žović. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs that representatives for the search are authorised in principle, and in particular: MP Djuro Peric (Special Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia), MP Zoran Shami (Satan Group of Democratic Party of Serbia) and MP Aleksandar Martinovic (Satan Group of the Serbian Radical Party). On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee dismissed Zlata Djeric as an incomplete amendment of the People's MP to Article 62, and as an untimely amendment of MP Zoran Antic to Article 78. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment does not only have the task of correcting the bill's proposal, but also of changing one practice that has been in force since the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament. I asked, on behalf of the SRS, that, in this draft law, in the first indent of the basic provisions, a position which would determine the course of the session, as well as the maintenance of the session, should be entered into Article 1. I believe that the determination of the course of the session and the order of the sitting would all MPs be in the same and equal position and that there would be no discrimination by the chair of certain parliamentary groups. The essence of this has also shown previous practice. During the previous period, we all had opportunities to see how the breach of the Rules of Procedure is justified, in which way there is advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and, ultimately, what is the outcome of this injury, i.e. that, in the day of voting, MPs always, even by obligation, plead against the breach of the Rules of Procedure, even though it was made. In order not to be the chairman of the committee to determine whether or not the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done, I asked that the course of the session and the maintenance of the session be incorporated into this law. The law simply must be respected by all MPs; the Rules of Procedure remain defined only for those to whom it is strictly applied and for those who, on the matter, are in a order of priorities in a way approved not to do any kind of damage to the Rules of Procedure or to be advertised by it. Essentially, I think that defining the course of the session and maintaining order at the session of the law is far stronger institutions than we would have done through the Rules of Procedure, and that the Rules of Procedure itself should only be a regulated definition of this amendment. That's the meaning of this amendment. I think that this amendment will all come in handy, especially since this position may be in the position of the opposition tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35257	The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35258	I would like to say on behalf of the promoter that the following amendments have been accepted: to Article 8 of the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic; to Article 9 of the amendment submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinović; to Article 16 of the amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; to Article 19 of the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Mićic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojrević and Kenan Hajdarevic; to a member of the 19th Amendment submitted by the National MPs Milisav Petronijevic. The 19th amendment was submitted by LDP MPs, MP Milisav Petronijevic, the Justice Committee. Since the text of the amendment is identical, amendments to those who have submitted this amendment have been accepted. The amendment tabled by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovan Radovanovic was adopted on the 27th amendment submitted by MP Sreto Peric; on the 41st amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; on the 42nd amendment submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, etc., MP group Advanced Serbia; on the 55th amendment submitted by MP Mirko Munjic; on the 56th amendment submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, as well as the amendments submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration to Article 55 and to Article 60. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35259	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed that Article 2 be reformed so that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is defined as the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and as the holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution, however, states that the National Assembly is the most representative body. We explained in the principle debate that the Constitution is not only a legal but also a political document and that its terminology is not always purely legal and not used in the logic of classical nomotechnics, unlike the law, which is exclusively a general legal act and should use legal terminology. So, the National Assembly is the only place, the only state body in the Republic of Serbia where all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are represented. In this purely legal sense, the National Assembly is neither the highest nor the lowest representative body of all Serbian citizens, but is the only representative body. We believe that Article 2 was meant to stand. Otherwise, it is also shown from the report of the Legislative Committee that our formulation is essentially not against the constitution, as Mrs Nada Kolundžija argued in the principle debate. The Legislative Committee has confirmed that the formulation we have given is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so we believe that the ruling coalition of amendments should also accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35261	The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35262	So, the fact is that one of the provisions provided for by the Constitution is that the National Assembly is the most representative body. It's not political terminology, it's about essence. There are other levels of citizen representation, and in this sense the National Assembly is the most representative body. We don't see any sense of such an amendment. So we don't understand at all why changing the Constitution's provisions would make more sense than the fact that the Constitution is applied literally. That's why this amendment was unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35263	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know it's not simple from an ideological system created by Joseph Broz and Edward Cardellj to immediately understand the essence of parliamentaryism. I believe Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a problem with that. So, Mrs. Kolundzija, the National Assembly is the only representative body where all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are represented. Only citizens of Belgrade are represented in the Belgrade City Assembly, only citizens living in the territory and autonomous province are represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia alone. In that sense, the National Assembly is neither the lowest nor the lowest, but the only representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35265	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35266	The only thing I can be worried about is the fact that you teach law to students. So this is really to imagine, but it may not be strange because you obviously taught lessons about parliamentaryism and democracy from your leader, from his books. I believe that what science is in the area of democracy and parliamentaryism and the contribution the world has made in that area has not given much attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35267	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35268	Unlike some of your Europeans and the big Democrats who studied the political alphabet at the political school in Kumrovec, I, Mrs Kolundzija, will show you from which book I learned what parliamentaryism is. This is the book of Slobodan Jovanovic "About the State - the foundation of a legal theory", and I assure you that Slobodan Jovanovic was neither a member of the SKJ nor a member of your party school in Kumrovec.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35269	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35270	If you prove to me that that book says anywhere that the Assembly is the only representative body, then I'll agree with you, but you can't prove it because it's simply not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35271	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35272	Mrs. Comic, is this a replica? I'm reporting for a replica because Mrs. Kolundji was misreading me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35273	No, there's no reason for a replica, I'm closely monitoring the presentations of all the MPs. You get your word on the fact that the parliamentary group has the right to use its time during the search of details.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35274	Thank you, please, just get the time back. Mrs. Kolundjia, there's only one detail you're letting out of your sight. The National Assembly is the only parliament in Serbia, the only assembly where all citizens are represented in one place. That's the point. So people living in Belgrade are represented in the Belgrade City Assembly, in the Vojvodina Assembly of people living in Vojvodina, but Serbia's parliament is the only assembly where all citizens are represented. You do not have any other parliament in Serbia, local or province, where all citizens are represented. In this regard, the National Assembly is the only representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35275	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35276	So you came to what I say – that there are other representative bodies. That's the first one. Secondly, you do not change the word “only” with your amendment, so you are asking to delete “one” or to add “one”. This is about grading, you're asking to delete "most". That's what this is about, and that's the problem. So, by your amendment, you are asking to delete that the National Assembly is the most representative body, which, of course, you cannot dispute if you take into account and consider the fact that there are other representative bodies, which are lower.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35277	The word has a National MP, Vlatko Ratkovic, and a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35278	So, Article 98. The constitution regulates the position of the National Assembly and defines the National Assembly as the most representative body and holder of constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 has just been established with this constitutional norm. As for the finding of counterpart Martinovic that the Legislative Committee has assessed that his amendment is legally possible, it is legally possible. So this formula that you said can also stand, but the rule is that constitutional norms are not interpreted, at least when it comes to the most important institutions and definitions. This is one of the reasons why the solution given in the bill is more comprehensive, both materially and in terms of the formulation itself. So the National Assembly is the most representative body because the Constitution defines it, and we can also now discuss the objective interpretation of this norm and the language. She's the tallest, because she's just the bearer of legislative and constitutional authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35279	One minute and eight seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35280	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here is the Bill on the National Assembly – the head of the DS parliamentary group and the chairman of the DS Legislative Committee say two different things. Apparently, our amendment should not be accepted because it does not comply with the Constitution, and the Legislative Committee says it is in accordance with the Constitution. Mrs. Kolundjia, you don't have to be a great lawyer, it's enough to have an elementary logic. If the National Assembly is the highest, then there must be some of the lowest representative bodies. But it doesn't exist. So, one is the only representative body represented by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia – that is this parliament. Other representative bodies where all Serbian citizens are represented are missing. In this regard, there are neither the highest nor the lowest, but the National Assembly is the only representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Looks like I'm going to have to take one of Cardell's brochures to the next session, 'cause this literature doesn't seem to be very good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35281	It was used a minute from the MP's group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35282	Mrs. Komic, I think you need to get involved in this debate. Here's why, I'd like to ask the public to pay attention. I fully agree with Mr. Ratkovic. He said Article 2 contains a formulation prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should not be changed, those provisions should not be changed. Explain to me, Mr. Ratkovic, why he's a member of 37. Proposal for a law under the formulation amended the text of Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Explain that to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35283	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35284	I think I've made myself perfectly clear and you can see it from the stenographic notes. I said it was a rule that constitutional norms should not be interpreted when it comes to basic institutes, and this is about the definition of the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as contained in Article 98. The Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35285	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3, to which the SRS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment, reads: "The National Assembly represents the President of the National Assembly." With the amendment, we propose that the member be changed and read, "The National Assembly is exclusively represented by the President of the National Assembly." What did we do this for? We wanted to prevent possible abuses that the president of the National Assembly for who knows what reasons, in what circumstances the authority of someone else, some vice president, a secretary or someone else, represents the National Assembly. Apparently, this amendment is too much. If we were living in a legal state, if the laws were respected in this assembly, if the Rules of Procedure were respected, this amendment would be absurd, even ridiculous. However, practice in the work of this Parliament teaches us that this amendment is necessary. This is why, I would like to give an example: imagine that someone two years ago suggested that only political groups and political parties participating in the elections could be introduced into the Constitution, the Law on the Selection of MPs and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Any normal and well-intentioned would say that this is excessive, that this is something that is meant, because under the Constitution, under the Law on the Selection of MPs and by the Rules of Procedure, parliamentary mandates belong to individuals, political groups and political parties who participated in the elections. So that's something that looks perfectly normal and perfectly fine. But in reality, we have a completely different situation here – we have MPs and a parliamentary group of parties who have not participated in the elections at all! And, we have another miracle unseen: we have in parliament MPs and a parliamentary group of parties that did not exist at all at the time of the parliamentary elections. For these reasons, and in order to prevent it, I really think it is necessary to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35287	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35288	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. We have tabled an amendment to Article 8, which reads: “The National Assembly makes the law, the budget, the final account, the development plan, the spatial plan, the Rules of Procedure, the strategy, the declaration, the resolution, the recommendation, the decision, the conclusion and the authentic interpretation of the law. ” Since this is the proposal for a Law on the National Assembly, this definition in Article 8 looks like the material he is working with, which serves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, our view was that this had to be more precise, to pay attention to certain rules of the Serbian language, so that we proposed that Article 8(1) be amended and read as follows: "The National Assembly adopts general and individual legal acts", and then we list them, "The Constitution, law, rules of procedure, decision, conclusion and authentic interpretation of laws, development plans and plans, development plan, spatial plan, as well as political acts, strategy, declaration, resolution and recommendation". We think that this way, citizens would be more clear about what this is all about. We also note that those who participated in writing this bill do not pay attention to the basic rules of Serbian language again. That's also seen in Article 1, where you use a lot of pleonases. Among other things, you use the word "symbol" and the word "emblem", which are really identical, because the Greek word "emblem" precisely means what the word used in Serbian means – a symbol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35289	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The amendment was adopted by the proposing representative. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35290	If they've accepted, I won't, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35291	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35292	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is certainly required to have a law on the National Assembly. We all agree on that. The draft Law on the National Assembly could be adopted by all MPs if the ruling majority would accept the amendment of the opposition, which is intended to correct this bill. To correct the bill, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted several amendments. One of the first amendments we have submitted concerns Article 9 of this Act. The amendment refers to the amendment in that Article 9, the change in the first position, and paragraphs 2 and 3 are to be deleted. Article 9 says: “In the work of the National Assembly there is a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, and a Latin letter according to the law. ” According to us, this article should read: “In the work of the National Assembly in official use is the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, and the Latin letter and the languages and letters of the national minorities according to the law. “ I don’t see why this is a problem or why it couldn’t be accepted. Namely, the proposed amendment to Article 1 of all the questions of official use of language and letter in the work of the National Assembly is clearly regulated in accordance with the Constitution and the law, so that additional provisions are unnecessary. Paragraphs 2 and 3 are not necessary; they do not need to exist in this law, nor in this article. Independent of the proposed text, when it comes to points 2 and 3, it is unclear because it states that an MP in the congregation can be used in his own language, which means that an MP can be used in any language he says is his language. The acceptance of the amendments we have submitted is precisely defined by which language can be used, i.e. to be used in Serbian language or language by members of national minorities in Serbia. I think that in this one sentence, by changing the first attitude, everything is said and it is not necessary to add the positions 2 and 3 to this law, to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35293	Forty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35294	The point is that we would not be content to accept that part of your amendment regarding the continuation of the sentence, where it stands – languages and letters of national minorities, but your amendment also contains a second position, which requires that attitudes 2 and 3 be deleted. We find this impossible because there are certain conditions that need to be provided before so that the principle and the right of the MP can be fulfilled in his own language. We felt it was necessary to inform in advance of this intention, in order to ensure technical and other conditions that this right could be realised. For this reason we could not accept your amendment, because it contains provisions to delete this member. We think it is really necessary that there is a previous intention, in order to allow conditions for the MP to speak in his own language, to deliver written acts in his own language, but that at the same time other MPs can follow what he says. You're the amendment that asked you to delete these provisions actually disabled that procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35295	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and Milos Aligrudic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35296	I could accept the proponent's explanation, but in this third position, whose erasure we are proposing, it bothers us that the MP must address the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. The MP is equal to the president of the National Assembly. His communication regarding his rights is not through the service of the National Assembly, but through the president of the National Assembly. If you had said here that the National Assembly is obliged, that the President of the National Assembly is obliged, we would have accepted that, but that in law you predict that the Secretary-General of the National Assembly is obliged to provide the MP with something, it is a disgrace to the MP. You could have also written – when the MP wants to be transported somewhere, the Secretary-General is obliged to provide him with transport. This is the level where the MP addresses the National Assembly. Its level is the Assembly, or one representing the National Assembly. When I ask you to speak in my own language and to translate what I have said in Serbian, I do not ask the Secretary General of the National Assembly. That's what I'm asking of the National Assembly, from the people of Serbia. This is a humiliation to the National Assembly, to the minority members and to the MP who would have such a request, that he write to the secretary general. That was our general remark. The secretary general has been raised to a level above the president of the National Assembly. All of it to the secretary general, so let him order the president of the National Assembly to provide it. Maybe someone's gonna provide a technical face. What kind of communication is this from the MP general of the National Assembly? What do we need? What is not written – if the Secretary-General is not there, address the Deputy Secretary-General? That's our remark, that you respect us a little bit. You'll never ask for it. You'll tell the president of the National Assembly and that's it, and we have to write. We don't want to write to the secretary general, we're writing to the president of the National Assembly, who's equal to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35297	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35298	There's not a single word to the MP here to speak to the secretary. Only the secretary is obliged to provide. I ask you to read what it says: “To a national MP who intends to serve in the work of the National Assembly in his own language, in the sense of the position of the 2nd member, constantly or in a particular case, the Secretary General is obliged to provide... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The MP shall not be referred to the Secretary-General for that right. It's simple, you're wrong, but the fact is that technical conditions must be provided by the Secretary General. If you had intervened in the sense that you had changed this attitude so that the MP addressed the President of the National Assembly to ensure this, we would have accepted the amendment. Since you're looking to erase these two attitudes, we just couldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35299	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic has the word, and the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35300	From the time of the group. Something about the amendment and the explanations: imagine that we have a national MP whose native language is Swedish, because he was born in Sweden and his mother is a citizen of that state, who later received Serbian citizenship, became a Serbian citizen, joined politics and became a full-fledged MP throughout his life. If we leave the formulation as it is your proposal, and let's say we don't accept the SNS amendment, then it would appear to you that this MP can be dead 'cold to speak in Swedish here in the Serbian parliament and that, as you say, the secretary is obliged to create conditions for it and to provide it. It's not what it says in the Serbian Constitution. We can't make up things here that aren't foreseen by the Constitution of this country. It's nowhere to be found. So when you get an amendment that makes some sense, reason, try to think about what the point is, because it's not only done to help you, but there are often some serious reasons when someone writes something. Then you should accept that. Namely, the DSS Group has not submitted any amendments to this text that you predicted, not because we think it's good, but because we don't like it at all. That's our attitude. We do not blame other groups and MPs who have accepted the work of writing amendments. Everyone has the right to express their views on what lies ahead. We wanted to make it clear that in one business, which you yourself have done, with false calls for consultation to be done together, and then here you have brought it out as something that you will vote on for a thin majority of the other MPs in parliament, we do not want to participate in such a way; neither in false consultations nor to create an illusion, it is, again, our position, by making amendments and by trying to change that text (which you will finally vote in that thin majority), that this house has been working in a very warm way on it. That's just not true. The DSS MPs will continue to be involved in the debate on this issue, in the debate in particular, in order to talk about some concrete things that are related to the text, and that others who think alike would contribute, because the text that lies ahead does not actually contribute to dignity, nor is it in favour of the National Assembly and citizens, but is decided precisely, to our great regret, as the mockery of this home and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35301	The time spent by the president of the parliamentary group is three minutes and twenty seconds. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Please, People's Parliament, I apologize, if you could just sign up one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35302	If you accept that Article 9 remains in this text that you have proposed, the question arises whether you have denied the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia to members of the national minorities? If you point out that we can use the latin letter in accordance with the law, why did you not direct us to use the language and letter of the national minorities in accordance with the law? If you were forced to insert a letter of Latin use according to the law, that same reason was to insert the language and letter of the national minorities, because in the Republic of Serbia it is in the use of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. If I were a member of a national minority, I would feel threatened by you, because you are forcing me, because you approve me with that first Latin letter in accordance with the law, and then you refer me to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which the Secretary-General will determine how I will use my right to use myself orally or in writing by my own language and letter. Do not discriminate against the letter of national minorities. If you put in a latin letter, you also had to insert a letter from the national minorities. At least here you have, in your parliamentary group or in your ruling coalition, members of people who are minority in Serbia and who have their own language and their own letter. Therefore, if you wanted to do something right, you should not have prescribed the general provisions of the Constitution, but rather worked them out in relation to the environment in which we are here. Otherwise, you know that minority members here don't use their rights, and they can use it and should be allowed whenever they want. As far as we're concerned, you haven't been able to fix anything, you haven't allowed anything to be fixed, and you've had the right to propose an amendment as a legislator for you to cast out the role of the Secretary General and put in the President of the Assembly, because you're saying that the amendment would then be acceptable. I'm sorry you don't look back on that. It seems, indeed, that after the conflict with a party of a national minority, you have decided to act rigorously towards minority members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35303	Since the time of the parliamentary group president, two minutes and thirty seconds have been used. The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35304	Just don't talk about who the national minority is dealing with, so we don't have to remind you of what you referred to other national minorities during another period, when you weren't such a big European. Now I want to say something else. I repeat, we would accept this amendment in its first part if there were no second part, which would delete the provisions of Article 2, because of the fact that there must be a procedure in which it is technically possible to achieve this right. That's the only reason we're not. If you wanted to speak now about not liking this other part for some reason that you feel that the MP is referring to the secretary, then you had to define an amendment that would remove this ambiguity, but would not abolish the whole position, which is necessary in a technical sense to make it possible for us to commit the relevant congregation services to allow the exercise of this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35305	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35306	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kolundzija was severely injured by a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly who spoke of the private life of others. You can't talk here... Or at least when you're talking, don't accuse me of serious, even criminal acts in general. Say it freely and openly when I've done anything you don't want to do. Don't leave insinuations here unsaid. Item 3, which we're asking to delete, is the subject of the Rules of Procedure, not the law. That's why I'm reminding you that the technical work the Secretary-General is doing doesn't get you into the law, because he's doing hundreds of other jobs that you didn't get into the law. Among them are the use of an official car, and we know how to use official cars available to the National Assembly. Maybe it should have been sooner than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35307	People's MP, you're entitled to a replica. It is your will to seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 27, I felt that your right to replica could be explained between the two MPs, the attitudes expressed in yours and in the presentation of Hope Kolundgia's folk letter. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35308	Mr. Nikolic, if you think your political past is something you would hide in your personal life, then it's your personal relationship with it, I just have to tell you that what you publicly represented in your political past is part of your political biography today. It's not part of a private life, I would never dare deal with any question of any private life of any man. But what you stood for, especially when it comes to relations with some other members of national minorities, it is not private life and I do not in any way harm the Rules of Procedure if I remind all of us here in the O.R., and first of all you, that you do not forget about it and at least now you fence yourself publicly from these views. That would be a minimum to show that you've really changed your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35309	The right to replica is won by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35310	Since I have constant contacts with representatives of national minorities, and even with people their people choose in their countries of origin, and since I haven't noticed that they resent anything from my past, please, Mrs. Kolundjia, to tell me what you resent about minorities, so that I can answer you? Indeed, there is no sense in it, and it is like a private investigation if you tell me – you know what you were doing and what you were saying. Yes, I know what I've been doing and what I've been saying, but for the sake of what you know about me is no shame at all, nor has there ever been an act that is subject to prosecution as a crime, as you now accuse me of doing something that may be immoral or punishable by law, please tell me what it was, what it was in these twenty years, how much you've been following my political life, what you're worshiping me today with this senseless sentence of yours - give up what you've been doing. I do not give up my life, nor force you to give up yours. So everyone has their own life, each carrying their own cross, each solving their own tasks and their own problems as he thought. I led the best game in Serbia, and today I run the best game in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35311	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The amendment was adopted by the proposing representative. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35312	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am pleased that there is political wisdom and that this amendment has been adopted. That's enough, though, of the law failures, but I have to say that I had one here, too, I guess, for a short period of time... I haven't had, however, those two years that you've had available to write the law and if I had the opportunity to resubmit the amendment at this point, I think I'd cover another situation that needs to be taken into account. I think we had to define more precisely which languages could appear in this congregation tomorrow. If we take into account the specific problems that exist in some municipalities in Serbia, then you must make sure that certain parliamentary groups or political parties can stand behind some fictional languages, languages that are not standardised, and for their own political benefit, claim that there is one or that language. The Serbian language standardisation society strongly resists this. I think it is high time, finally, that both the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly, which in due time brought a certain declaration for the protection of Serbian language, and, with concrete measures, stood in the defence of Serbian language and prevented the abduction of Serbian language. I shall give a concrete example, which exists in the municipality of Prepolje. It's one of the first municipalities in which we've had elections since the formation of SNS. Instead of fulfilling numerous promises made to citizens, one of the first things they introduced as a newspaper was the change of the Statute and the inclusion of Bosnian language as an official language in the municipality of Prepolje. Bosnian doesn't exist. It's not a language that's standardised. If some claim to be, let's see when that language came up, which grammatical rules exist in that language. Let's see a dictionary, let's see an authorized translator from Bosnian to Serbian, a court interpreter. What is even more important is that in the use of Serbian and Cyrillic scripts and Bosnian and Latin letters. If the Bosnian language already exists, then you will admit, there must also be a Bosnian letter. The Latin letter is not a Bosnian letter and no one can say with one political act and kidnap a Latin letter from the Serbian people, which is a Serbian letter as much as Cyrillic. We are precisely because of such bad formulations and incomplete formulations in danger of someone coming out tomorrow in the Assembly and saying, "Here, I want to speak Bosnian." Let's see where you are, and there is no authorised interpreter for Bosnian, let's see how the Assembly will provide an appropriate translation, because it is understood, if someone wishes to speak Albanian, that you will probably bring in an authorised translator for Albanian language. What if someone says tomorrow that they will speak in Martian, which is probably just as real as Bosnian? Will you be looking for an authorised interpreter or a court interpreter for the Martian language? This is a very serious question. This is not a daily policy issue, as some understood it by introducing Bosnian language into the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I think you should think about it. You, by the way, have the opportunity, as a proposing, to suspend the work after the adoption of this previous amendment, to meet again the Committee, to limit, in some ways, which the languages may tomorrow be in official use in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35313	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35314	Dear colleagues, I do not think that the matter of this law should really be that it deals with the determination of language and letters that are officially used in the Republic of Serbia. There's a law for that. All institutions, including this congregation, are obliged to comply with the law. So there is no need for us to now deal with definition and differentiation in relation to what someone estimates to be a language or not a language and what language it should not be, and whether any foreign language of a country could be used in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia applies a law defining which languages are in official use, as well as letters.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35315	National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandra Jankovic, Milos Aligrudic and Nemanja Sarovic have been reported and will be given the floor in that order. The People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35316	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, of course, that this law should not be dealt with in this matter, even less this assembly is a place where someone who is obviously not linguist and is not educated in this sense gives their opinion on what is language and what is not. No one resents you for not being a linguist. What someone can blame you for is that you engage here in some quasilingvist debates, which simply aren't based on any standards that exist in general linguistics. Namely, there are several ways to define what language is, and what is not, and national blindness, which is obviously one of the strongest criteria for you, is none of these standards. In order to define something as a language, it cannot be defined by the Serbian Standardisation Committee, which you expect to assess whether it is a Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin language - a standard language. It is not appropriate for the Serbian Standardisation Committee to assess. What defines something as language, when it comes to linguistic criteria, are grammar, dictionary, and spelling of that language. What may be interesting to hear is that on the basis of these criteria, the Serbian language could only last year be classified into a group of languages that can be recognized, because only last year a one-to-one Serbian dictionary came out, while all the other languages that you disputed had long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35317	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35318	Mrs. Comic, I'd like to ask you to respond to these discussions in the future. Miss Jerkov insulted me in a very rude way. I was talking about the best I could do, I was talking about the law alone, I haven't spoken to her in a single word. She – you may have missed it, I hope that if you do not believe me, you will look at the stenogram – talk about some of my national blindness. Mrs. Komic, I'm not nationally blinded, I guess that's clear, unless she has some evidence of a different condition. The second injury you've been obliged to detect and warn Mrs. Jerkov is that she's giving lessons here that she can talk about. Mrs. Comic, I am a folk MP, as well as two hundred more people in this room, 227, 228. Every MP is a representative of the citizens. The people gave us the right to speak in the name of that people. Serbian citizens have different educations. I'm a lawyer, Mrs. Jerkov isn't, but to me, since I'm tolerated, unlike her, it didn't occur to me to say that she can't talk about the laws because she's not a lawyer. Also, Mrs. Jerkov can't say that I can't speak language, considering I'm not a linguist in education. No education is required to know whether a language exists or does not exist. I guess that's something that's undeniable. I would like to invite Miss Jerkov to say, if she is already an expert on the Bosnian language and if she already wants so badly in Europe, in which there is a Bosnian language department in the European country. It would be good to list a prominent author in Bosnian. I'm sure she's read a handful of those books. What might be the greatest contribution to her previous exposure... (President: Two minutes. I'm finishing...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35319	Thank you. People's MP, you're under the obligation that when you get a word, asking her to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, saying which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, which you haven't done, so I ask you to do so in the future, if you notice that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, do so. Please don't throw away, I'm giving you instructions on how you can... People's MPs who earn that MP Nemanja Sarovic does not need instructions outside the hall to instruct him to be obliged to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. In her presentation, National MP Aleksandra Jerkov did not say any of what you repeated in an attempt to explain that the Rules of Procedure had been injured. I ask you all to listen carefully to each other during the debate. The MP said, and you can see it with insight into the stenogram, that there should be no quasilingvist discussions, and she said she doesn't resent anyone who isn't linguist and wants to conduct such discussions. I ask you, in an attempt to make an argument, to first respect the Rules of Procedure which are before you, and secondly, to listen carefully to what your colleague or colleague is saying so that you may have the basis for saying that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35320	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. You're really very kind. I would also like to thank Mrs. Slavica Djukic for this Rules of Procedure she gave me. Although, I admit I'm not as expert as you are, but this time I've reported in accordance with Article 27. I confess, Mrs. Comic, I greatly appreciate your discussion. I believe in your well-meaning. I know you believe in mine, too. What I heard was all of Serbia, so I would ask you to direct me in such a way that I could get a short notice, or I would ask you, since you are still vice president of the National Assembly, to ask that we get the stenographic notes of what Miss Jerkov said at the moment. You'll see that she said that I'm nationally blinded, that's something that's undeniable; as she said undisputedly that I, given that I'm not a linguist in education, should not be discussing these issues. Thank you very much, Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35321	There's no violation of article 27, MP. The insight into the stenogram can be achieved by default procedure. Please contact the secretary of your parliamentary group to request a stenogram copy and you will receive it within the time limit otherwise. The People's Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, and neither did I as chairman of the notice that you... Members of the Parliament, I urge you to read carefully the Rules of Procedure which define the conditions under which you can speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to abuse the right that this member has been given to us all, so that we do not have to, although I am at your disposal, use the unpleasant members of the Rules of Procedure, which no one loves. Anyone else want a word in the discussion about the particulars search? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, Miss Alexandra Jerkov made a lie that offends me personally, like a man whose native language is Serbian. So, Miss Jerkov, it is not true that a Serbian dictionary has recently been published. Let me remind you, in 1818, the first edition of Vuk’s “Rječnik” was released in 1852. A few decades ago, the Serbian Matica published a multi-thousand Serbian dictionary. I also don't understand how you became an expert in linguistics overnight when, as far as I know, you're a master of European science. However, I don't know where this science is being studied, but in Serbia, it has acquired the right to citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35323	National MP Zoran Krasic adds: "Responsibles", thinking I would not know. National MP Aleksandra Martinović, please do not deceive the public. The dictionary you are talking about is the consequence of the Vienna Agreement and the agreement between then-serb and Croatian linguists and it is about the Serbian Croatian language. National MP Nemanja Sarovic and you spoke about language standardisation. The information that, unfortunately for our joint spelling, the dictionary came out only last year is correct. The Serbian language standardisation committee of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts has not completed its work as quickly as we would expect from the board. (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic throws out of place. ) Please wait for an explanation, as you claim that a injured Rules of Procedure has been issued in the presentation of a national letter which said that only last year a Serbian dictionary was issued. That information is correct, so I ask you not to mislead the public by saying that it is false and that the Serbian language, which you are calling upon, is published in the 19th century. It's two completely different scientific works. I think it is in everyone's interest to deal with the facts and not abuse our common heritage, such as Vuk's "The Dictionary", or the information that is available to everyone, both the MPs and the public. National MP Aleksandra Martinovic, do you want to make a statement on the injury in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So the Vienna deal was concluded in 1850, and the first edition of Vuk's "Serbian Dictionary", it was called, was written in 1818. We had a dictionary or a dictionary of Serbian language long ago that you and Miss Alexandra Jerkov quoted. By the way, the Croatian language, which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia speak today, is actually a Serbian language. Read little Vuk Karadzic, so you will read what is the original Croatian language – Čavski. And if all the storks were Serbs, it was also written by Vuk Karadzic in the book "Kovčezic for History, Language and Customs of the Serbs all three laws", printed in Vienna in 1849, again before your Vienna deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35325	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The proof that there is no injury is the language that you and I speak, and the language that you and I speak today, most of the words of that language, unfortunately for me, will not be found in the 19th century Wolf’s “dictionary ” of which you speak, as we will not find in another literary heritage. The thing was very precise, it was about language standardisation today and here. I ask you to circle this round of explanations as to whether the MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, stated last year that a dictionary of Serbian language was published, and it did, led the public astray, or not. She didn't lead the public astray, that's true, and I repeat, I'm sorry that the Standardisation Committee hasn't done the job before. I believe we share regrets here. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35326	It is a violation of Article 27, but at the same time with regard to infringements of Articles 93 to 112. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35327	National MPs, members 93 - 112 cannot be harmed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35328	Article 100, article 95, member...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35329	National MP, members from 93 to 112 cannot be injured during the session. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35330	If I say that article 27 is insulting, because it is a general provision that speaks of the position and role of the chairman, which I wanted to draw your attention to, if you are a democracy and if we live in a democratic state, you will allow me to tell you something – I think you are wrong about something. I told you there are certain provisions that give you certain obligations here, such as Article 95, when you give someone a word, when you do what you do during the session. How can you not hurt that? You can hurt those provisions. I'm distracting you to insult them. You insult them that way... I don't want to get into whether there's supposed to be a linguistic debate here or not, people's home, so it can be any kind of home, but what's certainly not your role, it's not your role to engage in any debate, inappropriate, using the position of the chairman, whether it's a linguistic debate or another. Mrs. Komic, ask someone from the vice president, in agreement with the President of the Assembly, to take the chair seat, and you sign up for a word, sit in that other place and answer the word that you are taking part in the debate on the bill, whether it is linguistic or otherwise. What you just did, I'm not talking about the MPs, not one or the other, this is a kind of tyranny and tyranny that cannot be tolerated here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35331	People's MP, I direct you to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a member who defines the right to receive words to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the duties and obligations of the chairman to give an explanation. I ask you not to direct the People's Messengers, nor any chairman, that it is good for the chairman to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not act according to the position of the Rules of Procedure which obliges him to give explanations. Does anyone else want a word in the debate on the amendment to Article 9? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35332	For the sake of truth, I will use 30 seconds of time of the SRS Parliamentary Group, Ms. Jerkov, "The Serbian-language Legal Dictionary" (this was last year when we discussed the roof law on culture), which Mr. Milan Šipka writes, in the issue of "Promethea", will only appear during this month. His release is late because of the fact mentioned earlier here, which is that the national council for the standardisation of Serbian language does not work, although it was elected several years ago. That's what you've been waiting for for for over 15 years. "Serbian language law" was published long ago in 1993. In the context of what you, Mrs. Komic, have said, although I see that there is no opportunity or will for it, Mr. Martinovic, colleague Sarovic and each of us Serbian radicals could react to your incursion by explaining to you, as part of the scientific occupation of our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, how the Croats stole the Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35333	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35334	I'll get the amendment. So it's not a problem here that someone can use their own language, according to the Constitution and the law, in the National Assembly. The problem is that he can't write in the text of the bill some formulation that in itself means nothing. The wording "their own language", compared to the previous definition – in official use is the Serbian language, Cyrillic letter and Latin letter in accordance with the law, and then later there are provisions that say that all MPs, who have a need, can serve in their own language – are simply not enough. It is not a matter that can be so simple, in line with what Mr. Ratkovic was saying when it comes to strong and general, very important norms of the Constitution, just running over. So there must be a definition to the end. We can use the Serbian language here, we can also use the languages of national minorities. There is no possibility, neither theoretically, in our constitutional and legal system of being used here by the MPs, except for some protocolal, solemn and other purposes, when we have guests and so on, some other language. This is not the text of the bill. The fact that a person cannot accept an amendment because of something that is too high in that amendment, etc., and part of that amendment is allegedly acceptable and reasonable, is not an excuse for the ruling majority (who did this on its own) not to remember that at least something that is meaningless has changed, if she has already remembered that at the last moment she has submitted an amendment that this law enters into force one day after the publication in the “Official Messenger”. That amendment was given precisely to get to next week to see all the benefits and the only effects of this law that can be seen in public, which are some sort of guard and other things. So if it's a mechanism, if it's a way of working, okay, but let's read what people write, so if it's partly acceptable, then let that ruling majority try and plant some MP to write what was acceptable in some amendment, up to the time when it's possible to do so, or on the board of directors, then the thing should be right. This way there's no debate right, this way we don't have a product right. But this has been so since the beginning, and that is why I have stressed that the Democratic Party of Serbia's position towards all of this has been so distinct, precisely because there is no debate in the essence of what should be a common matter in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35335	They were used three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group president. In accordance with Article 27, I will remind you that we are currently in the process of searching in particular, and on the amendment to Article 9 submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, who accepted the proposal's representative. The amendment reads: “When a National MP in the work of the National Assembly is used in his own language in terms of the position of the 2nd member, constantly or in a particular case, the Secretary General of the National Assembly is required to ensure the simultaneous translation of his or her oral presentation or document into Serbian. “ This amendment was accepted, just to remind myself, given that there were replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, explanations. Does anyone else want a word in the discussion in detail about this accepted amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35336	Since a lot of claims have been made here that don't stand, even because someone is or isn't a linguist, I am a linguist, I'm a professor of Serbian language and literature, and I have to say one thing. The Serbian language began its standardisation even during Sava Mrkalj, before Vuk Karadzic, and Vuk Karadzic finished the job. Please, don't be false. The first "Serbian Dictionary", issued in 1818 (or else a child who does not know that date in the eighth grade cannot get a transitional grade from the Serbian language), was translated into three languages – Serbian, German and Latin, contained both grammar and Serbian spelling. And later on, what you're talking about so casually and unprofessionally, about last year and everything else, all the later editions of spelling are perfecting the language, which is alive and which, of course, according to the development of society and one nation, is changing, living. Some words die; of course the Wolf's words are not here, but there are other words that have arisen. We know how words come out. For the Bible says: “At first there was a word. ” The language is a man's first country, and we can't let you insult us by saying that the spelling of Serbian language and dictionary was established last year. I've been teaching it for 25 years at school, and 45 years I've been taught that spelling, which you claim didn't exist until last year. Here you are, in your basic basic school textbooks, every one of you is talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35337	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35338	Thank you, Mrs Đeric, for having managed to prove to the joint forces that I was right after all, but I would have to tell Mrs. Komic that, regardless of the fact that this amendment has been accepted, I have the legal and legitimate right to enter into an explanation, if nothing, because in a year, two or three, when there is a problem that I now point out, the Assembly may be able to give authentic interpretation, and then it will be very important what I am as the applicant of the amendment really wanted to achieve this amendment. What might be more important, I didn't get to say, first of all, to Mrs. Kolundji, she can't say that one or that law cannot contain such provisions because the use of language is regulated by law. That is true, but many other things have been regulated by both the Constitution and other laws, so you are introducing provisions here such as the provision of Article 47, which is completely unnecessary. What I've pointed to is practice, and practice is, you'll admit, often more important than law. In the constitutional-legal order of the Republic of Serbia, there is the Statute of the Municipality of Prepolje, which states that the official language is Serbian and Cyrillic, i.e. the official language, and that the second language is in the official use of the Bosnian language and the Latin letter. It is good to see now that there are only two parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who support such an attitude, another similarity between LSV and SNS, but we have not heard any translators from the Bosnian language yet. They failed to find him even in the municipality of Prepolje, where such an act was entered into the statutes, and I suppose you will find him hard, Mrs Comic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35339	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35340	I have already been afraid, Mrs. Komic, that I am invisible, because by looking at the stenographic notes you will find that before the presentation of Ms. Master's Master of European Sciences, Aleksandra Jerkov said that the amendment to Mr. Sarovic was discussed with Mr. Sarovic, Milos Aligrudić, Nemanja Sarovic, and that he would also get the opportunity to talk about the amendment, which was accepted. My second concern is, since I'm not a linguist but a psychologist, do I even have the right to participate in this discussion of language? But starting with the fact that psychologists are qualified to be presidents of the Republic, I think I can take this right, because I don't believe that you would challenge the president of your party's right to speak about atomic physics, if necessary. It is clear to me that Mr. Sarovic's amendment was accepted; it was not clear to Miss Master of European Sciences, which is no wonder, our education system did not pass. I'm not surprised that Miss Master's discussion of European sciences, because she and her party don't respect anything that Mr. Canak didn't do by hand, in principle "I did it my way". For them too, Noam Chomsky is some kind of third-rate linguist, but now it doesn't matter. The fact is that this Article 9 and the amendment, which, thank God, has been accepted, is about very important topics, and the theme of language is something that is practically about the survival of the nation. We have long claimed that the rights of the majority are threatened in Serbia and that if there is to be some kind of ministry, it is the ministry of the rights of the majority, because Serbs are becoming more vulnerable, become a national minority, so that practically no spoons, no tails, no scarfs, and neither the Serbian language nor the Cyrillic letter are anymore, as you would say, "in" and should be expelled from official use. Soon, perhaps, when we become a national minority, we will have the possibility that someone, under the authority of the secretary general, will translate us into Serbian, and especially to enroll us in Cyrillic. Since we are already discussing the Law on the Assembly, which is very important and concerns all of us, as a kind of warning, I will read the words of Stefan Nemanja, St. Simeon of Peace, spoken on the deathbed, written by his youngest son Rustko, St. Sava, as a sort of support for Mr. Sarovic's amendment and a recommendation that language and which letter should be used in the Serbian Parliament: "Beware, my child, language as a country. The word can be lost as the city, as the earth, as the soul, and what is the people if they lose their tongue, their earth, their soul? Don't take someone else's word in your mouth. If you take someone else's word, you know you didn't win it, but you made a difference. You'd better lose the biggest and strongest city than the smallest and most insignificant word of your tongue. Lands and states are conquered not only by swords, but also by languages. Know that the alien has won so much and conquered how many words he has stolen from you and made his own. A people who lose their words cease to be a people. “
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35341	Three minutes and fifty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Since an objection to the order of giving of words is made, when a MP, and under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, wants to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he gets the word immediately, through order and before others, if there are already announced Members of Parliaments, as well as an authorised representative of the Proposer, regardless of whether the Proposer is a Government, a group of MPs or on behalf of 30,000 voters. The People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35342	I would like to point out that the previous speaker, as well as Mr Martinovic, in one of her presentations, violated the position of Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure: “The People’s Messengers are obliged to address one another with respect. “ Without any desire to justify myself to any of my colleagues, nor to give an answer to Mr. Krasic’s rejection, but since it is not the first time in this assembly that my diploma is mentioned in a very ugly sense, it should be said that my diploma is nostrificed in our country (recognized at the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade) and that I have called the Master of Political Sciences. I believe that many in this room do not hold much to European integration, but that is the future of our country, which sooner or later you will have to get used to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35343	Fifty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone else want a word in the debate on the amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic, who has been accepted? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35344	The European orientation of this assembly is obvious, and in a modern, European-oriented assembly, the state, which respects the basic democratic principles and advocates – this is the Serbian word – "transparency" in the work of all important state bodies, it is necessary to clearly define the public's commitment to the work of this highest representative body. The formulation given in the current proposal, under which it is necessary to create conditions for television and internet transmissions, has rather a character of recommendation than a binding legal obligation to provide direct insight and oversight of the work of its representatives. If you remember, when we discussed the Law on Gender Equality, there was also a recommendation, not a legal obligation to respect the 30% quota. At that time, representatives of different parliamentary groups agreed and practically acted on the adoption of amendments on not being a recommendation, but a legal obligation. It would be nice to do so with this amendment, as direct television transmissions are one of the most important flows of multiparty activity in the Republic of Serbia, and to abolish them because of the inability to create conditions before they have the character of regression rather than progress, which makes Serbia as a modern European state tend to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35345	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35346	I'll use the MP's time. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, this is the 11th best part of the story about how we are as representatives of the legislative authority in the shadow of the executive government. Instead of being representatives of the working group, who worked on making this text of the law, we were empowered to say that direct television transmissions were obligations, they were winding up with some expressions, which I can read, they said "the public work of the Assembly is ensured by creating conditions for television and internet transmissions of the session of the National Assembly". So this isn't even about direct transmissions. This interpretation of this provision creates the impression that direct television broadcasts will never be. And before, in principle, I was saying that this law does not bring anything revolutionary about those rights and obligations that we, as MPs and at all as these highest, have the most important state institution, but it is a good basis for losing what we have so far. When I say that, I mean exactly the direct television transmissions, which we are definitely losing by this provision of Article 11. I must say that direct television transmissions came in 1992, if I am not mistaken, as a result of multilaterals, and as such represent an important democratic postulate, which, in this way, this text of the law, will finally be destroyed and suffocated. I think we're in a very difficult situation. We have not had the courage or the courage to preserve the dignity of this home and these most important state institutions, because we ourselves are to blame for the fact that television broadcasts won't be, and they won't be because we didn't have the courage to bring it into this bill. Because of this situation and because of the collapse of all the institutions in the state, we are now in a situation where the Public Service determines the order and schedule of the National Assembly sessions, first of all, if secondly, which we have the opportunity to see from the very text of the law, determines whether there will be a TV transmission at all. I think it is a sad situation which, unfortunately, does not contribute to the development of parliamentary democracy. All I can say is that it all fits into one general picture of the collapse of the most important state institutions in the country itself. The body that should represent, not only by its nature but also by its constitutional position, the most important body in the state, has become a blind executioner of a warrant and thus loses all that it has had of its present integrity. I think it's sad, because we ourselves, as representatives of the people, whether it's the government or the opposition, are in some way depriving ourselves of the right that we have so far. I think this amendment, Mrs. Jankovic, must be accepted if we want to preserve the minimum of dignity of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35347	Three minutes and twenty-five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35348	On the grounds of Article 11, I think that the evaluations of this law are fully confirmed – instead of raising the reputation of the Assembly, wherever we could have done it properly, we did not do it. I would call this law, which we ourselves have done, and we've been doing it for two years, a cuneiform. Just to explain what a cuneiform is: it's when you make a soup without meat, just flour and spray. So wherever our ability could have been demonstrated, above all, the legislative capacity... You know that we don't just have to wait for the government to pass the laws, but that we can write the laws ourselves and solve key problems. Let's say we passed a law on the return of property to municipalities. By writing a law like this, we showed that we were unable to write serious laws, because when we passed this, it was seen that this law was not necessary at all. For what we thought we needed, when we did the Rules of Procedure, they said – it will be in this law. Now that we have this law, it won't be there, it'll be in the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm going to concentrate on this article that proves that surface and that grease with the spray, and without any meat and no contents. Look, we have proposed a very justified amendment, which has not been adopted. In view of the public’s insight into what the Assembly is doing, Article 11 states: “In one place insight into the stenographic notes and the minutes of the National Assembly. ” Instead, we have suggested that it states: “it allows access to information owned by the National Assembly, in accordance with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. ” I think this is a more modern way, so that's more complete information. I could name a whole list of what could be on our Internet, or even a debate from this session. However, this was not taken into account, but the rest of this examination of the documentation was taken into account. They have to go through Rodoljub Šabić, or threaten Rodoljub Šabić, and then deliver that information to them, and we were able to comply in advance with this law and enable the public to see without any difficulties. The second thing we have put as an amendment remark is the exclusion of the public, so it is possible to exclude the public from certain sessions. Instead, we gave a much better formulation, we suggested that it be a temporary restriction to the public. Why is this important? This is important because this first formulation can mean not only that television transmission cannot be watched, but that access and documents from such a session can be disabled, which would affect the regulation which determines the secrecy of the data. So instead of saying "temporary restriction", here we use this old-time "public exclusion", where it is implied that there is some kind of secret, where we enter into this second law. Finally, it may seem to be a language remark, but it is not, but it is seen that neglect I am talking about: “The journalists accredited to follow the work of the National Assembly are enabled to monitor... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” "It is possible". So none of these useful remarks we made. Of course, I agree with the previous debate that television broadcasting is conditional here, which means that it can be said that there are no conditions to be lifted. What is essential, the public work of this assembly is not provided by Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35349	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Nada Kolundži, authorised representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35350	I just want to say, to the public, that by considering this amendment with my colleague, Judith Popovic, we have discussed that the first part of this amendment is fully acceptable. The only thing that is not acceptable is the position 2 in the same article – "temporarily limit the public". Because I have to tell you that there are laws, certain other laws of state-defined secrecy and special treatment in these cases. We cannot define or suspend the provisions of the laws that regulate it by this law, so we prayed that the amendments be corrected, in which the first position would remain. Of course it's not a problem attitude – it's "enabled", we thought it should also remain. So, we just prayed that this amendment should leave out this "temporary restriction on the public" and that amendment is acceptable for us. But since it wasn't done, precisely because of this temporary public restriction, we couldn't accept the entire amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35351	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35352	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submitted an amendment to Article 11. I think this is a classic example of violation of democratic principles, parliamentaryism and multilaterals, because the provision defining the public of work, which does not include direct television, is an absolute violation of the most important democratic principle, which is the public of the work of the most state institution. The way you wrote this, you wouldn't even write a first-year law school student. You say this: “The public work of the National Assembly is ensured by creating conditions for television and the Internet is transmitted by a session of the National Assembly... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” What does it mean to create conditions? Well, is there television transmissions or not, is the obligation of this institution and informational activity as such to inform about work in the most recent way, and that is television transmission? What does it mean to create conditions for television transmissions, what are the conditions? Financial conditions? Well, funds have been provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Media conditions? We know who implements media conditions, the media are present, whether it's the Second Public Service Programme or others. Call a tender and you'll see that there are opportunities, and other media operators will get involved here, give you cheaper transfers, and we'll achieve what's necessary, and that's the public of work. As you have written – by creating conditions we will provide the public with work – we will never. Legal formulation, normative formulation, as you have stated here, hides the real essence – avoiding public work. The way you do the session transfer, conveys the session in a rematch sense in three, four, five in the morning, does not contribute in any case to the public's work. It is surprising that in this way you show the world the democraticity of the Serbian parliament and that this legal formulation is in our legal regulations. How she will be interpreted by the very good director Alexander Tijanic, we know that. Replay, two and three o'clock. Who's watching? Is that how we do the public work? I'm sure we're not getting there. This is a mistake, make it right. I think it is appropriate that Serbian citizens who want to monitor the work of the most state institutions have a direct transmission, and what this country and this people through taxes and contributions to the budget deserve the right, adequate public work, direct television transmissions. By means of this legal formulation, you automatically delete direct television transmissions and influence the fact that we do not have adequate public work. You break the Constitution, you break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35353	One minute and twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35354	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until the Assembly has its own assembly channel, it provides conditions for TV transmissions. So there's no other formulation, which could be more accurate. The fact is that since 2000, since the parties that won the elections at that time have been looking after the public work of this assembly, the Assembly has had direct television broadcasts. So, 90% of what we do goes in direct transmission, and maybe less than 10% goes in delayed terms, which we have to consider, because the public service has some priorities. So, it simply doesn't stand to be a fact that in any way one law, for which we fought against you, tries to suspend. On the contrary, we want this law to oblige the Assembly to create conditions. At some point we might have a congregation channel, it won't have anything to do with RTS, and that way we'll solve this problem. What we wanted here to define by law is that the Assembly has an obligation to create conditions to have television broadcasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35355	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, so the MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35356	Dear Mrs. Kolundjia, I'd really like to believe that you have good intentions, but I think I can prove that's not the case. First of all, it is not true that 90% is going in direct transmission; and some extremely important sessions went in late, not even in the evening, but in the hours of the night. We are now discussing the law of the congregation; when we discussed it in principle, about one night a delayed recording began. Before that there was a basketball game, there was an art skating, there was a show that was recorded more than twenty years ago, in which literature works were read. You can't say that's a priority and you can't say that it's not an obligation of this home to commit public service to direct transfers. Therefore, public service is not an independent institution of citizens, public service exists for the sake of citizens. You can't say that it's more important to watch an art skating or a documentary show recorded 20 years ago, but to inform citizens of Serbia about what you say the most representative body in this country is doing. I don't know why you're only talking about the second channel of the Serbian Radio-Television, or the Second Programme; you had the First Program, you had the Third, so you shut it down because you didn't want to provide a possibility for continuous, uninterrupted television transmissions. That you do not have a good will and that you do not essentially want to enable at least that little window at least one small part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is using the Internet, is proof – you have all the conditions secured for Internet transfers, you have an internal transmission in the building of the Assembly, both here and in King Milan, and do not tell me that the Assembly has no possibility of letting that signal go on the Internet. It's not about providing conditions, you already have a website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and an Internet transmission, if it were and when it was, you'd just let it go. So technically, it's a job that could be done within 15 minutes. It's not a problem. The problem's in good faith. Also, the problem is that internet transmission is not something that is available to most Serbian citizens, and television broadcasts are something that is available to most Serbian citizens, but concrete examples show that you do not want to provide and carry for the majority or even for the minority of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35357	It was used two minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, Mrs. Kolundjia, you seem to have not read the detailed bill of law you have submitted. The National Assembly cannot have anything, nor its television, because the National Assembly is not a legal person, it is the state body of the Republic of Serbia. You wrote this beautifully in the bill – that the National Assembly only uses the property of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises whose Serbian Radio-Television is, why is it called public service, why do Serbian citizens pay a subscription if the Public Service has no obligation to directly transfer sessions of the National Assembly? In each democratic state, the National Assembly session is a first-rate political event and cannot be suspended by various sports events or other shows that, hands to heart, are not at all interesting to the largest number of Serbian citizens. The biggest nonsense I've ever heard is that you allegedly beat us in the fight for direct television broadcasts. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, defeated yourself because in 1991, as I recall, you still believed that Tito and the party were the greatest ideals in the world. You couldn't possibly win a victory over the Serbian Radical Party to secure television transmissions in 1991 because at that time we absolutely didn't have a single lever of state power in the Republic of Serbia, and your party boss, in time, Nebojsa Covic, was one of the main publics of Slobodan Milosevic, in 1991.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35359	A minute and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35360	I don't want to look back on what's personal, but I want to say that you must certainly know what the legal position of the Public Service of Serbia is. It's not state television. It has a completely different position in society, and no state body can order RTS to do anything. It is a fluid, also democratic society, that by creating a public service that is in the function of citizens, and not any political set, the possibility of free information and the creation of public opinion that will be based on unabused information. I don't want to argue that you now suspect that we're going to shut down the television broadcasts. You also claimed that we would not want the auditor to do his job, that we would not want any independent state body to do its job. I assure you we will. We care about the transfer of assembly sessions and we will advocate, create conditions, and as technology develops, so on the basis of technological achievements, we will create conditions to be fully available to citizens of Serbia without interruption of the session of the National Assembly. We do not want to hide what is happening here, on the contrary, we believe that the interest of Serbian citizens is to know what we are doing here. As you probably believe that you are doing the best you know, we believe that we are really working in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. We think it's good for them to see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35361	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35362	Mrs. Kolundzija, we don't consider ourselves to be any kind of furniture, but representatives of Serbian citizens. I don't understand how you provide the public with the work of the National Assembly by releasing delayed transfers at two or three o'clock in the morning? It's no public work of the National Assembly, it's hiding from the public what you wrote in your bill. As for this famous creation of conditions, Mrs. Kolundjia, direct TV broadcasts were introduced in 1991, if I'm not mistaken. That's when conditions were created. Did you lose them in the meantime? It's 2010. Where did your terms come from in the last 20 years? He's got a condition. If there are conditions, then it is perfectly normal for you to say in the law – it is directly conveyed sessions of the National Assembly, but directly in the literal sense of those words, because they cannot hockey, Bob, skiing, downhill, etc. to be more important than the laws that will regulate the position of millions of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for this comment of yours that Serbian Radio Television is not a state-owned company, what is it? For all I know, in the market economy you have two forms of property – state property and private property. Is RTS private property? If it's private, tell me what it is, and if it's not private, it means it's kind of state-owned. What does the word “public ” mean? That actually means state. It's impossible that RTS is neither a private company nor a state company now. What kind of company is that, social? For all I know, social property and social property are relics of a time ago. How do you get RTS to transmit? By making the law. How do you make citizens pay taxes? By law, you make them bound. That's how you do it with RTS. Now, when it comes to RTS, wow, we don't know how. When people are supposed to pay taxes, you prescribe the law. What prevents you from making a direct regulation of the RTS's obligation to transfer sessions of the National Assembly? Nothing prevents you, but you are afraid of what is happening in the National Assembly, you are afraid of the arguments that the SRS has, as you fear the arguments that Vojislav Seselj has in The Hague tribunal, and then delay his trial after midnight. It is the same logic when it comes to meetings of the National Assembly and when it comes to the transfer of the trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35363	Two minutes and forty seconds have been used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35364	These public transmissions have shown, and the more there are, and there are always the most in them, they show that it really cannot endanger us, on the contrary, endangers you. So the elections show that the more you are on these direct, direct transfers, the weaker you become among the citizens. So we can't be objected that we're afraid of it, on the contrary, we think it's best for citizens to see who's representing them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35365	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35366	Mrs. Kolundjia, the last elections I participated in were in May of 2008. Meanwhile, there was no parliamentary elections in Serbia. As any political party in these elections will pass, believe me, neither you nor I have a glass ball in front of us, so that we can know what happens this year, next year or two years from now. Leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Just please, when the time comes for these parliamentary elections, go to the polls with your political programme, let's forget about the packages, forget about the baggers, forget about the abuse of the state budget; let's just forget about the ministers promising on the day of the tower and the cities; let's just forget that you're paying people to vote for the Democratic Party. Let's just forget about it, so go out with your program, say, "Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here we are the Democratic Party, we did it and we did it." Well, if you get a majority of those new parliamentary elections, here, I'll be the first one to take your hat off.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35367	A minute used. National MP Nada Kolundzija, authorised representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35368	Of course we're going out with the program and of course thanks to the programme we've been going out with, we've been getting bigger and bigger support from Serbian citizens. Of course, we're going to go out with the program in the future, but as far as we're concerned, we can say that it is consistent, is the fact that we're the basic programming goals from our establishment to this day and that citizens simply recognize it. How you're going to present your programming goals to the citizens, that's your thing, but what's important is to remind yourself of what you've been doing, what you were like when you were able to be in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35369	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35370	Here, Mrs. Kolundzija, if you could just give me a little clarification, I didn't understand in the best way – when you say "our political principles" do you mean the political principles of the SKJ, the SPS, the Social Democratic Party or the Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35371	Fifteen seconds. Anyone else want a word? If not, the MP Zlata Djeric has submitted to the 11th amendment with the correction. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 11, that is, the public work of this house, is really very much spoken of today. I think it's one of the essential members of this law that's, first of all, long-awaited, and secondly, that determines the work of the National Assembly. My colleague Aleksandra Jankovic and I have made two different views on how this article could overcome the problem of transfer and public work of the Assembly, i.e. to allow citizens of Serbia to have constant insight into the work of the National Assembly. When we say the National Assembly, or the Law on the National Assembly, that adjective “national ” is not descriptive, but acquittal, and the adjective means belonging. This means that this assembly, with its work, all its attributes, obligations and all its results, belongs to the citizens of Serbia. I must indeed welcome a sentence by Mrs Comic, which I very much like, when the citizens of Serbia come, whether they are students, students, or any other Serbian citizens on this balcony to see our work, when she says, "Welcome to your house". This is a Serbian citizen's house, and they should have insight into every segment of this home's work, because this is the only place they really need every minute of their existence to represent them and protect their interests. We have all committed ourselves to this, and we have to respect it until the end, otherwise we will suffer the consequences of trying sometimes because of different needs, as this law allows, to close some sessions for the public, regardless of whether they are these plenary sessions or whether they are committee sessions. So, the citizens of Serbia need every moment of the work of the National Assembly and their representatives in it to follow, because we represent their interests here, protect their interests and advocate to work in their interest and for their better future, as this is most often said here. That's what we insisted on. We consider this Article 11 to be a serious threat to the public of the work of the National Assembly. We talked about this a lot, about the possibility of abuse of television transmissions, about delayed transmissions, about what they mean and why it seems. Public service is advertised daily as a public service for European Serbia. Public service charges citizens a subscription, and when they want it and when they don't. Other TVs don't do that. The public service takes the money and is obliged to transfer to the citizens the work of the only body that represents them, therefore, the National Assembly. I say again, it is not a descriptive adjective, it is an adjective, this assembly belongs to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35373	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35374	I'd just like to refer to this amendment by Mrs. Zlata Djeric. We are extremely concerned that even after this Law on the National Assembly, we are still moving away from democracy, from the basic democratic principles, from the public in the work, from everything we were obliged to honor at the beginning of the 21st century. So this is our big concern. You've been in power for almost half of your term, and don't think you'll be staying long, but you're passing one of the nakarad laws, which completely prohibits the public from working. You can see that as soon as you turn the RTS on. How can it be said: "The public service of European Serbia" and is paid by Serbian citizens? It is the public service of Serbian citizens, not of European Serbia. You have all the Europeans, everything is someone's, and nothing is the citizens of Serbia. Everyone has some rights, but we don't have any rights. We can't say anything. You're the one who just built a casino at the Public Service. You have every night a casino, that a man is sicker than that – the smallest single offer. How can he do this to the public service? You assign cars, you gamble. How much do you make? Who are you reporting to? How? In what way? I'm looking at you this morning, and they're trying to sue you for non-compatible obligations that the public service has to do with some of the world's companies, because they're stealing the program. The director can't act crazy right now and he won't pay for it. You say you went to the polls with your program. That's not true. You went to the election and you won the election, and you barely got it; I don't even know how you got it, do you even have a majority; why it didn't show up on the budget, when it shows if anyone has a majority. You came out with a series of frauds, you cheated on Serbian citizens, and now you don't want the public to work, let's say that you cheated on Serbian citizens. Just a reminder, your program was 200,000 jobs, a new 200,000 jobs, and you'll have 200,000 jobs. You said – for a rich village, a ransom, that a surplus of rural products would be bought, etc. It's not gonna happen. You said there was no monopoly in the store. There is. You said a number of things, a thousand euros per capita. It's not gonna happen. You said - corridors. How many years are you in power and how many corridors have you built? A dozen miles. What about the corridors? The president of the Infrastructure Council, Mr. Boris Tadic, allowed the Gazela Bridge to fall into the river. It's similar with the Pancheva Bridge. Why didn't he come out now to explain what his advice was doing, but to shut down the concession that was the biggest investment in Serbia? So when you're wrong, when you have nothing to say, you shut up and cover your ears. Here, this morning, the president's proposal comes out again in the morning program, full of the mouths of the fight against crime, and we give him who are the greatest criminals. Whose office are they in? It doesn't have to work much, it doesn't have to move, it doesn't have to travel around the world; it's all there, it just needs to call them and solve the issue of fighting crime. The other day, the State Secretary of Justice came out and said nicely that as far as the Saric case is concerned, some political parties and some current politicians are behind it. Who are the current politicians behind it? Why keep quiet about it? You don't have a program. You have an election program that brings up a series of scams, and then after all that you're camouflaged, you close up and then you tell empty stories. You said this morning that pensions can grow, that they increase in line with pay growth in some public enterprises. You were immediately denied from the International Monetary Fund. After three minutes, their denials came out. They won't tell you – come on, don't lie, they tell you nicely that they can't. Krkobic comes out with the program as if it were the most successful programme and everyone in the world was thrilled. I think this model of his will accept the whole world as very good and original, and ask the pensioners how they live. That's why you don't let them hear the real state of things in Serbia and don't give them the transmissions. You want to close public transfers. Here, the other night at half past three, at four o'clock you presented one important question. Remember what time the Information Act was? Who is watching television, a serious show, or a congregation broadcast, at four or three hours after midnight? Nobody. No one serious. Maybe someone who comes back knocked out of a bar and falls asleep next to a hot TV set. You're playing with this institution of parliament, you're passing laws and you're embarrassingly defending it. I hear individuals come out here and defend it. To some of our remarks, well-intentioned, that through the amendments, we can still sort out what's wrong, how many, some of yours come, some of them defend, so full of the mouth of democracy, etc. Where do you have democracy? Is there any democracy in freedom of movement? There isn't. No one is allowed to move around Belgrade without much protection. Where do you have the protection measures, just explain it to me? Where do you have democracy developed? Where can a public opinion be made without sanctions, without consequences, etc.? Is there a judge allowed to come out and give his opinion publicly? He can, but he's gone. Is the prosecution allowed to say - we're right, this will be? He can't, because there won't be any more. Are the representatives of the Constitutional Court allowed to come out and say that the introduction of EULEX in Kosovo is against the constitution? They can't. We expected that through this law, institutions such as parliament would be protected, that you would protect this parliament, that there would be answers to those questions that are very serious, which life means for this country. But you want to hide it all from the public. Your representatives of the government must not go out into any public duel with any of the opposition. There can't be any confrontation. You protect them as icons, take them to the studio, of course, bring your journalist, they tell the story. Here, Dinkic said the crisis was over, for 15 days, well-being in Serbia. Is that what happened? The guy in the farm says there's no more crisis, everything's fine. What does the peasant say? Can we hear that somewhere? What does the worker say? What does the opposition MP say? What do those who are not in the ruling coalition say? Did you hear yesterday's information that, according to a public opinion survey, 33.5% of young people under 30 have expressed their desire to leave Serbia? That's the result of your authority, that's the result, everyone wants to go somewhere. You didn't tell us that you're now negotiating to give the region a centre in Novi Pazar. Of course, to pass this declaration and not to be called genocide, but crime, and so on. That's right, 100%. That's what certain politicians bring out in public in these cities that you've shamefully attached and made of them a part of Sandzak. How can the Zlatar, part of the Zlatibor, attach? You do all that to extend a little power in a few months, and no one can hear it, no one can know. Here for the hundredth time I asked a single question – how were the money given for the establishment, the founding role of "Zagrebačka Banka" transferred to encrypted private accounts? Why did the state, through the D.A., give up the part of the action that belongs to us and write this letter? I'll file today at four o'clock. Will the D.A. start criminal proceedings? Who took 2.2 billion euros and put in their private encrypted accounts? Who are these people? So there are a number of questions here that you don't want to start. As soon as those questions come to order, you stop immediately. I asked the question, and a few days ago and a month ago, who without a tender assigned to pass through the corridors an optical cable, which annually brings a net profit of 450.000 euros, that the 25,000,000-euro investment, which is paid by project for nine months, will be allocated to tycoons outside Serbia, with co-operation with our tycoons. Why did Minister Dulic urge that such a project, which passed without a tender, be approved urgently? How is it possible for these works to be carried out without a building permit, without the consent of boards and public enterprises? We used to talk in the government that this would improve the status of "The Railway" and "The Road", because this additional income will go in the register "The Railway" and "The Road of Serbia". But now he's going to go to a company I don't know. I asked here who is Nuba Invest, whose Nuba Invest is and who pushes so much money there. How are they going to be able to split up some highways without a tender, by invitation? How can she do that? Is that possible in the world? It's okay. It's up to us. Why? Because you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, have decided so. Therefore, think carefully, withdraw this law and make a law that will protect the institution of parliament. You don't have a majority. You will now and the MPs of the opposition to make you a quorum. Nowhere in the opposition world gives a quorum to a ruling party. The ruling coalition must secure the quorum. Who are your men in the ruling coalition? Do you know how to name them? You don't have most of them. This is an interesting group that runs through the halls, gathers, carves, votes. Is it a shameful vote of the budget that was voted in such a way? In my opinion, it is. That budget will be destroyed all this year. Why hasn't a contract with the Fiat been explained? I asked a hundred times – to whom did "Fiat" pay 98,000,000 euros? You're playing on the map of the Fiat, which has closed down factories in his country, and now he's come to us here to bring us into prosperity. Where are you going to sell 200,000 cars full? Is that possible? Where are your cars? Therefore, you have a number of problems, so run away from the public, so you work at night, so hold night sessions and therefore do not give direct transfers, that Serbia does not hear what the problem is, extremely large, Serbia and hide the key things. Why did you cover up Kristo's problem? What happened to that man? Is everything okay now? Why did you cover up the problem when the president of the state addressed the nation and said that Luka "Belgrade" and "Usje" damaged the state and the city of Belgrade by two and a half billion euros? That's what the head of state said. It was a show on B 92. Why is everyone quiet now? It's all right. No one can ask. Therefore, you have a problem with television, you have a problem with the public, no one can publicly ask that question. You can do that at night sessions. You'll be released around half past four in the morning, when the bakers wake up and go to work, so maybe someone throws around, but most won't. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling majority, think fat. You're here for a few more months and don't think you'll be long. You're gonna get all this on your head. Believe me, this will come back to you as a boomerang, you'll see it well, and that's why you'll have big problems. Let's not tear down the Serbian parliament's institution. Such a parliament, such a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35375	The total time available to the president of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35376	I'll spend a minute or two of my time explaining what respect for the rules and procedures in this house means. The amendment to Article 11 was submitted by the Prosperity Group to Serbia at 10 p.m. on the third, with a desire to change part of the text; the New Serbia parliamentary group at 10.10 p.m., asking to delete St. 2, 4 and 5; the LDP parliamentary group, the same 20th, at 9.55 p.m., also seeks amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, the same twenty-third, at 9.45 p.m., requires that changes be made. If you look at article 151. The Rules of Procedure which regulates the work and way of obtaining words and order of consideration of the amendments, depending on whether you seek to delete or amend certain provisions, or you, Mrs. Komic, so brilliant, could not find a way to give words in such order and call the applicants of the amendment. No time, no way to explain the changes to these provisions could justify your order. So much for the rules. The devil is always about money. The public's work proves it's money and the public's work. What you propose and stubbornly reject the proposals of all of us from the opposition that we do not take ourselves to the burden of creating conditions for television and internet transmissions speaks of the following: The Assembly, which otherwise kuburs with its budget, in which we do not have decent working conditions, and I will explain it, should create conditions under this bill to the Public Service, i.e. submits financial costs for preparing the signal they will take over. Gentlemen and citizens of Serbia, article 11, which guarantees the public of work, is in fact defining the cost of transferring these assembly sessions. What a price of darkness it will be to find out if you see negotiations with Serbia's Radio-Television on continuing transmission, which, as a public service, with the priority of jobs negotiated sports and other activities. Someone here dares to tell us it's not a public service like some state institution. Why wouldn't you? Just as the Civil Aviation Directorate has declared to be a separate agency, which on behalf of this state can charge as much as he wants, to do with what he wants, so he can't take the bills, why can't Tijanic? Why can't the public service? Do you know why he can? Because you have come to understand the power just like this – that the first law and every next one you should bring should be to defend the acquired power. How do you defend her? By covering up already made affairs and spending money and preventing new ones from being found out. Why are we sitting in this building where, with my crouch, you, Mrs. Comic, are hot? We've moved to a building where the air conditioning doesn't work properly and in which we wear scarves, jackets. One day we'll take blankets to cover ourselves, not to get sick in this upper row, regardless of who the position is and who the opposition is, while the presidency is sweating and red because they're hot. So because someone wanted to cover a bad way of investing money in the equipment of this building, they decided to put us in a building where we don't have decent working conditions; or, at least, to call them different. Now the question is raised here – how will the public get involved with the spending money through an account, which will be called the congregation budget, so that whoever wants to take the signal? My lords, with 126 it may be possible, but today I warn the citizens that the too high price of darkness they will receive is visible from your behaviour so far. This law you called the Law on the National Assembly, do you know what it looks like? On that Fuko opening provision, where philosopher Michel Fuko cites Borhes' copy of the animal division, which is actually taken over from a Chinese encyclopedia. It reads this: “The animals are divided into those belonging to the emperor, the smell, the domesticated, the sirens, the monsters, the dogs on the loose, the countless, those painted with camel hair, included in this classification, etc.” As you can see, there is no common criterion in this classification. Also, there is no common criterion in this law under which something is included as a provision which is debated precisely and technically to detail, and something else is not. The Constitution speaks of the Assembly, its responsibilities, of the President of the Assembly, representing it, and of MPs and their rights and obligations. This law speaks of the guard, the red carpet, the solemn music and the powers that need to be given to a official who handles the organs, i.e. The secretary-general, who needs to be leveled with the state secretaries of the ministries, is so important that it is the least important that the MPs in this assembly hall do their duty, for example, to obtain material, which is their basic means of working for them. I was personally in the second meeting again in this building, and since 1992, I have been an MP (and I warn some that history does not begin with them and that business is not written since 2000, but has been written long before) and I have been really painful, even at some point I felt very uncomfortable, I have advocated to come to the material that would allow me to do my job. This means that what you have, for example, written in this bill, will be regulated by Article 56, says – for anything that is not provided for by a special member of the law, a procedure, e.g. delivering the bill, the National Assembly will decide in accordance with democratic standards, general rules and the nature of the issues to be decided. These rules and democratic procedures were as follows: the material is printed out, taken on a wheelchair to a parliamentary club, without a date, as if all of us MPs, us 250, live in Belgrade, we have no other job, we sit in the hall waiting for material. For a session through the media, we hear that it is scheduled, with 38 - 50 points of the agenda, with short deadlines for submitting amendments, as if we were superhumans who should sit here at the same time, prepare and write amendments. And then someone says, your job as an opposition is to help the authorities correct the bad laws. So, the way in which the material was delivered, which was defined to you at least by the Rules of Procedure, Article 139, says that immediately after the reception of the material, the President of the Assembly delivers material to the MPs for introduction. Do you have anything against CTU so you won't mail it to us who don't live in Belgrade? What are these modern means of communication for? Or are you going to convince me that I need to sit here and I don't know what it is, that you're giving me material at the time of entry, so that you look prepared, too smart, and we're unprepared, irresponsible, and I don't know what we're already serving as an opposition? I will give one concrete piece of evidence to which this assembly as an institution, legislative, representative and supervisory, is privatised. This is the way of identifying delegations attending the visits of some other delegations and professional bodies, the way delegations are drawn up besides those established as international bodies, who are leaving, whether we know it at all, and who and when it gets materials to be familiar with them in a timely manner. One of the wonderful seminars held in this building, in a small hall, spoke about the capacity of parliamentary democracy. His organization was attended by Mrs. Komic, her personal will, as well as the acquisition of material mainly depends on the personal will of the officials in this building. I do not want it to be my privilege, as one of 250, but the right of all of us to be written in the procedure, the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure or any document that I can see, and not to be condescendingly grateful to anyone for allowing me to read material or attend one of these seminars, where he is a wonderful guest, you remember him, Mrs. Komic, never again invited me to a seminar, Mr. Fabio Francini said this way: "Actors in parliament, position and opposition, have different and competitive goals and that determines the line of conflict or line of divisions, and that is theoretically proven. “ Instead of narrowing this existing theoretical line of divides and conflicts in the interests of the people, in that minimum of common approach called the institution of parliament, you are digging trenches apart us from those who should think that your language by default is the language of a national minority, that when we ask that it be, in accordance with the law, made possible for every member of parliament to have something against someone. But the inconsistencies in this bill say not that this law has been done superficially, it has been done for a year, with the help of many international institutions and various seminars, but that the essence of Article 11, in which it is necessary to leave open the possibility for different interpretations of the public work – whether or not, if we pay, we will have a transfer, if we do not pay, we will not. We know the money's gone, there's hardly gonna be any transmissions, but if we trust any grateful contractors with the construction, the creation of some original television signal here, or the Internet, then maybe there'll be that transmission, but in what way? As it has been repeatedly advertised in the record by me as an SNS MP, where the opposition is called amorphous mass - opposition, as if we were nameless people, where the reasons for the adoption of individual laws are quoted again, as if the government had no opening presentation, and where you can't find out whether you were on any committee or whether it was held and from who the delegation member is you'll have a report on your stay or he'll eventually be late. It's not unclear why things happen like that. It's clear that whoever's under the pear gets a pear first, but whoever's under the pear has to know that this people are hungry for the truth, because they don't even see it in television broadcasts from a rally, where they know exactly why and how someone's exposure is quoted and part of someone's exposure. Because you all know, like me, even if you and I are attending the same event, your picture is your picture of that event and my impression of an event is my picture of that event. Why are you making it impossible for the people to create their own image of an event called parliamentary democracy and debate in this house? Why do you play democracy, you say -- we're going to have a college as a body that's going to build a agenda? Do not mind the roughness of comparisons, but the heads of the opposition parliamentary groups and their deputies will give me the right – in the same way that the Kosovo government plays the freedom of movement and the desire to return Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija, both in this law and in real behavior, acting as an agreement with the opposition on the agenda, the way of work or even the goals to be achieved when it comes to meeting with some international delegations. Don't make it happen to anyone that I or any of my colleagues, because I have no bad experience, accuse us of not sticking to that minimum of national interests, pride and attitude when we go somewhere on an international visit. That's mostly what every man who leaves this Parliament takes care of. But the right to act as a collegiate, agreed body in which the president of the National Assembly or the chairman of the board determines who goes, because, God, someone is going to cause problems, and someone has not been obedient enough or good enough, it's offensive, it has a boomerang effect. But you're lucky you don't have vindictive people in front of you, because we know what it means to go into history and wonder who started it first, or who did it. You have a wonderful practice that with the help of international institutions... and the opportunity you missed, to arrange the Rules of Procedure along with this law. Why did we not arrange the Rules of Procedure, which should tell us further about the reports of the State Auditing Institution, how to improve the control, that is, the supervisory role of this home, but assure us that monitoring the work on committees will be sufficiently informative and the focus of the work carried there? You're all mature enough and you're afraid of choices so you're aware that the colorful lies don't even believe children anymore. Please do not underestimate, above all, the natural intelligence of Serbian citizens. One hundred twenty-six hands, which are at some point and because of something collected, doesn't mean that you won the election, you only knew the coalition capacity better to use, or the resources of the state to bribe the citizens and thus, cheating them that there would be money to pay off those pensions that were left at the level at which they were, and certain manipulations of the statistical nature, to convince them that you had won. All right, and that's a skill (machiavelistic, though, but skill, I admit), but keep in mind that elections, even when held within a regular period, are an account for what we do today. Please, don't let every next government that comes in start with a change of law and that always the story starts with a change of constitution. We're passing laws that can last at least a few terms of office. Whatever they're talking about, whoever they're talking about, let us pass laws that will last longer than the conceit of an arrogant government, who doesn't realize that the elections are right under the nose of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35377	Nineteen minutes, two minutes for the amendment and seventeen minutes from the time of the parliamentary group were used. So, the total time of the parliamentary group president was used, it was available for ten minutes and thirty seconds, and five minutes and thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue our work, I invite you to welcome the students of Hope Dimic Economic School from Zemun, who are following us today from the National Assembly Gallery. In your name and name, I welcome Magdalna Kerić, Diana Lemaić, Maja Vjestic, Maja Spasic, Anu Canak, Nevena Kamber, Marina Jurčević, Milica Krisic, Tamara Alexic, Jelenu Zajović, Radivoja Lalić, Dusan Ilic, Zoran Trifunović, Melina Rebronja, Sanja Puzović, Branko Nerlović, Marija Tasev, Sonja Saviović, Monika Kartar, Jelena Petković, Aleksandra Mladenov, Irena Kostov, Jasna Brkić, Branislav Devrnje, Milica Mirlović, Bojana Stajković, Aleksandra Bozović, Lidija Lukić, Jeleno Milošević, Teodor Rodić, Vanja Kraljović, Tija Krastić, Tija Kostić, Tijana Katić, Sofia Mladen, Sofia Mladen and Martin Bursija Mladenović and Martin Bursac. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone else answering for a word in the discussion in particular? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe he is a injured member of the 85th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's almost 15 hours now, and we haven't had a break yet. We started working effectively around noon. At 4:00 p.m., that part of the session will begin asking parliamentary questions to the government and ministers, and we will work until 19.00 p.m. This means that the Members of Parliament will be working on a full seven hours on a continuous basis. It is a serious law on the National Assembly, i.e., the law is not so serious, I think it is a more serious debate than the bill says, and on the other hand, we will keep asking questions to the government for three hours. People's MPs must have at least an hour's break so we can prepare for this second session of the National Assembly when we ask questions to the government. We are now discussing a bill on the National Assembly, giving such broad rights to the MPs, we have some great freedom, some great rights, and here the conditions are like that of a slave driver. Seven full hours we've been working and discussing two completely different topics: by 16 hours we're talking about the bill, 16 to 19 hours we're asking questions to the government. I don't know when you think the MPs who want to take part in the search in particular of the draft law on the National Assembly are preparing to ask parliamentary questions. The parliamentary issues are serious and concern all citizens of Serbia and it takes time for MPs to prepare themselves, to move from one way of working, which is a debate in particular, to ask parliamentary questions to government members. Accordingly, Mrs Comic, I would kindly ask you on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, and I believe in the name of all other parliamentary groups, to determine that break of one hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35379	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've missed the likely presence in the O.R., about 11:45 hours I've notified all the MPs, based on Article 85, that precisely because we started later, in order to coordinate the work of the committee and share the reports of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, we will work from 12.15 hours, without a break, to 19.00 hours, so that the MPs were familiar with that information. In line with the agreement with the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, Parliamentarian Judith Popovic, Natas Jovanovic and Nikola Novakovic, and MP Cedomir Jovanovic said the same thing that you said, I agree that we need a little break before the 1600 session begins to ask parliamentary questions, but not an hour break, so that we will take a break, logically, after a debate on some amendment, around 15:30-15.40 hours, so that we can prepare ourselves for a session to ask parliamentary questions and that the government, i.e. The ministers could come in. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35380	I'll talk about this amendment briefly. In this amendment, it is requested that Article 12, paragraph 3, which otherwise refers to the appearance and use of emblems, markings and other symbols and markings, be deleted: "In drawing up the proposal referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this Article, the competent working body shall cooperate with prominent experts and artists. “ I don’t think this descriptive category of “experienced experts and artists ” in the legal solution can stand. The first, second and fourth positions in the law are quite clear; some other laws determine how to access competitions for making such signs, markings and emblems. So, what does it mean to be "extreme experts and artists", is this highlighted in some political parties or highlighted by public standards? I don't think that's the right definition to qualify someone to work on this important issue of marking or marking the Assembly and the hallmarks, markings, emblems and markings.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35381	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35382	It is our proposal to delete this provision in the law that the guard stands at the beginning and at the end of the regular session of the National Assembly. Although we do not share it, we can accept the ambition to mark in a solemn way some dates in the work of the National Assembly, but we do not see any ceremony at the beginning and completion of the regular session. It's even hard to imagine some young soldiers standing there for forty hours on December 29th waiting for us to finish. As you all know, we usually end up then, around midnight, and we start around 9:00 in the morning. We think it's going to turn out to be some kind of mockery that's going to make a mockery of this institution. What we would also like to ask, since it is not clear to us, if it is the honorary unit of the Serbian Army, are we assuming that it is the former Yugoslav Army Guard? With that in mind, I must remind you that there is one... If you want to bind this military unit to this institution, I need to remind you of something that happened four or five years ago, and it's never been lit up, and it happened within the framework of the task force. It's about the death of two young soldiers in Topcider, who's never been enlightened to the end. It is also, in a certain way, about the dishonest role of this unit in many events during the 1990s, but also in 2001, around Vidovdan. We don't understand why you chose from all possible solemn units right here, which associates us with a lot of bad things. We'd like, if that's possible, to be some other honorary unit, at least until the question of killed soldiers in the Topcider is brought to light and the role of all the people in that unit in that murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35383	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35384	Reporting under Article 31. Although it is not enough for you and I to discuss in our internal communication, in order to avoid confusion, you and your colleagues, Judit Popovic, told me that there will be no break in the work of one hour, as the deputy president of our parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic asked, for the reasons you stated, that you estimated this morning at 11:45 this morning that it was unnecessary because the Assembly later began working, because of the work of the board. We disagree. Our MP group believes that you can possibly make such a decision if you want to have a consensus, not to privatise (not to you personally, but to the General Assembly), with all the heads of parliament groups. In this case, only counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic gave you consent. If you decide to do something like that, of course neither I nor anyone at the chair can stop you, but we can warn you that parliamentary practice has been during working hours, no matter when we start work, we have an hour's break. This time, it would be necessary, given what counterpart Martinovic said, that ministers are coming at 4:00 p.m. and that we are asked questions to the government on a regular day for this. I suggest you change that decision after all, because it is obviously the will of others, by the reaction of other parliamentary groups, that such a break follows during this period when it is common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35385	In order not to repeat the previous explanation, given that we had a break at the beginning and another break in order to complete the work and the coordinated work of the board and the session, when about 15:30-15.40 hours we finish some overall discussion in particular will be a short break. I said MP Cedomir Jovanovic, along with the vice presidents, had the same proposal and I said there would be a short break, not an hour's break, given that we already had it. MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35386	I think you misunderstood me or someone in your argument could draw the wrong conclusion. We don't mind doing our job here, but it's really inappropriate without any time of work to get into a completely different session. We still don't know which government representatives are going to be present here, and it would be a shame to run from here from the bench upstairs to the offices to get the materials we've prepared, so we can get back here. Therefore, I think it is enough to find some compromise and, through a small break, to allow us to prepare adequately for a session where the government will be represented. It's not about whether we can do this part of the agenda or not, we can, but since at four, otherwise this session is interrupted, then it would be good if we could get ready for a new one. It was just an idea, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35387	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 14? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35388	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that today's debate has clearly shown that we were absolutely right when we tried through the amendments to fix some text, which is really impossible to fix. It is sad that no consensus has been reached in the National Assembly when such an important law has been passed and the problem is that no broad support has been provided. We saw that this proposal was supported by 128 MPs, and I had the opportunity to make sure today that many of them were not satisfied with the proposed text, whether certain provisions were entered, whether certain provisions were removed which they wanted to find themselves in this text. After two years, one text of 80 members, addressed to 90 amendments. The capital changes to the original proposal that the working group made include oaths, anthems and guards, and this particular member defines certain issues related to the alignment of the Honorary Unit of the Serbian Army in front of the House of National Assembly. We have had the opportunity to hear from the task force's representatives that this picture will raise the reputation of this parliament and that the citizens of Serbia will get the impression that there is a solemn and working atmosphere here, but that cannot be done by force. I don't know if we will measure that reputation through the number of laws this parliament will pass, which will not be applied tomorrow in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, but this reputation will be measured by kilograms, so someone will be respected 200 grams, some two kilograms or another unit of measurement will be used. Today I also received an amendment that was accepted by the Justice Committee, that this law would come into effect the next day since the publication in "The Official Messenger", which means that we will already have a guard in front of the House of the National Assembly on Tuesday, we will pass by that escalator, here will be the intonated anthem. When that beautiful picture is sent through the media to Serbian citizens' homes to observe the transfer, then 32 points of the agenda will be united in two or three debates, that very important laws of discussion in two or three days. Simply, the DSS will vote against such a bill on the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35389	Two minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to Article 15, which speaks of the authority of the Assembly. With this amendment, I have proposed an amendment to point 8). For the sake of the public, I must read the provision of point 8. The provision states this: "it gives prior consent to the Statute of the Autonomous Province". This amendment proposes that the words "autonomic provinces" be replaced by the words "autonomous provinces". We are aware that the constitutional decree has standardized two autonomous provinces. We are literally amputating a province with this standard. What our enemies have done in real life is done in a normative sense. It's inadmissible, anti-constitutional norms in this way as you're norming. With this standard, you are helping those who have made us lose AP Kosovo and Metohija in real life. This isn't the first time. This is the way of norming in the course of last year you installed in five to six laws a provision in a single, referring to an autonomous province, referring to the AP Vojvodina, which is why we normally delete AP Kosovo and Metohija. This is an anti-constitutional provision. I advocate and demand, on behalf of the SRS and the people of Serbia, that this be erased and that the real, normative provision be - an autonomous province, as the Constitution requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35391	The word has the National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35392	The President-in-Office, unfortunately, you claim that the constitutional provision is also anti-constitutional, as Article 99 of point 8 says: "it gives prior consent to the Statute of the Autonomous Province". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35393	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35394	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The task of this National Assembly is to help, among other things, in a normative sense, to round up the defence system, thus defending and preserving the Autonomous province. If we are norming in this way, as I said, during last year in different forms of legal norms we always show it in one way, thus helping our enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35395	Thirty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35396	I think you're asking us to fix the Constitution, which I don't think we can do with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35397	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. This amendment was adopted by the proposing representative. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35398	Mrs. Comic, if I could move a little bit from this given time, count on what the parliamentary group has. Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm speaking to you, since you're a proposing officer. I'm gonna spread this story a little bit. You know, the National Assembly can't, as a state body, have a function. I must draw your attention to the fact that the Constitution and the laws define something that is part of the work, so that within the work cycle, the area is grouped, and then there is the term "independence". This term applies when it comes to the National Assembly as a state body – it is competent to do or competent tasks and within that jurisdiction there are certain rights and obligations. When you say "function", if you step out of the domain of mathematics and physics, then the word binds to an individual who performs a public function. So a private function doesn't exist, there's only a public function. We've been here for years to deal with conflict of interest and to prevent conflicts of interest for public officials. The MP is a public office holder, and the National Assembly holds no function, but has jurisdiction. This is the general problem of Article 15. Now let's concentrate on paragraph 3, try to figure out what dialectics exist between the words you use, which are the words "control", "control". You're using both words wrong. Then don't mind the amendment. In the amendment, we promote the word “competence, ” just to draw attention. When right is said to control something, then it means that someone who does something within his jurisdiction always has someone to ask, or someone who's above him, so he keeps following what he's doing. It's a tad control. When it comes to surveillance, Mrs. Hope, you're right, that word is used and has more meaning; so there is so-called Inspection, which is characteristic of the organ, exists so-called administrative supervision, there is supervision of the application of the rules, etc. I'm telling you all this to tell you that you've made a big mistake in attitude 3, which is, of course, connected to that initial error in article 7, where you listed all the functions of the National Assembly, so you said there was this so-called. control function. If the relationship between the National Assembly as the authorities and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as organs is considered, then what connects is the government's responsibility issue. How is the government’s responsibility considered? The constitution has been prescribed - by the vote of no confidence, by voting on trust, of course, by choice, resolution, resignation, both by the entire government and by individual ministers. The government is tasked predominantly with leading foreign and domestic policy. In the conduct of foreign and domestic policy, within the framework of the government's responsibility to the National Assembly, in a purely political sense, when they lose 126 votes here, regardless of whether it's justified or not, the government falls, and this fall of government is a form of responsibility. When we come to the field of law, I need to draw your attention to the government's application of laws; the National Assembly observes how government and state authorities apply laws, but the way of observation is neither control nor control, but again through the responsibility of the government. That logic is similar to that of other authorities who account for what they do for the National Assembly. So, you're wrong in article 7, you've branched out groups of jobs, defining them as functions of the National Assembly, it doesn't exist in the Constitution. I agree with you when you say - why do you criticise the provision of the bill when it is prescribed by a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It's never done in laws. Why? Because then you bring the constitutional norm down to legal. But when you do that copying in some free form or someone puts a finger on your forehead. I keep calling you, why you're in Article 37. Article 102 of Article 2 of the Law characterises the proposal for a law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you copy it? No, you didn't do it because there's some other interest. In that sense, this amendment should be understood. I know, now you will jump and say, "But you have suggested the word "supervisory." If you consider the word "supervise" a means to question the government's responsibility, I must tell you that the amendment is not good either. But you should have understood the amendment as a means of warning: when something is prescribed from the Constitution, let's rewrite it as written in the Constitution and give it the meaning it has in the Constitution. Here the meaning of certain provisions of the Constitution is changed. That's the remark. Of course, we are aware, all of us who are in this room, that this bill or amendments, especially those amendments that you have adopted, cannot be brought into order. Apropo something that was just a moment ago, everything that represents liquids and good parliamentary practice or something that is a custom, I'll take as an example direct TV transmissions, if we're already writing a law on the National Assembly, then we could turn this good parliamentary practice and turn that custom into a legal norm. I agree that there are other legal systems where what lives, which is the custom, which is not the law. But you know what political instability is like with us, right now 126 is made. There is neither ideological nor programming nor any other principle. There's this so-called. It is probably based on the personal benefit of some who have considerable influence with their views on creating political life in the Republic of Serbia. So, the amendment was intended only to draw attention to you that it was wrong to place powers on functions, introduce control, and even control over what the government is doing, and not put it in the context of what is written in the Constitution – that the government corresponds to the National Assembly. The government corresponds to the National Assembly of four hours, when we start with parliamentary issues and with impellation, it responds to many things. But when the words "control" and "supervise" are put in place, then it means that we watch over them and control the individual legal acts they bring. We don't do it, nor are we authorized to do it. So don't devalue what's written in the Constitution. The government responds to the National Assembly - impelation, parliamentary issues, vote of confidence, vote of mistrust, choice, resolution, and not to quote any other possible forms when considering the government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35399	Five minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the complete lack of understanding of the essence of parliamentaryism is contained in Article 15 in Section 4. In the opinion of the promoters, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia only performs its representative role in two cases: when considering the presentations and proposals of citizens and when holding meetings with citizens and in the offices of the National Assembly outside the seat of the National Assembly. This is one full parliamentary nonsens. The National Assembly is a representative body, as it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and as it says in this bill. So everything the National Assembly does as a representative body, and that is all the representative function of the National Assembly. Mrs. Kolundjia, when we adopt and amend the Constitution, and when we decide to change the borders of the Republic of Serbia, and when we call a Republic referendum, and when we adopt a strategy of defence, and when we choose the Government, and when we receive citizens here and talk to them, that is, when we consider their performances and suggestions, we perform a representative function. It is the essence of parliament as a state body. You mechanically separated it, and then you have a constitutional and legislative function, so we have an electoral function, so we have a control function, and then, imagine, in the end, we have a representative function, which is reduced to two points, and in Article 2, we have defined the National Assembly as a representative body. Then we should have defined that the National Assembly is a constitutional and legislative body, so that we are an electoral body, so that we are a control body, so that we are only in fourth place, and a representative body. Well, of course not. So we are exclusively a representative body and through all these affairs we are doing in a political sense the same function, which is a representative function. Since Mrs Kolundzija today insisted that they consistently copied the Constitution, I must also show this article to the citizens of Serbia that this is not true. Article 15 in paragraph 3 states that the National Assembly performs a control function among other things by overseeing the government's work and deciding to suspend the government's mandate and ministers. So it's by Mrs. Kolundjia's control function of the National Assembly. And the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 99 says that the Assembly is exercising its electoral rights by choosing and resolving the government. Why didn't you rewrite it, Mrs. Kolundjia? One in Article 15, the other in Article 99. The Constitution, and here you are calling for you to literally rewrite the Constitution. No, you were cheating when you thought you should. When you felt you weren't supposed to prescribe, you were giving some of your own systems. It is simply amazing, when you take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and look at the responsibilities of the National Assembly under the Constitution and the responsibilities contained in Article 15. The bill of law is not identical! What you see as a control function is defined in the Constitution as an electoral function, and everything defined in the Constitution as a representative function, i.e. the representation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you mechanically separated it into a constitutional and legislative function, electoral function, control function, and then the last one, seems to you to be the least important, representative function. But, dear citizens, that's what happens when parliamentism and democracy are dealt with by people who fell asleep at night as communists, and in the morning they woke up as Democrats.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35401	A minute and fifty-four seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35402	If you really want to speak that language, you've fallen asleep as a non-democracy and haven't woken up yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35403	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35404	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, the SRS is proposing an amendment to Article 1 16 which provides for the Assembly to decide at its first session on confirming the mandate of MPs. We propose that this formula "determination of mandates" be replaced by a formula "recognises the validation of mandates". If the elections are conducted in accordance with the law, if the electoral lists have provided the names of the MPs, if the Republic Election Commission has issued confidence in the selection of MPs, then the Assembly has an imperative obligation, it must confirm the mandate of the MP. This cannot depend on the goodwill of the congregation or the congregation’s majority. However, in the formulation proposed by this draft law – the Assembly makes a decision to confirm the mandate – there is no imperative obligation. According to this solution, as I interpret it, the Assembly can confirm the mandate, and it doesn't have to confirm it. It makes a decision on this, and whether the decision will be positive or not, it is not clear. It all depends on the will of the congregation majority. In my opinion, it is not only inadmissible, but contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the electoral law. There are two much better solutions here than what the DS and the applicants of this bill have proposed. The first solution, as proposed by the amendment – the Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate. Another solution, perhaps the best – the Assembly confirms the mandates; without this "making a decision" and without this "consistencies", the National Assembly confirms the mandates of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35405	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35406	Sir, you're right. We were considering your amendment yesterday and we realized that you were right, but your formulation was not acceptable. We even tried to reach you on the phone and ask you to make amends. As we failed to contact you, today the Committee at the session intervened in that very sense. The Committee on Justice and Administration, by intervening in that spirit in paragraph 3, proposed that the words "determination of the mandate" be replaced by the words "confirms the mandates of the MPs". We appreciated what you were about to say, the way it was possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35407	Anyone else want a word? If not, the Board of Justice and Administration shall, on the basis of Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 16. This is the amendment that the proposing representative was just talking about. Basically, the amendment... Yes, it was accepted by the proposings and implies the formulation "confirms the mandates of the MPs". Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Sreto Peric and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are two reasons why the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 17. Just to remind you, Article 17 speaks of an oath to be made by elected Members of Parliament. The first reason is constitutional nature. The Constitution has accurately predicted which institutions and bodies are sworn in. Since the Law on the National Assembly falls within the sphere of public law, it is not possible to introduce new institutes unless it is already provided for in the Constitution. I must remind you that this right and that obligation under the Constitution has the President of the Republic. Article 114 of Article 3 states: "When the President of the Republic enters into office before the National Assembly, he swears: 'I swear that all my forces will commit to the preservation of the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of it, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the Constitution and law, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will securely and responsibly fulfil all my duties'. “ These are the words spoken by the President of the Republic of Serbia here before us, in front of the National Assembly, during his election. Is that how it is today, do Serbian citizens live in prosperity? Is Kosovo and Metohija, in the opinion of the president, that is, is the president sufficient to preserve the territory of the Republic of Serbia? You may not agree with me, but it is my responsibility that the President of the Republic of Serbia does not respect this oath he has made. And the Government has an obligation to take an oath under Article 128(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 17 states that MPs should take an oath, which reads: "I swear that I will perform the duty of the MP of the people's Parliament in a committed, fair, safe and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil freedoms and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice by my best knowledge and skill." To serve truth and justice. This is compared to the previous text, which refers to the President of the Republic, incomparably and in quality, and if it does not respect the President of the Republic and does not oblige it, then what do we expect to motivate the MPs who take such an oath? Just to remind you that a number of MPs, who had done so before, had sworn an oath in the church, so he did not respect it. What will bind him to these words, which are neither precise enough, nor clear enough? These are some concepts that are not sufficiently defined. In the end, will this congregation be obliged to take an oath after the law has come into force? The best solution is to accept the amendment of the SRS and this Article 17. to delete, if for nothing else, and because there is no constitutional possibility of establishing that category, or oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35409	One minute and twenty-nine seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35410	Ladies and gentlemen, I have reported on the amendment to the Serbian Progressive Party, which requires that this member of the law be deleted, which would be required to remove an oath by MPs when confirming his mandate. What's left, that's an explanation. I expected that they would now make all these arguments that made this necessary. Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, none of them are in the mood for a similar story. I don't know if Cirko went by in the meantime, so he told them not to talk, but my opinion is that it's mostly because there are persons in that parliamentary group who have come up with an oath laid down in a church. I'll remind you of some words of those oaths. They swore in church, before God, that they would respect the will of the Central Fatherland administration of the Serbian Radical Party. These are the words of the oath: “I swear as a people's messenger, swear by the almighty God, by my Orthodox faith, by my name and by my honor, by the glory of my ancestors and by the future of my descendants, by my parliamentary mandate, at all times I will have the central Fatherland administration of the Serbian Radical Party, and by its will I will obey unconditionally. As I have observed and fulfilled this oath, so God has helped me. ” I'll just say, about that, it's been happening to us both in previous years and in previous terms to have someone else steal and buy us some MPs. One such case occurred in 2005, sometime in early April of the month. Then Mr. Bogoljub Karic bought a non-essential gentleman, Živadin Lekic, and Tomislav Nikolic reacted quite strongly to it at the time. He said the mandates must belong to the parties. One of the arguments he used says like this – if one of the 250 MPs dies tomorrow, whose mandate is that? Because if it is his mandate, could he prescribe it to his son, could his wife, a wife, or a husband, a wife in the congregation, replace him? Then why do they address me as the bearer of the list to give me a new name? How did I get this right? Here, our MP died tragically three months ago, and they came to me to give my term. So the mandate belongs to the MP in some circumstances, and it belongs to Tomislav Nikolic under other circumstances. How can circumstances determine who the mandate belongs to? I guess we don't pay attention to the circumstances, we pay attention to the election results. That's what the Constitutional Court won't be able to explain to anyone. This is what Tomislav Nikolic today, with positions at which the Constitutional Court was then, cannot explain. Commenting on that, he said, the unfortunate one, who switched to another party, said it was completely irrelevant. He says this (this came out in the newspaper "Today" on 19 May 2005): "The garbage usually goes into the trash can." With Mr. Nikolic, I must say, I couldn't agree more. He said one more thing about the gentleman who stole the mandate: "He did not sign a blank resignation, but swore in the church that his mandate belonged to the Serbian Radical Party, so let him now think about his children, family and grandchildren. “ I have to agree with Mr. Nikolic, but I must also say that after such devising, it is much more serious oaths, laid before God in church, that we really have no substance to discuss with such people whether any lay oath can come into consideration and have any value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35411	Four minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 17th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to article 17. For today, we end the search in detail on amendments to the Bill on the National Assembly. I set a break until 4:00 p.m. when, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a session of parliamentary issues will begin by entering the Prime Minister and members of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35412	Dear Members of Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 200(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked: the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a particular minister or government, from their jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 199(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary issue must be clearly formulated, and the presentation of the MP asking questions cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly shall warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, which is in accordance with Article 201(1). Also, according to Article 202. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is in accordance with Article 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for asking questions if they have not already done so. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice so far, that the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, then MPs from the least to the largest group of MPs. Now we'll move on to asking MPs questions. I give my word to the PUPS representative, if he has any questions. No, there isn't. ) A group of minority MPs, do they have any questions? No, I don't. ) New Serbia's MP group, do you have any questions? Yes, you do. Here you go. No questions? Thank you. Mr. Markicevic has a question, though? Mr. Markicevic? Mr Markicevic asked us to give the word first to LDP MPs. Do LDP MPs have any questions? Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35413	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Cvetkovic, respected ministers and ministers, it is important for us that you come to parliament today because we think, even if we from the Liberal Democratic Party, that it is not a good country where the government stands or from a distance, it observes key political processes. We will easily agree with one of your priorities, which is related to economic policy. In that area, the government was quite active. Mr. Cvetkovic, we cannot agree with the government's ambition to run a new economic policy in an inherited and wrong system. That is why I first want to tell you that we absolutely support the government in the fight against corruption and crime, not because we are a party that does it because it provides support at Belgrade level, but because we think that we cannot change Serbia if we tolerate what is wrong and wrong in it. But that is why we are interested in what will the government do in order to first start dealing with corrupt politicians and criminal policy in Serbia and then corrupt politicians and criminal policy in the region? That's why it's very important for us, and I'll tell you why it's inexplicably connected to the economy. The question is, did the government do anything, did you, as Prime Minister, ask for it... Now there's the Justice Minister, although it's not formally her jurisdiction. Have you done anything to determine the responsibility of those who allowed criminals to become citizens of Serbia without any problems? I mean, the Charic Brothers drug cartel case, everything that marks the last few weeks of our political life in the country. Every line in public life is unimaginable in the last weeks without mentioning that drug cartel. We do not understand this great silence on the political background of the circumstances for every conviction, the circumstances that describe Serbia as a country where at one point it was possible to do what was not possible in the country of origin – become a citizen, become the owner of large assets, compromise privatisation, hence private initiatives, and face the country with the problems it faces today. At the same time, we have criticised economic policy so many times just because it was not ready for economic opportunities to change in the country by changing the political circumstances in which we live. Tell me, Mr. Cvetkovic, is Srebrenica a genocide for you, a serious crime, an event from the past that has remained our legacy, so we don't know what to do with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35414	Time. You'll have the opportunity. It's a pretty clear question. It's been three minutes. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35415	Dear People's MPs, first I'd like to welcome you and express my pleasure to see you after a few months of break. And like the speaker who was before me, I mean it's very good that this kind of dialogue goes on and on, to see what the government is doing, what's not doing right, what's doing good, and in what direction it should be leading its policy further. I didn't quite understand if the question was about Srebrenica, since the argument was about corruption, so since there will be questions, I will answer for corruption, and then you can go through the sub-questions, if it's about Srebrenica. First of all, I think there is a big substitute for the thesis or misunderstanding of what it is to fight corruption, and what it is to fight corrupt people. When it comes to criminals, when it comes to people who have committed an act, it's a fight against corrupt people, so it's against individuals. In a systematic sense, the fight is dealt with by competent authorities such as police, then services dealing with information. In that sense, when you look at what this government has done, I think you will very rarely find a man who can say that the previous governments there have been more active than we have, because you have practically on a daily basis that a group for this has been arrested for it. I think it's doubtless that here, when it comes to fighting corrupt people, there's a key shift in that direction. When it comes to the fight against corruption, which is one of the government's top priorities, then corruption essentially implies a systemic basis for people to have some kind of opportunity to enter the list of corrupt people. It's something else, and in this sense we're fighting through the reform of the system. Both fighting and fighting against corrupt people and against corruption is a struggle that will continue. If you're asking me if I'm satisfied, of course I'm not. Could more corrupt people have been discovered – of course it could. Could there have been more reforms? Of course it could have. But what makes me calm is that when we look at where we are now and where we were a year or two ago, then we can see that a key shift has been made. And if we continue with these steps, in some foreseeable future we could be much calmer and much better valued on that scale. As for, specifically, giving citizenship to Saric, if I understand you correctly, you say he was corrupt even before he was given citizenship. Maybe that's true. I don't have that information. Honestly, I can tell you that I heard about him and that family a few months ago. Before that, I didn't even know they existed. I think that just hearing about them and having a big activity started should serve in some sense to the government to have something to brag about what she did in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35416	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like to comment, Mr Jovanovic, or make a statement about the answer? You're entitled to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35417	Of course I do. I'll try to be more clear if you don't understand me, Mr. Cvetkovic. We fully agree with your finding that, in normal societies, individual cases of corruption and crime are resolved by competent institutions. If there are any serious anomalies, then it deals with the system, by coming to parliament, asking for support for some special law and it is in itself absolutely acceptable to us and all the laws that were directed in that direction we supported. I'm trying to tell you something else. It is not normal for us, Mr Cvetkovic, that we, as a society in the focus of our daily action, put the criminal structure of another country in focus, which we are thus experiencing, and do not question the structure of our own state. For us, a very important question is certainly more important than where Saric is today, the question of how he became a citizen of this country in the first place. I'll tell you why, since you're not involved in politics, you're an economist, you've never had political ambition – because in the root of every problem is our country's criminal past, a policy that has been achieved by criminal means. We are now criminalizing the neighbouring state through daily accusations, not to question the responsibility of those who have brought us into such a position. How will Mr. Mrkonjic implement the privatisation project of Luke Bar if the main people, according to our experience and definition, are closely linked to corruption and crime by neighbouring Montenegro? Did you give up on that project, Mr. Grouchy, or not? How will Mr Dinkic conduct privatisation in the country if every man who entered that privatisation is suspicious of criminals who have been allowed to do so unhindered? In 2001 we adopted the best Privatisation Act that was possible and realistic in the given conditions, based on experience of Czech privatisation, the Russian privatisation model, and this law was well applied. We began to face problems after the collapse of the government of Zoran Djindjic, 2004, 2005, 2006. We can't ignore that. That's why it's a very important policy to deal with causes, not consequences. You don't have to know about Sharic. A lot of people didn't know. Those who have a job to know and how they knew what it was about. They knew very well why they gave citizenship to such people. I think it is our duty for us as parliament to discuss this seriously. Not to start national journals with information about the Security Committee's session in Montenegro, but about our sessions. When we open this issue completely, when we see what the political background of the clan is, then we will see the link between that political background and that political background that is never enlightened, and I am talking about the 12th March and the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in 2003. Why does it matter? Because that is the only way we can build a credible state, a state that will not face the humiliations we face today. We agreed to privatise NIS because we were guaranteed that our society would benefit from it. Now we're paying the price of the Duke's gas; the Duke's gas has the price as if it's imported from Russia. We're paying for the most expensive gas in the region, the most expensive gas. In doing so, we know very well that it is slipping through our fingers "South Stream" and that this project today is more than uncertain due to political changes in Ukraine and Ukraine's ambition to allow the privatisation of its energy system, which was the condition of Russia before the project "South Stream" began. It's something we need to talk about and what we need to focus on. That's why we come up with this paradoxical data that negotiations with the IMF are so compromising that the Deputy Prime Minister comes out with one piece of information, and then the IMF is denying it. For that reason, Mr Cvetkovic, I also ask you about Saric, Srebrenica, the privatisation of NIS, because all this is about the structural weakness of your policy. Give us a vision. Your defence minister comes out, NATO mentions. After that, there's been a campaign against your government for seven days. Who's running that campaign? Who's behind all this? Who are those who criminalize today's ruling policy? Who cares? That's what we want to talk about. What are the interests? We are told by a minister from one of the ruling coalition's parties that there are informal power centres, which are tearing down one party of the ruling coalition. What are those centers? With what kind of interests? There's an open question for Srebrenica. It wasn't us who opened it, as an opposition, it was the president of the state. Today, we see that this question has gone into another plan, which first of all speaks of the inability of the ruling majority to change the country substantially. We don't like it, because we're not interested in Serbia changing by failing, but by changing in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35418	Time. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35419	Mr. People's Parliament, you've raised a number of questions, each of which is important to itself. I really wish that if we wanted to hear the answers to the questions, we could start one thing and hear the answer, then another, and when we hear the answer, we could start the third. You've raised at least three or four key questions here, and these are Sharici, IMF, Luka Bar, I don't know what you're... Srebrenica, etc. If I have one question to answer, and I believe that these questions may be restarted, I would choose to answer the question that is closest to my profession, which is the question of relations with the International Monetary Fund. When it comes to the IMF, the public was quite wrongly informed before the IMF mission arrived that the government allegedly violated the agreements it had reached, that it exceeded the amounts foreseen for the profits, etc. That information, transmitted by all the media, including some that you think are under the control of the state, although I don't know who they are, has been placed skillfully and continuously, so before the IMF came, there was a sense of uncertainty about how it would all end. But none of it was true. Talks with the IMF were collegiate; talks with the IMF were peaceful; talks with the IMF were on platforms that had been agreed earlier. In the end, you had the opportunity to hear and see that they realized that what happened in Serbia was at all points or the same, and at many points better than what was expected. The mission was completed by a joint statement and both sides left quite relaxed from there. He's trying to create again in public some story that it was like that anyway, but we didn't exactly agree on everything, etc. I'd like to give the information that's true now, so people know what it's really about. So we stuck to all agreed parameters until the moment the IMF came. We still have that program, which is on the table, and it's being realized. The issue of pensions and pension reform, which was on the table, has two parts. One part is so-called. Parameterally and that part was fully accepted by the IMF. The second part is the issue of harmonising pensions in the next period. That's where we considered the option that was on the previous mission, and we put it on the table and the option that appeared to be interesting in this mission. This option basically means binding salaries from the public sector to pensions, so that while relatively low growth rates, pensioners and public sector employees would still share a common destiny. I've heard some economists comment on paying in the public sector grow faster, so this is a bad variant. However, it should not be forgotten that public sector salaries are essentially under state control. The commitment to public sector salaries is giving the Government an instrument that will be able to run an adequate economic policy. Salaries outside the public sector are not under state control. So they're determined by private owners, and there's this element of uncertainty. We are, of course, still working on it, determining the definition of what a public sector is, whether public enterprises are entering or not. Certainly, the IMF mission has gone without any problems and with mutual satisfaction, both our sides and the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35420	Thank you. Mr Jovanovic has the right to comment on the answer, i.e. to make a statement about the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35421	There's nothing special to comment on from what Mr. Cvetkovic said. He said what was right for him, and he avoided talking about everything I was interested in. Mr. Cvetkovic, you are the leader of this country. As Prime Minister, you are the leader of this country. You may be a successful leader if you make peace with that fact. If you deny that fact, you will surely fail. The nature of these relationships is the consequence of the regulations they are governed by. It would be nice to ask you one question, then Minister Sutanovci the other, then the Minister of Health, the third, but this sort of arranged parliament does not allow. We fought for such a congregation, you narrowed it down. That's why I asked you as the leader of this country -- how do you think you can be successful by pointing to a whole series of problems, without a clear strategy? We fall asleep, we're in conflict with our intentions and ambitions. We have applied for EU membership. We have shown this desire ourselves, and we show so many inner weaknesses in the same address where this ambition is formulated – in the ruling coalition – and that we are concerned about the realization of such a commitment. You know, we don't build our relationships with you as other parties. Just because you're the government for us doesn't mean that we're obliged to be against everything you do, just as we're not obliged to support those who are also in opposition. I think we all know that some of your initiatives are closer to us than the initiatives of the rest of the parties that are not in power. That is why I have shown you, your intention to create a modern European country from Serbia, without answering the questions that have raised life in the last few weeks, is invaluable. Until we get an answer to the political background issue of drug lord Saric here in Serbia, as the country's weakness, ambition will be interpreted to ask Montenegro. While we do not have the strength to answer the initiative we have launched ourselves, which is an initiative on the Srebrenica resolution, our weakness will be the fact that we are avoiding the debate on this issue, that we do not have the strength to release this country of responsibility that follows each of us because it is not possible for us to point out the differences between us and those who killed in Srebrenica in 1995. The International Monetary Fund, here is just one quote: "We have agreed with the IMF delegation that pension growth from April 2011 will be conditioned by price growth in the public sector," and then the IMF delegation's excuse: "We delayed the agreement on this issue for May". If we see these differences in every segment of your operation, then this country is in trouble. So tell us your strategy, economic, foreign policy, internal. How do we get to the trustee of equality if we ignore the civil sector, and he put it on the table himself and put it in front of our public long before it became a condition for European integration, etc.? When we have a different organised parliament, we will be able to ask each of the ministers questions. Here are a few elements: the price of gas we pay, Dinkic did not vote here in parliament, as we do. Do we have the right to give the Serbian public an answer to the question why do we pay domestic gas at the import price? Have you responded to changes that fully relativise the "South Stream" as a project and delay it for the distant future, at this point? He'll probably be just another colorful lie and a story like many others - good but unrealised.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35422	Thank you. If you want, just sign in. The MP's last commentary. You have no word, Mr. President. Mr. Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35423	May I have your attention, please? Mr. President, I am extremely pleased to ask you a few questions, which are extremely important at this time for Serbia. The first question - is it true, and it is true, but I want to hear from some government representative how is it possible that someone assigned a job to a Nuba Invest company to set up optical cables in Corridor 10, travel corridors, and that the works are currently under way? How is it possible for this to happen without a tender and for the carrier of the whole activity to be one of the Slovenian tycoons; that, the next day after the submission, Minister Dulic has given the order to the companies to give the papers, which can be seen in the documentation; that the works are currently being carried out on corridors, that the optical cable is being implanted? The value of the investment is 25,000,000 euros, the investment is paid in nine months, and profit from the use of optical cables is 450,000 euros per year. Is it possible that one such natural resource could be sold into depravity, to people on the side? Who did this and why wasn't there a tender for such a job? Number two, is it true, and I repeat, is it true that "Yugobanka", as founder of "Zagrebačka Banka", invested the funds here in the documentation I have the exact figures, the Croats who brought these papers say it was over 2.2 billion euros, and that in the privatisation of the Croatian bank, the court of Zagreb addressed the Republic of Serbia's property Directorate, and the Directorate put it in the drawer and did not react? And the deputy attorney general wrote the answer that we're not interested in it. It's signed by the lady, now I'm going to tell you her name, she's the deputy attorney, three days before they hand over those governments to this government. (President: Time. I thank you) The Department of Justice has asked and done so...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35424	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Later you'll have more options, now time's up. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35425	I will try to give a brief answer to these questions, as there is one specific similarity between these issues and the issues related to Saric. We're attached to some events that occurred at times when this government wasn't formed and now we're in a position to fix what happened. The difference between me and some MPs is that I think that we should look to be as good as possible and be more transparent every day, not going back and moaning over what was there. In particular, as for Saric, he was granted citizenship on 30 May 2005, so if you ask me why he was given citizenship, I can tell you that I was working completely outside the state sector at the time. I didn't know who Saric was, and I didn't care who his citizenship was. "Yugobanka" went into bankruptcy six or seven years ago, and "Jubank", which was the second bank, was privatised several years ago. If they've funded something, given, etc., if you have that information, I think it's very good, you pack it up nicely and send it to the authorities, and let's make this country better than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35426	Thank you. Mr. Mrkonjic also wants to answer a part of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35427	I don't want to supplement the Prime Minister, the man answered everything nicely, but I feel a commitment because it's probably a part of my portfolio that's about these cables. I'm asking MP Ilic to be patient by Monday, he'll get a written reply, right in detail, I've written down all the details now. Thank you very much, I'm counting on your correctness.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35428	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35429	I thank Mr. Mrkonjic for giving a written answer. However, Mr. President, in your mind only Saric, I did not mention Saric, but Dulic. So, Oliver Dulic, the space planning minister, gave consent. I ask the question – how is it possible, I repeat, to do it without a tender? Because sometimes a decision has been made in the government that it will be the biggest resource for additional rail revenues and the "Serb Road" to use the natural resources of the Corridor and to rent, issue and to give it to businesses rather than to tycoons that they earn so much money, completely free of charge and without any tender to get a job. The second question, as far as the banks are concerned, is all the papers here. The lady who said she wasn't interested and who answered that... The Croats have informed us that we own almost a million shares in Zagreb Bank. Those shares are placed on private accounts, which are coded. I'm interested in whose codes are these, who's behind these codes, what actually happened and how is it possible that one state isn't interested in that kind of money and so many shares that are being shared? Mr. President, I can provide you with complete documentation, which you can look at, examine and see what this is about, both for the first and second questions, names, last names, companies and everything else. I'd be happy to get a written answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35430	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35431	Just a brief comment. You didn't say – Dulic, but you said – how is it possible that someone did something. For me, "someone" is unclear. Now I understand who this "someone" is, in your opinion. Of course, if an offence is committed, I fully support the procedure. I'd like to ask you not to submit all the documentation you have to me, but to the competent authorities involved, because I'm not involved in the investigation of the affair. As for the first part, you will already receive information, as Minister Mrkonjic said. When it comes to "Yugobanks", I just want to remind you once again that "Yugobanka" is in bankruptcy and all its assets represent bankruptcy. Therefore, the thing is already under a certain process, which is in court. If you were able to find some bankruptcy mass that the bankruptcy manager didn't know about, it would be valuable for us to take that mass; not us, but the South Bank's creditors. I encourage you to come out with that paperwork.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35432	Would you like to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35433	As for "Yugobanke" and "Zagrebačka Banka", it refers to 2008, when you were the finance minister. So I'll give you the paperwork, Mr. President. I'm glad Mr. Mrkonjic will consider the situation. Don't let them get into your vault and do whatever they want to do to you, put it under control. We believe in you that you will do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35434	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35435	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister of Government, I would like to join the issue asked by the first colleague to ask you today, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. I could have said, say, and an MP who has a more expensive watch on his hand than I have a car, and he has less mandates in this House than I do. On the other hand, since his question is about the fight against crime and corruption at the moment and about who stands and whether there are political backgrounds in this case at all, I am joining that part of the issue and now I am going to ask you a few questions. So I'm talking about Saric, who's on the run, I'm not talking about Dulic. I don't know if he's on the run or not. I want to ask you a few questions. I'm sorry Minister Dacic isn't here. I wouldn't ask you those questions. President, I'm here. I'm not at the gallery. I'm going to ask you two questions first, and then based on your answer to those two questions, I'm going to keep talking to you further. When did Serbia's MUP start operating processing of the Saric clan, and did Darko Saric, when he received a new ID card in Serbia, also receive a passport?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35436	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35437	As far as the first question is concerned, when operational processing is started, I'm not sure if that's exactly the information you can talk about, so I'd leave it for some closed part about how it went. By the way, I don't know it personally, and even if I did, I shouldn't tell you. As for this second one, you could help this parliament and say that Saric has won citizenship. I can tell you that he got his ID and passport based on that citizenship he received on May 30, 2005, and I'd like to ask you to explain how he got his citizenship on that date. (Dear Shormaz, from the place, can I have a word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35438	Mr. Shormaz, I would still like to give you a notice, given that you are obviously interested in the Secretary of the Interior's portfolio. Mr. Ivica Dacic is in Ukraine, has very important state obligations. Mrs. Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35439	I would like to supplement the Prime Minister and say that it would be very unserious if the public were to be presented the moments when the operational hearings started or when the prosecution began to deal with the case of Saric and all other cases. I also want to remind you, as well as the public of Serbia, of the results of police dealings, BIA and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime in the Saric case, which is seized about three tons of cocaine, which represents one of the biggest seizures not only in Serbia but also in the world. It is something that represents a picture of Serbia and it proves what the Government of the Republic of Serbia was doing when it was founded in July 2008 and put it into its priorities, which is the fight against organised crime and corruption. As far as citizenship itself is concerned, we can ask the same question, given that under the 2004 law, there was the possibility that the then Ministry of Interior, based on an assessment, would refuse to grant citizenship to certain persons, if the country's security was compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35440	Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35441	I don't think you should have applauded, and now you'll see why. First, the Saric brothers' operating process was written by the media, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Justice, back in 2004, and that's a public matter. Their operation began in 2004 in Serbia, they lived in Pljevlje. On the other hand, even though they lived in Pljevi and their residence was in Pljevi, I will remind you, gentlemen, that it was a state community, that we were one state and that there was enough change of residence to get citizenship, too, by law. That's another thing. There was never a obligation to verify security, because security checks as legal obligations were introduced by the Citizenship Act, which we adopted together when Serbia became an independent state. The law later provides for a security check by the BIA. She didn't exist before that. I see a colleague who has a more expensive watch than I car didn't know that, so he asked a question, but now he's got the answer. There was no need at all. Saric received a new ID card in January 2009, Prime Minister, and there is no photo from that ID card in any newspaper, but older. Why is that? We have more questions. Do you know he's been arrested... Speaking of these successes, of course there has been success since 2004 because they have been operationally monitored; of course there has been success, and in the end, thanks to BIA's information, there has been three tons of cocaine seized on the other continent. They existed on the list of organised crime in Serbia and there too (Mr Dacic would have, if he had confirmed it here), what you said, the minister -- if they were supported by some structures in Montenegro. The result of the work was also a public matter -- an arrested brother from Uncle Dark Saric on July 1st 2007 at the In Hotel in Belgrade, with 20kg of heroin, four cars, a large amount of money. So the fight was against them before, not in this way as it is now spoken; they were arrested, they were not fleeing and now some of them are in prison because of it. I have the next question, now that you've got all this information. "Metals Bank", Prime Minister, owned by Ananias Pavicevic, was sold to the AP Vojvodina, of course. Can you answer me the question of who "Metals Bank" was, until it was sold, connected business, who had deposited money in it? I mean state institutions, I don't mean private capital. Did the bank participate in the purchase of the land now spoken of, in connection with the activities of the drug lord Darko Saric, who was mentioned here and who bought the land around Vojvodina? Is this bank involved in these affairs and who it was related to and is it involved in these affairs? That's my next question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35442	The word has Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35443	As a citizen of Serbia and as a minister of justice, I would be very happy that the processing of this drug cartel or someone else started in 2004, because this would not result in the assets they now possess, estimated at dozens or hundreds of million euros. Among the assets seized by the Department of Property Abduction yesterday is a discotheque in the center of Kragujevac, where the building was once protected, a monument of culture. I wish that was when it was seriously done on the subject of that drug cartel. I believe we would not have acquired all that property they now have and I believe that in further work, in financial investigations, all of their assets will be discovered. As for their connection to the Metals Bank and any other company, if anyone told you at this time, they would give away an official secret because an investigation is being conducted, which is a secret under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35444	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35445	I thought the Prime Minister would answer, but fine. You're talking about something in the paper. See "Today" – "Balkan Warrior" action, these are Sarici, and do you know what the "Memfis" action is? That's Anton Canaj. Since you don't know who the Metals Bank was connected to, do you know that the Vojvodina Guarantee Fund was in that bank, the provincial Secretariat had deposited money at the Metals Bank, the Vojvodina Development Fund and the Capital Investment Fund? By the way, everyone's boss is Bojan Pajtic, chairman of the board of directors, etc. Later, they buy "Metals Bank" from the concerned Pavicevic and plan to build a Vojvodina development bank, which is contrary to the law. Otherwise, during all this time, the bank has been co-operating with the first Montenegrin bank, Ace Djukanovic. You probably talked about it with a minister in Montenegro today. Do you know that through this bank, a Montenegrin businessman, owner of Rockspeda, was arrested in 2007, Anton Canaj, bought more than 50 companies in Vojvodina, and received false guarantees from that bank? It's a Memphis action, which is why he was arrested. Speaking of fighting crime and corruption, I'm talking about the arrested -- I said who Saric was arrested, I'm talking about who's been arrested now, and you're talking about those who are on the run and where the Uruguayan police seized cocaine. The arrest was made abruptly in the second half of 2008, gentlemen. In the second half of 2008, I repeat. Dosto Saric buys the same property quickly, obviously not to be seized, as you say, buys the same property, that same country through people like Mile Jerkovic, Zoran Ćopić Ćopa, etc. But what else is interesting? Why am I sorry the minister of police isn't here? If we see who is connected and who is involved with this bank, and we are talking about the connection, whether there is a political background, we are very interested in whether there is a political background, because he bought the country through people and the bank, where Bojan Pajtic held practically all the money, and yet he is connected to Ace Djukanovic's brother and his bank. So, when we see all of this, is it true that Mile Jerkovic, written about it by the media, mentioned to the police in a statement by Bata Djurovic, the current chief of UBOPK? That may answer in writing to me Mr. Dacic. Did he mention, the media also wrote about it, Mr. Lazarevic's chief of staff in his office? Also, I have to say that Bata Djurovic, who, before being appointed chief of UBOPK, was the secretary of security, or as it is already called, in the Football Federation of Serbia, means he took care of security at the matches bound to our team and was a good friend with Terzic, a gentleman who is still wanted in connection with the football mob, who is on the run, as well as Saric... Do you know what's interesting? Terzic is on the run, the Football Federation of Serbia... Bata Djurovic, about him, is making a statement to the police, that will be confirmed by Dacic, and we are talking about a political background, whether there is one or not, and one and the other are from Pljevlja, and Sarići are from Pljevlja, and the owner of "Rokspeda" is from Pljevlja. So the political background clearly exists. I think you're partly on track that a political background exists in Montenegro, right, but the political background clearly exists in Serbia. It is obvious that these people are using that money to buy land and businesses right after Vojvodina, which could be Serbia's next neural point. These questions I've asked are not naive at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35446	Your time for a statement of response is over. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35447	I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Cvetkovic, I would like to ask if you are familiar with the proportions of crime that exists in the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, more specifically in the anti-urban protection sector. For years, it has been said and said that it is about abuse of position, that it is about major crime and that it is about corruption. Mr. Cvetkovic, I know that the workers of this office have recently sent you some letters and that these letters went to several addresses. I also know that the vast majority of the workers of this office are professionals and that they are honest people, but it is through these letters that they want to cover up several management people from this sector, who have been damaging Serbia's budget for years and Serbia's state resources to fill their own pockets. I also know, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you were in front of the government, whether last year, you appointed as the assistant director of the sector as one of the executives. I don't just know how much government support he has. Since I expect you to answer this now, if you can, but especially to respond to this in writing, I will only list some of the elements, so that the other MPs can see the extent of the crime and abuse situation. The first is related to the procurement of “gematronic” radar, which was purchased in Germany since 1996, which have never worked properly; never has the documentation for these radars arrived at the Institute and is in private possession, and private and radar repairs using the work and services of the Faculty of Electronics in Nis. The second segment is anti-urban missiles. There are three anti-urban missile manufacturers in Serbia: "Tral" Kruševac, "Polyester" Priboj and "Krusik" Valjevo. It would be normal, Mr. Cvetkovic, to call a tender every year for the purchase of as many missiles as we need for the anti-building equipment. This year, a procedure was conducted to acquire 4,500 missiles and control the defence ministry. However, the purchase of these missiles was carried out by direct agreement in four eyes. Today at the warehouse of this sector, without any contract and without any approval, there are already 3,000 missiles.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35448	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35449	In response to one of the previous questions, I tried to make a distinction between fighting crime and corruption and fighting corrupt people. In doing so, I said that the government, or I personally do not deal with the fight against corrupt people, but that it is done by the police, and we are fighting crime and corruption in a systematic way. You mentioned that you have information about a series of corrupt people. Of course I am, just like you, against those corrupt people. I invite you to hand over all this information to the police; when she reads it, if it comes to the conclusion that there's something there, she'll run it. As far as this second question is concerned, this is already something worth looking at, which is whether the procurement is done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act or not. I promise you, as long as I determine and initiate the proceedings tomorrow, if those regulations are violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35450	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35451	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, I'd like to point to two more cases relating to this sector. Many in this hall are not aware that there is a unique system of Serbia and Republika Srpska's anti-building defence. I suggest, Mr. President, that the contract under which it is being re-examined, because how is it possible, with the anti-building defence of Republika Srpska, Zoran Babic, now head of anti-building protection of the Republic of Serbia, with Mr. Djordje Kardum, who is the recent assistant director? Then, to examine how anti-civil protection missiles of Republika Srpska are being purchased and whether these are the same rockets Serbia has acquired for its own purposes. The workers of our institute are going to Republika Srpska, while they are being written here for days off. In five months of 2009, they managed to make 7,500 days off. One more thing, Mr. President, in July of the month, I think you were supposed to have that report, an independent commission reviewed the radar centers. It was found that 430 devices, antennas and links were installed in these radar centres. Of which, only 20% is in office for the needs of the Institute, 15% for the needs of other contract users, primarily the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, 65% of installed devices do not have any legal basis. These devices use electricity, use state resources, and these are devices used by various providers, which and how they charge their services. The figures of several million or even a few dozen million euros are being talked. Also, Mr. President, I want to tell you that not all radar centres have succumbed to corruption. For example, above Vranja, there are no devices set on Mount Kukavica without legal basis, but that is why the Niš radar centres, Kruševac, Bešnja, Užice, Bukulja and Valjevo have 80% of the devices that are installed and used without legal basis, and the money from using these devices goes into private pockets, and only a few people from the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35452	Mr. Cvetkovic, please. You won't? Okay. The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35453	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, honourable Prime Minister and members of the government, I think this is a good opportunity and that your presence will help us raise the reputation of Parliament much more than our struggle to somehow fight through Parliament law for a more specific position of the National Assembly. I wanted to ask the Minister of Energy. However, since you, as Prime Minister, were present yesterday at this international energy security summit in Budapest, I think it is good that as MPs, we get some information on how and how dynamic the implementation of the South Stream project will go, which is indeed of strategic importance for our country. When we voted on it in the Assembly, there were different discussions, different positions. I believe that the MPs who supported it and the MPs who had certain doubts about the realisation did so from the deepest and best intentions, but when the job was already completed and accepted, I think that the obligation of all of us, both MPs and the Government, to fight for the project, because it is very important that the South Stream project, once we have already made that agreement, is realised and to pass through Serbia. Your statement after the meeting was encouraging. I want to say what our media have not transmitted, which is that on the initiative of our delegation in that declaration, it seems to me that that was the case, the initiative that "South Stream" was part of a common energy and security project in Europe, although during the conference clearly made a stronger impression on the idea... In addition, Mr Tanaka, president of the International Energy Agency, said that in his view it is better to play the Nabucco project map because it would allow Europe to supply gas without major dependence on Russia. I think it is important for us that the project "South Stream" be implemented to the end. I think we should all make a contribution to that together. I just wanted you to share with us the impressions of whether you think these things are moving in that projected direction, maybe we can expect some problems. Because if there are any delays and problems, it's better for all of us to face potential problems as soon as possible than to push them under the carpet. Now it's not about turning back, how it happened. This is the topic, and we're all looking at the future together -- what can we all do together to make this project that we've already signed... how diplomatic, economic, military we can lobby and make it a project that will be included in this energy network of Europe, because political changes in Ukraine, but also political changes that have taken place in Bulgaria, I think, can, to some extent, slow down this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35454	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35455	I'll give you one summary of what happened at yesterday's conference in Budapest. Your question was predominantly referred to "South Stream", but the conference did not deal with "South Stream". It is in one piece, you are properly informed, on our proposal it entered into the declaration. I'll talk about that later. However, the conference had a much wider task, and the task was to consider joint planning and security strategy for the countries of Central, Eastern and Southeast Europe. As a result of that conference, there were about three ideas, which were like the backbones of all those discussions and adopted. One thing is that for all these countries that I have mentioned it is important to provide a diversification of the energy supply source, that is, not only depends on one source. We had a negative experience when we depended on a single source – when there was a problem in Ukraine we found ourselves in a very difficult situation. Another idea was the idea of building infrastructure, not so common, as the connection between the infrastructures that would be like a network throughout this region and in all countries. It would actually allow you to have alternative supply routes, so if any of the routes are scheduled, you can order energy from another direction. The third conclusion is actually derived from these first two. If you have a diversification of the source, if you have a common infrastructure (conditionally common, to say - unique), then de facto you can create one mini regional energy market, where they compete with each other through different sources and different supply options, which, of course, is for the benefit of consumers, which goes better. So that was the backbone and that was what we were talking about. The declaration itself did not deal with any project, but two or three projects were mentioned in one article, among which there was no "South Stream". We said then that we would like the "South Stream" to enter that document, we said – if you do not think it is important for you, we would be willing to write that it is important for Serbia, because it is important for us. When we made this proposal he was accepted, but more than that – not only was he accepted, but some other countries joined us, and then the text appeared that "South Stream" is important for Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary, Slovenia joined, I can't remember whether Croatia, etc. Anyway, it entered the document, with the support of several countries, so we had the opportunity to practically adopt this important document unanimously. The document is a program character and deals with these problems I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35456	Thank you. Mr. Petar Skundric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35457	A few words about the question. Dear People's MPs, I would like to say that all activities related to the implementation of the South Stream project are being implemented as planned, when it comes to the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the implementation of this pan-European project. Why do I say pan-European project? Because eleven or twelve European states are involved in the implementation of this project. This is not a bilateral project between Serbia and the Russian Federation, but rather a large number of European countries that have signed similar or similar arrangements as we with the Russian Federation, as regards the implementation of the project "South Stream". Independent of the South Stream project, we implement a plan, a national gasification plan of the Republic of Serbia and provide all the necessary conditions to have high energy stability or security in relation to Serbia's supply to this noble energy. In that sense, we have decided to access the construction of the new underground gas storage plant, the underground gas storage plant "Banatski Dvor". The first stage is practically over. A joint venture is formed with a strategic partner, Gazprom, and all conditions have been created to access the realization of the second phase of reaching the desired capacity of eight hundred million square metres of cubic natural gas in the warehouse. In addition to this job that is related to the second natural gas storage facility, which will be financed from the loans approved by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, under very favourable or most favourable conditions, we have also talked to the Slovak state and Slovak companies about building another gas storage facility. Normally, decisions will be made in accordance with the procedures that apply in our laws. We are accessing interactions with neighbouring countries to make our network fully part of the integrated network in this part of Europe or to integrate fully into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35458	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly in recent days, one of the most important issues in the public was this very affair with the Saric brothers. There has been a lot of talk about an investigation into the origin of the property, about the confiscation of that property, but I think it is certainly one of the most interesting aspects of the whole story exactly the link between the Saric brothers and the political parties. Because it is clear that over the previous years, none of the ordinary mortals could have become the owner of large-scale capital without having an extremely strong political relationship with political parties and those in power, but these relationships are always being kept with opposition parties, at least the largest tycoons are doing so, and without the abundant financing of these political parties. Those who lost these relationships often passed like Bogoljub Karic, who overnight from, I say, a respected member of society and the owner of a great empire became a person from an APB and lost much of his business assets. What is interesting, a career similar to his, conditionally said similar, Mr. Željko Mitrović, owner of "Pinka", who is very well known to our public. He started out as an ordinary musician, as a guitarist, unless I was wrong. Very soon, with the help of political ties and membership in the former Yugoslav Union left, he expanded his business empire. By 2000, he had quite a branch business. He made television that you, the leaders of the doss regime at the time, fiercely criticised for the spine, ham, Spanish series, even accused him of helping directly, entertaining the people, extending Milosevic's regime. It was to be expected that he would be one of those whose property was subject to review, that he might pass perhaps as Bogoljub Karic, however, he obviously had extremely good political ties and in the parties that make up today's ruling coalition. So also in the Democratic Party, first of all, but also in the SPO and others. Clearly, he continued to be rich even after the five-eyed revolution. It is only for one company, the data is available on the Internet via APR, meaning for Pink International Company, in 2008 there were 9,666,485,000 dinars in the activity. It's just one of his numerous companies. I wonder if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has ever controlled that property, is that the plan? Let's see, considering that in the previous period, you've made quite a commitment to it. I think this is the owner of the capital you should also check.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35460	Time. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35461	I think we've already heard the answer that we can't talk about something that's under investigation, so if it's controlled property, where the control has arrived, etc. I'd like to leave it to the investigating authorities to do so; when they do, we'll have information about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35462	Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35463	Mr. Prime Minister, I will understand that you have answered my question yes, that the empire of Zeljko Mitrovica is currently under the control of the judicial authorities. I'd like to point out some things to you that, in my opinion, you should check. I have not prepared too much information now, because the time is short, but it is undeniable that Željko Mitrovica has at least acquired part of his property by breaking the law and with the abundant political assistance of the then ruling parties. In particular, the building "Pinka", you know it is located on Dedinj, is extremely high; as you know, it was made absolutely without any permission. On January 31st 2000, a regulatory plan for the spatial continent of Dedinj was adopted. That plan, among other things, regulated the block where that building is located. That's unless I'm wrong, block 21. The plan itself isn't that interesting. He prescribed certain parameters, what objects could be built, what coverage, etc. However, he is a controversial member of 43, who was apparently completely pointless, unconstitutional and intended for this particular man. This Article 43 stipulates that it is possible to legalise even objects that do not meet the criteria given by a spatial plan in that spatial part of the Dedinj. That regulation plan went to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court brought 31. 12. In 2002, a decision confirming the regulation plan, but of course, it declared the famous member 43 against the constitution. It is understood that in the meantime, according to an agreement that existed, I suppose, with the ruling DS and SP, Zeljko Mitrovica submitted a legalisation request and legalized his facility. To make the whole thing more interesting, all the other property owners in that 21 block who meet the conditions in accordance with the law until today have failed to legalize their facilities. When we talk about the Pink TV program, I really don't think he's ever been worse than he is today. If anyone could be accused of preserving Milosevic's regime and entertaining citizens, the question arises whether these shows are being controlled by anyone now, does the RRA control them? Do the Government, the Ministry of Culture, Education and you as president have an opinion on shows such as "The Moment of Truth", "The Big Brother"? It is clear that these emissions and these emissions make them extremely large funds. To make things worse, one of the authors and creators of the "Big Brother" series is Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, who was a senior official... He was the first official, he was at Boris Tadic's National Office, it was his bounceboard, and then he left. He didn't, as he says, get rich before politics; he got rich during politics. He then took big steps to increase his capital. For example, only "Emotion Production", which owns the license for "Big Brother", achieved 78,000,000 in 2005, 193.000,000 in 2006, and in 2007 as many as 373,000,000 dinars. The total value of Dragan Djilas and Željko Mitrovic's assets is really hard to talk about, but I think it is interesting that in 2007, the proceeds of the "Multicom Group", whose Dragan Gilas co-owner, amounted to 6.2 billion dinars, while at the same time the Nisa budget was a billion lower, while for example, the budget of the Čukarica municipality was 302,000,000. About the 20-year budgets of the municipality of Čukarica amounted to the business income of Dragan Gilas! Of course, in 2008, the revenue increased by another billion, which amounts to about 7,157,698,000. I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have to show, if you're already making a declaration to fight corruption, that it's ready to deal with those who are fat in corruption not only, but also in politics, because you'll admit that these are really the amounts of which...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35464	Thank you. You'll have five more minutes. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35465	It was only after a long time that I realized that you were talking about Mr. Mitrovica. You came from Saric, so my first answer was to Saric. When I said it was an investigation, it was about Sharic. This is where you asked, I understood, two questions and I'll give you a brief answer. The first question was, does the government control the shows that are being displayed? No, we don't control the shows. The show's being controlled by the editor-in-chief. The government does not interfere with the editorial policy of television or printed media. There are regulatory bodies that are independent of the government. If there are any violations, they do. The second question, do we control the funds, the revenues, the answer is yes. So, the competent authorities, first of all the Ministry of Finance, through the IRS, control everyone and determines whether what he earned was in a legal way, whether he paid taxes. In this regard, if an irregularity is encountered, of course, the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, reacts to it and initiates the appropriate procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35466	Mr. Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35467	Mr. Cvetkovic, first of all, I would really like to ask you, I believe, on behalf of all those present, to wake up from your winter sleep. You, whatever question anyone may ask you, have just repeated a similar situation with a DSS gentleman, no matter what anyone asks you... (President: Mr. MP, please respect the prime minister with verbalization. ) Thank you, Mrs. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, I respect Mr. Cvetkovic, but I think it would be good if he respected me. Because you'll admit that it can really be called a demeaning fact that he didn't actually listen to my question, but only when colleagues sitting next to him warned him to talk about something that I didn't ask him back on the subject. If I hadn't wasted any more time on that, I'd be asking you a little more specific now. So this isn't about whether incomes are like this or not. The Belgrade City Budgetary Audit Agency has already controlled the business of the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" on several occasions. She gave her report, which clearly shows that a large number of laws have been broken. What I'm interested in is: when did the Government of the Republic of Serbia carry out a business audit, that is, when was the government's control and control of the Belgrade city? I assure you that I have a really large number of documents that confirm, in an undeniable way, that large funds are being spent completely non-intentional. In particular, as regards "The Big Brother" and the series from which Željko Mitrovic makes an extremely large amount of money, you must know that this facility was built as an object for the daily stay of children, that the formal investor was the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad", that the Directorate for the Construction of the City of Belgrade even accounted for the land in the amount of 20% lower on the basis of the fact that the facility for the daily stay of children, but that the company "Emotion Production" eventually appeared as the only user of the facility. What is interesting is that such an accounting of the company "Emotion Production", whose co-owner Dragan Djilas, and from whom Zeljko Mitrovic daily earns large amounts of money, saved 4.450.304 dinars at the expense of Belgrade city residents. What is also very interesting is that the Big Brother house is a business space of 1,967 m square, and that Dragan Gilas, as co-owner of the company and a witness fighter for the rights of the poor Beogradians, rented it (repeatedly, 1,967 m square) for 416.6 euros per month, which means that the monthly lease per square of 0.21 euros or that the annual rent per square is 2.5 euros. You know very well that neither the residential nor the exclusive business space in Belgrade can be rented for nearly the same money. Clearly, this is about a big thief. Of course, no one reacted to this report by the Agency for Budgetary Audit of the City of Belgrade, even though it was sent to the republican authorities and the prosecution. That wasn't interesting enough for you. At the time, the director of the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" Mladen Vujosevic, against whom a criminal application was to be filed and who had to answer in accordance with the law, was recently awarded another term as director of the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad". This is, therefore, an affair that has lasted for years, whose end is not seen, and there is no willingness for the state authorities to react adequately. I didn't expect to, Mr. Cvetkovic, it wasn't my exact question, that you personally control the content of the programme, but it is clear that the RRA must do so, as it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of who it gets the information from, must verify you, especially when it comes to obtaining such large amounts of money. To remind you, all this data I read is official and comes from the Agency for Budgetary Inspection of the City of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35468	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35469	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to ask the exact question, and that question about the prevention of the flood. I would not like to abuse the parliamentary opportunity for personal and party promotion when asking questions. I'm sorry when some colleagues use the possibility of asking questions not to ask questions, but to listen to themselves, and especially I don't like it if they attack those who aren't in this room. In any case, there is a possibility of making personal views and comments at press conferences, in the stands. I think we should allow other colleagues to ask questions and take advantage of their own parliamentary capacity. My question concerns flood prevention, because I witnessed that in Panchevo, where I came from, and Panchevo lies in Tamis and Dunava, three or four years ago the high water supply of Danube and other water streams threatened the inhabited places in the Pancheva municipality at the time. The fact is that at that moment, one inhabited place in the Panchevo municipality was two and a half metres below the Danube level. That is why and because of everything that is happening today in Serbia, I ask the question – what is being done in terms of coordinated efforts to make adequate prevention of possible high water? First of all, I'm thinking about the defense area, because we know that there's an defenseless and defensive area, in terms of protecting against high water. I think that without the coordinated action "Serbian", "Vojvod", local self-government, the province and the republican authorities in the situation, three or four years ago, without adequate assistance from the military, the question is whether we would be able to defend ourselves. All I'm talking about is the area of the town of Panchev and the settlements of the current city of Panchev. In that sense, my question is: what is being done to reduce the consequences of high water and floods in some way and what is being done to prevent high water levels across Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35470	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35471	Thank you. Dear People's MP, the issue is very current, because we have had the opportunity to see floods in a significant number of municipalities in Serbia over the past few days, not only in eastern Serbia, where this seems to be the most serious, but also in western Serbia and in some other parts. When you look at it a little wider, you see that Serbia is not only affected; it seems that these climate change leads to floods happening to us, to us, and to other countries more often than some statistics in the last fifty-hundred years. Given the current situation today, we discussed what and how we should do at the government's session. In doing so, we had the opportunity to hear the report of the most competent people who deal with it, which was the gentleman who is the director of the "Serbian" and the head of the MUP, the Emergency Department. At this time, we are told that at the moment of the flood, measures are being taken that are actually reducing the damage, but that real efforts are being made continuously and not at the time when the floods start, but they are in advance of the anticipation and are being built accordingly. I received information from another source, and I was surprised that significant funds are being invested in the defence of floodwaters in Serbia through the company "Serbia"; it is several billion dinars, which are being invested each year. We see that it may not be enough, that it may be necessary to invest more. Anyway, now that what happened to us, we, at least according to the information of the people who were professional, had a very unfavourable situation, because on the one hand you had a rain and at the same time a very high temperature. These two natural phenomena, the high temperature that caused the melting of large amounts of snow, which had fallen before, plus rain, led to a great flood wave and all the opportunities we had to see. The government has been considering how to help these people, and in this context a decision has been made to analyse the resources we have and we can from the current reserve to single out for these purposes. Then we would share these funds in some way depending on who went through. One group took care of it. I expect that, during tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we may make the appropriate decision to refer the funds to these endangered areas, and I cannot talk about the figures, because it is still being analysed. So in short, now we're dealing with something right now; we're solving it the current way. In a broader context, that's what you're working on in continuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35472	Thank you. The question is asked by MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35473	Thank you. Let me begin by giving you one objection, Madam Chairman, because you did not respond when the MP from the other party expressed itself very negatively, or, I may say, in a political sense, attacked the head of our parliamentary group. By contrast, when the opposition MP spoke of the prime minister, you were very agile. Although I've only got three minutes in my first speech, I've got to draw attention to what he said, I'm talking about this remark in an hour... Since Vojislav Kostunica and the team that held this country satanicized us during his time as president of the federal state, then came to power and this satanicization continued through the institutions, since they failed to prove anything but to approach those claims that are nonstop, today they continue again through their mob boards to muddle all those fighting for reforms in this country. That wouldn't be so important, it'd be more of an incident, which doesn't deserve attention here, but I have to notice that in a political sense... And there's a question for Mr. Cvetkovic, prime minister, I'll try to ask you a political question, I don't know how much we'll understand each other. You just said you didn't want to talk about things that are in the past, you wanted to talk about something that's the future, but we can't agree with you. The Liberal Democratic Party thinks that each of us must take responsibility for what he did, so that Kostunica must take responsibility for what the Legion for him is a gentleman, for giving citizenship to Saric at the time he controlled both the police and the BIA and the judiciary; then, when he tried to interfere with the trial of Zoran Djindjic; he must, among other things, bear political responsibility and for the depth of the crisis in which this country is today. I ask you, why do you refuse to talk about it? And if there was not enough clear question that the head of our parliamentary group referred to, I will repeat to you now, perhaps in a slightly different language – why did you decide to attack another country before you decided to establish political responsibility in this country? I have a question for Mr. Skundric. To begin with, the question is very simple, you have avoided answering – why do Serbian citizens of domestic gas, found in Serbia, pay more expensive, or the same as Russian gas imported into Serbia? I don't think the question is simpler than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35474	Mr. Cvetkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35475	I'll try to explain my views on this first question you asked me. First of all, I view these contacts as one moment that's relatively rare, so every month we see each other for three hours, and not every month, but only those months when the Assembly is in session. I've been expecting and I'd like to talk about what the government is doing, where it could be better, where she could hear some criticism and I'm very sorry, of course you have the right to do it, but I have the right to regret that there are various papers here now, reading about kindergartens, about this, about that. I believe that these are important questions, but I'm not sure that these are issues that need to be spent this time, which I really think is a rare time. In this context, the rareness of this time is my view of whether we will return to the past or not, and that we should look to the future. Of course, I'm not up for any blame from the past, but I didn't imagine these conversations should be about what anybody did in 2005, in January 2007, etc., but I'm about to see where we came from. We have a few key things we're talking about here. One key thing is European integration. Another key thing is the economy and life of people. The third key thing is territorial integrity and sovereignty. Let's see how we go through all these things, as far as we're concerned. These are the things that every citizen of this country is interested in. I'm saying again, I don't want to diminish the importance of these other issues, but these are questions for the police or for some local parliaments. All of you who have them, put them in the envelope, send them to the police, and let them deal with corrupt people. So, if you understood me correctly, I didn't think I needed to return on May 30, 2005, I didn't need to go back to 2004, when newspapers started to publish, etc. It's not what needs to be filled with the time that we all miss.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35476	The word is Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35477	For a brief question, it will be a brief answer. It's normal to have a unique energy price and it should be formed according to the participation of the source. The participation of domestic sources is up to 8% in total gas consumption, and 92% are sources that we draw from gas supply, as well as the rest or most countries in the environment. Therefore, the price formed was formed on the basis of the proportions and participations of our produced and purchased gas from "Gasprom".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35478	Mr. Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35479	Thank you. I don't have any emotion, Mr. Cvetkovic, for your expectations, I simply think it's your intention to avoid your responsibility. So I can't agree with you that in any way you're going to influence what we're going to ask you. I understand that you are coming with ready answers to the questions of your ruling majority and that it is your desire to talk about these things, but believe that the rights, the questions of life are those asked by the MPs of the opposition. It is a dangerous delusion that you will enter into if we have now failed some of your expectations, because that means that your expectations are far from real life. When I say that the government's problem is the political responsibility of Vojislav Kostunica, it also has to do with the "South Stream", and with NIS, but it also has to do with Saric, both Ratko Mladic and the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. Where's the connection to what you're talking about? The connection is that some or most of us, we expect of you, the problems you are struggling with today, and each of us individually, the result of something that has been done before. The fact that the minister of justice is confiscating property, as she said yesterday, is due to the fact that this gentleman was granted citizenship in this country during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. What you're saying is that you're not interested and that you expect us to ask something else, that only right now, in this session, to free you from your responsibilities, but she's here. My question was political because your foreign policy blamed another country, in which our citizens and citizens of our nationality live, for a causal link and support to this criminal clan, without previously saying anything about the causal relationships here. The political consequences of this will be great, and the responsibility will not be Kostunica's, but yours, because you are the prime minister of the government. Today I ask you, if we are all here to suspect that "South Stream" will be made, that is the price that began to pay during Vojislav Kostunica, but you have this problem today, your statement yesterday is that "South Stream" is Serbia's priority, and we heard a question before – what if the "South Stream" does not mean that NIS will return to Serbia? So it's going to be what makes Mr. Skundric logical, but none of us, that no matter how much domestic gas is in percentages, domestic gas can cost the same thing as gas delivered from Russia. That's not normal. You say 8%. I don't know if it's 8%. That's 140,000,000 cc's. That's $47,000 donated to Russia. Does your government not know what else they can do for $47,000? You want to answer now through that response to the MP of your ruling coalition on the raised question of floods whether the 47,000,000 could have been used, so that these floods in Zajecar could not be? That's the language we speak. Perhaps in this country, Mr. Skundric, the most expensive gas, is the most expensive gasoline of all countries in the environment. You say other countries are in the interest of having a "South Stream". Normally, we've always told you, and it's our interest, but what country has given its oil industry to the South Stream? Name one. Which one did she give? Does this mean that if the “South Stream, ” as everyone says... And because of your influence on the media, it is not news in Serbia alone, and the news is on Russian television that "South Stream" will be delayed for five and more years, building "South Stream". These are conjectures, so now you can say it's not. As we told you last time, there's no interest in that. In Ukraine, the political situation is different, the crisis is parallel, Russia has no economic interest in building it at the moment. We ask you a question – does this mean that the NIS gift agreement will be done, so Serbia's citizens will be able to pay cheaper gas from Serbia than the gas imported from God-knows-where? When it comes to "Serbiagas", I have another question for you. We have before us MPs a request for a guarantee from the Serbian state that "Srbigas" should take a $170,00,000 loan from the Bank of Itheza. I think it's next week, we'll talk more about it next week. Now we ask you, this assembly should support, raise the hand to "Srbigas" to give credit for covering current expenditures and short-term business, while at the same time "Srbigas" forms insurance companies, donates emissions on televisions on which it then broadcasts its programme, influences the information program; 47,000,000... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Just to finish the sentence, 47,000,000 dollars we give to that company, and then we give her a loan to settle the commitments of $170,00,000. Please explain it a little bit closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35480	Mr. Stefan Zankov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35481	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, members of the Government, you all know that there is a great disaster, an unremembered... (Ivan Andric, from the scene: I have five minutes left. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35482	You actually commented on the answer and had the opportunity to ask an additional question. Does anyone want to answer? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Skundrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35483	I don't think we have a new question, this is an old question, which you keep asking, in connection with the justification of the gas-naphtha arrangement that this country has concluded with the Russian Federation, that is, the Strategic Partner "Gaspromia" and "Gaspromneft" in the area of meeting its needs for certain amounts of energy in our market and creating conditions to become not only a serious producer of certain energy for our market, but also beyond that. You're constantly starting from the fact that we donated the oil industry to Serbia's strategic partner. Those who have made a value assessment and we who have accepted this value assessment and now claim that this is one of the best jobs, which has significantly contributed to stopping negative economic or economic trends caused by the global financial and economic crisis in the world. We had a net inflow for 51% of the NIS shares sold, 400,000 euros in one day was paid. We have approached NIS revitalisation in the best possible way and we have a realistic investment cycle in one of the important sectors. As for your disputes regarding the implementation of the South Stream project, I cannot nor have the need to prove it, except to remind you that other countries have signed similar or similar arrangements and that some are trying, like. Romania and Croatia, to get the same status in the "South Stream" project that has Serbia. So it's not a virtual project. You must know that the pipelines through which the gas passes are not European, I wish they were, I wish they were ours, these are the pipelines that were made in the time of the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, part of these pipelines through Ukraine are not in good shape. In addition to their revitalization, there is an objective need to create new conditions for transporting gas. You know that the northern current has begun to be realized and that the realisation of the project "South Stream" has started. You will challenge him, I will constantly think it is one of the best strategic development projects this country has entered. I wish we had a lot more natural gas, but we don't. We would like many other European countries, but they don't. I would also like the Nabucco project to cover Serbia. Unfortunately, Nabucco does not have the necessary amounts of gas in these moments so that it can begin to be realized. If it is realistic that something will be realized, it is realistic that the project "South Stream" will be realised. I don't mind "The Nabucco" if we are offered to go through Serbia, I will be very pleased to see that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35484	Mr. Andric, you have the opportunity to comment on the answer for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35485	It's very interesting that if "Nubuko" passes... Unfortunately, we have already given NIS, or fortunately, so we cannot give the same for Nabucco. With a lot of things you've said we can't agree, I'll even be so free to say they're not even true. No country in the environment has such an agreement with Russia as we do, we gave NIS and 51%. There's no country anywhere near here. When we look at the results today, Serbia ran out of gas, no compensation, last year for a month. We can agree on the cause. It was a crisis in Ukraine, whatever we call it. Today, I will repeat, gasoline, fuel that citizens buy every day (and this price is also included in the price of groceries, which is why it is so important), more expensive than anywhere in the environment. The third score, I don't know, I don't understand so much that I can say, but I see on national television that other gas dealers are complaining about NIS monopoly. If I'm not mistaken, they're asking to be allowed to import. That import was banned for smuggling. It's not like the state is still afraid that smuggling is possible, is it? So, we gave the monopoly, 51% of NIS ownership, we give them credit for "Serbiagas", so that we can buy gas at a price that is among the highest in Europe and therefore we should be grateful. That would be a political evaluation of what you said. We can't agree. You didn't answer my question. My question was very simple. The question is: if "Srbigas" asks the Serbian Parliament to be guaranteed a $170,00,000 loan for what it calls short-term commitments, it means it has nothing to do with any strategic project, to cover the loss, and at the same time they've already taken 47,000,000 for the gas that's from Serbia, then we could say that we're lending, we're giving a $150,000 grant to "Serbiagas" but we're going to give 170,000,000 to recover from the crisis that he's gone into because of bad business, opening up insurance companies, pre-election campaigns? Why don't you mention it too? Any local elections – "Srbigas" another loan. During that time, this debate, which is conceived as a debate where MPs ask questions, so the question is, technically, this which you are at least trying to give an answer to, but the question is also politically, to which the prime minister has nothing to say... It is not his to explain to us the reasons why his foreign minister is running the worst regional policy in this country's history. The only thing worse was during Slobodan Milosevic, when we were at war with the environment. I ask you why you accuse another country, in which citizens of our nationality, in part, our citizens, why are you accusing them of having a relationship with the Saric clan? At the same time, do not clean your yard, in which there are also these connections, so that we can tell you – well done, you have good intentions, you should look at other people's yard. You say, "It is not for you to do this." You'd like to talk about how a paid economist told you there was growth in the country. If we could get Mrs. Kolundji's questions, so we could ask you, and then this country is booming... Unfortunately, it doesn't depend on it. I'll ask you one more question. To be honest with you, you mentioned European integration, I will repeat the question – will this assembly make a resolution on Srebrenica and, Mr. Prime Minister, in your opinion, a genocide has been committed there, as the International Court of Justice ruled?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35486	Mr. Zankov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35487	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of the government, you all know that a great disaster, an unremembered flood has struck Zajecar. Hundreds of households are flooded. The damage is huge, the first estimate is a billion dinars. I want to tell you that the people of Zaječar are expecting the help of the state because all of this exceeds the capacities and possibilities of the city of Zaječar. If the city of Zajecar of this government and the previous governments has been forgotten about investment, investment, development, there is no reason to do so this time and not to help my fellow citizens who have been pushed by great pain. At this point, the people of Zaječar are not interested in the questions raised by the authorities, they are not interested in whether all of this could have gone differently, whether there are guilty, responsible. They're expecting a very specific answer at the moment when the water is withdrawing; there's a Black Timok on the rise, but now we're talking about this case. So, did the government make any concrete decisions at today’s session, if today’s session was held? If it isn't, when, in what way and with how much resources, given the amount of damage, will it be able to come out and help the citizens? There are practically five hundred houses unusable, all the things people have acquired for years have in some way lost, so my question is extremely specific: when, in what way and with how much resources will the government come to help this endangered area and the people who live there? That's the first question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35488	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35489	I've already given an answer to what happened at the government. So, there were discussions at the government, as I said, we had reports of people in charge of it, several ministers spoke and practically the whole government supported the need to help vulnerable areas. On the other hand, the finance ministry also said it could provide certain funds. We agreed, since we didn't have any quantifications, that those assets we have are as big as they are, they're distributed by some key that would be just and that would depend on who was killed. Just as we're talking about it, that's what it's all about. I also said that I believed that tomorrow we would make the right decision. If it's not over tomorrow, we'll do it Saturday at the latest. I can't tell you about the numbers because that's what it's still about, but that's gonna help, it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35490	Mr. Zankov has his word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35491	You say you can't talk about numbers. I urge you to take care of the amount of damage that, according to first estimates, is a billion dinars, not to be one symbolic aid, but to help people in accordance with the circumstances that have affected them. I have one more question, regarding the Center for Agricultural and Technological Research in Zajecar. I think it's time and time to talk about it, that no one can interpret it as a waste of time, as you just let yourself say. The founder of this centre is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I received a letter from the union and the strike committee of this centre informing me that the workers of the Center of the 25th of January are on strike, with the following demands addressed to the Government and the Resort Ministry of Science and Technological Development. From these demands you will also see the essence of the problem. In short: to solve the problem of back-to-back earnings, eleven earnings from 2009 and seven earnings from 2006, i.e. by the end of January, to start paying off the back-to-back earnings, and to further pay off the profits on a regular basis; to connect payments and thus to work-out; to determine the current financial situation of the firm and to review the business of management; to consider the principles of business of the company and to involve the Ministry of Science and Technological Development in resolving employee status, possibly technological surplus, social programme security, etc. Those are the demands. I consider these requirements not only reasonable, normal, but extremely modest and absolutely justified. I promised these people that I would do everything possible to hear about this problem in the National Assembly because the ministry had repeatedly disobeyed their appeals and demands. It's a very respectable establishment of republican importance. The employees are justly concerned about their fate and the fate of the research centre itself, and everyone seems to want this institution to be shut down in a quiet way, without worrying about the people who are employed there. I would also like to quote Minister Djelic, who on 20 February, on the question of which scientific areas will be a priority for investment from the EIB's loan, said that after nine months of public debate, seven priorities, including agriculture and the defence of national identity. I think this way, as the Government acts and as it takes care of such institutions as this, which was founded in 1906 and 64 of the new variety of agricultural plants, etc., that I don't read it now, does not care about national identity and does not work in line with priorities, let alone worry about some other obligations. My question is directly addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because as the Ministry and Minister behave, and given the fact that employees have been on strike for a month, my question is the fate of the Center for Agricultural and Technological Research in Zajecar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35492	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35493	Since an answer is expected, I'll give you an answer. I'm not familiar with that case. The resolution minister is currently not in the country, otherwise he would have come, he is in Budapest. I'll ask him, I'm just not familiar. Thank you for opening that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35494	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35495	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have testified that in these last few days in the work of the public, we are happy with the small but also here in the parliament building, and the other day, and here today, we want to impute, not to mention, to the governments of Vojislav Kostunica that they have participated in some backgrounds of some events that have marked the last ten or twenty years in Serbia. I would like to point out that the Democratic Party of Serbia is willing, eager and willing to participate in all discussions for the sake of revealing all the political backgrounds of all political events, both those criminal and those mentioned by colleagues from one of the so-called opposition parties, related to 12 March 2003. Accordingly, I would like to ask several questions to the mostly absent police minister Ivica Dacic, but also to the justice ministers, here present to Mrs. Snezani Malovic. I hope that part of the answer to the questions I've given Mr. Dacic will come from you, Mr. Cvetkovic. On December 25, 2003, the co-chairman of the then government, Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr. Rade Veljkovic, handed over dozens of bullets to the competent police authorities, a larger amount of classical explosives, 20 defensive bombs M-52, 53, a M-70 caliber 7.62 millimeter rifle, a factory number 112 161. I ask Mr Dacic – is there an official note at the Ministry of the Interior that all that was stated during a certain period was with Mr Cedomir Jovanovic and was this weapon sent for ballistic examination? Has it been established that these rifles from the police station's contingent on Mother Jevrosima Street in Belgrade, from which, as we know, a significant number of rifles have been seized? Is there any knowledge that these guns have been liquidated on the streets of Belgrade by the Zemun clan? What is the fate of these rifles and explosive devices, which have been handed over to the criminal police administration by order of the superiors? Police have done their part of the job, for the sake of skill and further operational work, which is confirmed by the dispatches, i.e. an order from February 2, 2004. Three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35496	You will receive a written reply within eight days. If any of the members of the government would like to, go ahead. I think it's a question that many of the ministers can directly answer. Don't throw it away, let me explain. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35497	You'll get your answer in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35498	Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35499	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask my colleague, Tomic, if I understand things correctly. You're asking our colleague Ivica Dacic, Minister of the Interior since July 2008, what happened in 2003 and 2004? Who was the minister of police then? I'll be happy to give him a question and you'll get a safe answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35500	Are you satisfied or do you want to comment? I get the impression you're satisfied with the answer, you're smiling. Mr. Zeljko Tomic still wants to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35501	Of course I'm satisfied, but for one single reason – because I expected one of the ministers to say this, but I didn't expect it from the Minister of Education. Why I'm pleased, you'll hear in my presentation. My next question is for Justice Minister Mrs. Snezana Malovic. The question is: how long has the procedure for the 20 visits of Cedomir Jovanovic to the murderers of Zoran Djindjic in Belgrade's Central Prison? Remember that Cedomir Jovanovic and the children of the prisoners brought to see his parents. For all we know, the trial was only against Dragisa Blanusha, then acting as head of central prison in Belgrade. Look at the case, so here were the events of June 2009: there were some local elections in Zemun and the candidate of the Liberal Democratic Party was Dragis Blanush! This time he was doing a lot less important things and in his program for Zemun... Beware of the irony of fate, as a candidate in Zemun, to care, pathetically, about sidewalks, street sellers and green areas. What about the process against Mr Dragisa Blanuša, who provided Cedomir Jovanovic with a 20-fold tour of the murderers of Zoran Djindjic? Furthermore, is it clear who issued the order to the then management of UBPOK to suspend the action to deprive Cedomir Jovanovic of his freedom, in the middle of the "Sabbe" action, and whether there are operational data from the MUP, that is most important in today's context... I have to do a little digression, we heard here from Mr Jovanovic and at all from LDP representatives that it doesn't matter what's going on in Montenegro, that Serbia and this today's government in Serbia, or you present ministers, should not wage war against Montenegro, but rather see what's going on with us, let's say, the Saric case. I ask the police minister and I want a written answer, for the sake of the public, not even for myself so much, whether he has operational knowledge of meetings, which were at least seven-eightths, at the Maša restaurant in Podgorica, attended by controversial businessmen Stanko Subotić-Cana, Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic and Cedomir Jovanovic, the only man in the world, and not in Serbia, who, when coming out of the pool, has dirty hands, at his own recognition. Of course, I mean the pool in Zemun, I mean the pool on Schiller Street in Zemun. Mr. Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, said on a television a while ago that Saric's affair is also about the government of Zoran Djindjic, and the government of Zoran Zivkovic, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica and today, perhaps, and that this government, my God, is going to conflict with Saric and that it will solve the problem. You said you were trying to do it, and it's quite correct on your part. But to apostrophe and listen constantly that since 2004 alone, there has been something more to do with the affair, Saric... Then you discuss it with your secretary of state, who's calling for an earlier period. That's what he's talking about. opposition parties, that only one government is to blame for a bunch of drug lords in Serbia, falls into the water. Please make a deal with Mr. Homen when that problem has arisen at all. I would like to repeat to you that the Democratic Party of Serbia is ready to talk openly about the backgrounds of all the major events that have happened, but finally to say who has done what and who is responsible, to get away from these dreary fogs above Serbia, whether the drag fog or some others is not important, but that we can look into the public's eyes, who has dirtyed hands and in what way. Someone admitted to dirtying his hands. Please, Mrs. Malovic, about the Blanuša case, where is the court case today? If you try to answer me the same way as Mr. Obradovic, I will remind you that many people from the judiciary and the prosecution were inherited from DOS times...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35502	Time. Mrs. Malovic, the minister of justice, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35503	I thank you for asking, and I will answer you directly. The Department of Justice does not have any record of the stages of judicial proceedings, but we will forward your question to the prosecution or the court. After the answer has been received, it will certainly be forwarded to you. Whatever we get in response will also be delivered to you and made public. As for your question to me, who gave the order not to arrest Cedomir Jovanovic... Didn't I get the question? You're up to the point, so I thought there were some mixed things, but now you're explaining to me that the question wasn't addressed to me. Also, you told me about Homen's statement. I'll tell you that the statement was completely misread in the written media. The statement in the electronic media was somewhat different. As far as the investigation itself is concerned, it is within the jurisdiction of the prosecution and no one outside the prosecution and other than those people who are legally authorized to work on it should not and should not have any knowledge of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35504	Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35505	I will not use all five minutes to make my own conclusion, for the sake of the public, for the sake of Serbia's citizens, I will repeat again. We really want to expose all the backgrounds, whether they're political or whatever. The Democratic Party of Serbia has always wanted that, but not to be planted on some perfidious TV shows of certain things, which are easy to prove that they are false and that the structures are stories of "mafija," I quote, "Vladi Vojislav Kostunica", because it is simply not true. The connections to the underworld, they're known to have been, it's widely known and easily proven. But is this government of the Republic of Serbia ready to deal with it too, so that we can finally figure out what the political backgrounds of various events are, from the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic to these current ones, related to the Saric brothers? We also want to know what is the role of both Cedomir Jovanovic and Bojan Pajtic and "Metals of the Bank", so Anton Stanaj, Anani Pavicevic and Darko Saric. We know that Montenegro is a haven, let's say, suspicious characters. Not only does the public of Serbia know that, you can also read it in the media in Italy and Croatia. I don't want to say anything bad about that country, but the fact is, there are a lot of suspicious characters out there. There was also the mentioned Terzic, there was Saric, there were many. That's where they were hiding. I will support your efforts in that confrontation, to call it so, don't get me wrong now, with your colleague; I wish you luck, in the sense that you will show and prove connections with your counterpart from Montenegro, even the Montenegrin states, with all these faces. They came to me in Novi Sad, they worked in Vojvodina, and they're working day and day. It's a common-known thing to anyone who's strictly interested in it. I want this government to really face what's going on, but do you have the strength and the will to do it? Do you think you'll make it? Certain people from the New Sad underworld have gone to Montenegro in time; they have returned. That's what we Novosadians know well. We may not have some big evidence and papers and all that, but you know who's rounding the New Sad, who's holding the strings and who's holding the money, dirty money, black market money, drug money and every other market. We want all these names and all these events and all the contexts in which they were used to finally light up so that Serbia can look at itself in a mirror and stand up for clean hands, not dirty ones like someone here proud of having them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35506	You can't, Mrs. Malovic, answer now. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35507	Thank you. At first, I must say that I will not talk about the Sharics, but I want to talk about the IMF, given that the international institution's mission has attracted great attention over the past few days to the Serbian public. Again are the deals that were run about so-called. The third revision of the credit arrangement presented as fatal, although in principle, which we think in the Serbian Radical Party, they essentially brought absolutely nothing new, which confirmed by his statement just before the start of these talks and Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who said that Serbia will meet everything the IMF asks of it and that simple real talks will practically not be. I'd like to get some information on this occasion, which is an answer to the question of the so-called question. Letters on intentions, which the Serbian government and the National Bank of Serbia sent to the IMF on 3 December 2009, more specifically to Mr. Stroscan, who is otherwise the head of Albert Jager, who is in charge of the mission in Belgrade. Interestingly, in the first paragraph of the letter of intent, it states that in certain sectors the effects of the global financial crisis on our economy were more unfavourable than those forecasted. In particular, this refers to the sudden halting of the expansion of the domestic and external borrowing of the company sector. It is obvious that the Serbian government is as if justice in front of the IMF because Serbian companies could not continue to be in debt in the west, as was the case before the crisis began. Then, in the same paragraph, regrets the decline in imports to Serbia. On the other hand, there is no word of a fall in Serbian exports. Economically incomprehensible and sentences found in one of the next paragraphs, such as that state-owned stakes in banks will be eliminated as soon as possible. I would really like to get an answer as to what this specifically means, whether you, Mrs Dragutinovic, or Mr Dinkic. In the letter of intent, there is not a single word about the behaviour of Western banks on the Serbian market, about interest that is several times greater than in the West, etc. What I would like to know is, if the terms of the Serbian authorities' commitment to implement the key, as they say, pension, education and health reforms, and if it is known that the freezing of profits and pensions in the annual inflation projected to 7%, what will it essentially mean with their real value and so until we start tightening the belt or doing less? I think you owe the citizens the answer to the question of whether this time the biggest part of the credit arrangement funds will be used to boost foreign reserves, and today, when the course has exceeded the psychological barrier of a hundred dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35508	Time. Thank you. Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, finally one question addressed to me, although I didn't take this as a question, I'm more aware that you remind us of that letter of intent sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the International Monetary Fund. I have to admit that I didn't get the impression that someone was talking about this third revision as something that, how can I say, is breaky or crucial in Serbia. I can conclude that the third revision of the arrangement with the IMF, the credit arrangement or the stand-by has been successfully completed, which means that what has been set as a quantitative benchmark for enforcement, as indicative objectives, as structural parameters, that the Serbian government has fulfilled, all for the sake of easier crisis management. You know very well that the banking sector is mostly in private hands and that a small part of the banks has remained in the so-called bank. State property. The fact is that the banking sector is the most affected by the crisis, as well as those actions that depend most on the banking sector. That is why it is extremely important for the banking sector to get as much capital as possible. What was written as a paragraph in the letter of intent when it comes to those banks that are still in the hands of the state or where the state has its actions, essentially refers to the process of capitalisation. I don't think there's anything wrong with recapitalizing banks, on the contrary, banks that have larger capital will grant more loans to clients, the population and private persons. In that sense, it is necessary to understand that part of the letter of intent that you have apostrophe. I don't know if I left anything else out. Please remind me. It seemed like you were reading something that... that's not the real question. What exactly was done? I'll tell you, no one can, when it comes to the crisis, be satisfied because the crisis brings very unfavourable economic movements. The crisis means a fall in economic activity. It happened everywhere, it happened in Serbia. What I can tell you from the data we have is that the decline in economic activity in Serbia was less than in countries in the region. I'm not saying I'm happy with the result, but you're always looking at Serbia in terms of countries in an environment or countries like us. The decline in economic activity in Serbia was lower. Let us not forget that Serbia's economic growth in the pre-crisis period was characterised by a large balance of payments deficit. In 2008, the balance of payments deficit (we are not proud of it, but it is a fact) was almost 18%, 17th point something, a social product. In just one year, which is this program, it's below 6% of the social product. There has been a major adjustment of economy and economic activity, of course with a decline in economic activity that was not greater than 3%. What did we do next, what did we do? The deficit. I agree, and I don't like the deficit. Personally, I'm very conservative and I think every country during the economic cycle needs to be balanced. When I say during the cycle, I think – in the period of growth of economic activity, it is normal for the state to have surpluses; in the period of decline of economic activity, it is normal for the state to have a deficit. We had that deficit and the deficit was lower than what we agreed. We agreed on 134 billion; in life it's 121 -125 billion, I can't tell you exactly. When you look at how much that deficit was, that deficit was lower than in all the countries around it. Yet I think this program has given the government the means to manage the crisis. I think we've minimized the negative effects of the crisis. You asked one more question... So the deficit, the balance of payments, the drop in economic activity, that's all the state has done. Plus, she's committed to some things, and it's going to meet, say, pension reform, which has been agreed on in all possible elements, except for the formula of indexing public sector employees' salaries. Anything else?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35510	Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35511	What we didn't hear, and as a matter of question, was about what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did specifically, so that you have reason to be satisfied, that is, to believe that this report... On the basis of which, therefore, the IMF report is positive. When you mentioned reform of the pension system, we have also commented today on your statement regarding the reduction of the number of pensioners as one of the items concerning the comprehensive reform of the pension system. First of all, it is unacceptable for us to bring into the same context of the credit arrangement with the IMF and the comprehensive reform of the pension system, because we believe that the pension system must be economically sustainable, in order to economic development of the state. You will likely answer whether, as was also necessary in the context of the upcoming reform, the model of harmonising the growth of the average wage and pension, i.e. the number of pillars of the pension system, the structure of the funds, the participation of the funds in GDP, etc. What may be problematic in this whole story is the fact that only 18% in Serbia went on a regular pension, while everything else went on some other grounds. We're interested in whether your planned reform of the pension system might also have been considering a model represented in Chile, which is a platform for the functioning of the pension system?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35512	Mrs Dragutinović, you have to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35513	I would once again answer your question about what this particular government has fulfilled. I'd like to remind you of a few things. If you look at what is planned with the program and what has been achieved, you will see that it has been better achieved in all elements. I'm not saying right and I'm not saying great, but I'm saying better. The economic downturn of 4%, it is 3%; inflation of 8.5% is planned; it is lower; it is planned for a fiscal deficit of 4.5%; it is 4.2%; it is planned for a balance of 8%; it is 5.5%. In all the elements we've done better than what was planned with the government program. As for the fact that I said the point is that the number of pensioners is decreasing, I don't think I've ever said that. I said that the essence of every pension reform is stricter conditions for obtaining pension rights. I said we should slow down the inflow of new pensioners. You'll admit, that's what I said. You can check that out. You'll admit there's a big difference between those two sentences. If you ask me what is essential and what is agreed, I will tell you those three points of parametric reform that are agreed and which will essentially slow down the inflow of new pensioners. Your finding that 18% of pensioners have gone to regular retirement is not true, because you retire when you meet different conditions, or internship or age. So 18% of pensioners are those pensioners who left with a full-time job – 40 years, men. So some people simply reached the age limit and because they met the retirement conditions, they retired. The fact is, we have young pensioners, which means our average pensioner is under 60, 59 years old. What I want with this reform, the first change is that this minimum age increases. The minimum age was up to 53 years. It's 58 years old and it'll be done gradually. Also, the length of work for women has been increased: 35 years old, now 38 years old. Only those two measures will affect, to repeat, the reduction in the number of new pensioners, and there is no reduction in the number of pensioners until then. The third thing, it's really a revised right to a benefit pension; it was mostly focused on one sector, it's a security sector, and it's going to be a very small number of people who can go on this basis. All in all, in the period until 2020, thanks to all these measures, the effect of saving on the basis of a smaller inflow will be over 20 billion. That's what's agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35514	Do you want an answer statement? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Just sign in, Mr. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35515	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my questions will be brief and clear and it is addressed to Mrs Dragutinović, i.e. The Ministry of Finance. My question concerns restitution, i.e. How long did it take to write restitution laws? I ask this question because we had a firm promise from the Secretary-General that by the beginning of this year, the law would be in the assembly procedure. I believe that the adoption of this law, with the law opening the files, is one fair deviation from the communist heritage and an honest indicator of how ready we are as a people for national reconciliation, but also for the EU. I would take the opportunity to say that the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement and by written and oral means have addressed the Privatisation Agency on the issue of selling assets that should be subject to restitution or denationalisation, but unfortunately we have not yet received any answer. I hope it is only the Agency's fault and that in the future, at least the state institutions will show a little more respect for the MPs and this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35516	Who wants to answer? Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35517	I must say, there are indeed two very sensitive laws that were to be found in parliament at the end of 2009. Please understand, it is really two very sensitive and connected matter – one law on public property, and the other is the law on restitution. We even wanted to enter the Assembly at the end of 2009, at least with one law, but then in each other's consultations, we realized that it was best that these two laws go in the package. So, I'm asking for a little more patience, the version of the restitution law is over, but it's still harmonizing. A little more patience, and I think we'll deliver in the first half of 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35518	Thank you. Would you like a comment or an additional question, Mr Gojkovic? No, I don't. ) Mrs. Vesna Pesic asked that the question she was planning be asked by Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35519	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Cvetkovic, I will ask this question not because it has a personal character, but because I represent a parliamentary group here. I hope that everything that you've had to hear as a criticism is different from the criticism that we've been making, in fact, an indication to all of us how wrong we are when we're trying to turn a new page of this country's life without clearing up with what was wrong and what remains behind us. That's why you here have to answer the question – who gave the Sharics ID? You can't answer that question, because you don't know who everyone left in the system that's been accounting in the country since 2004 with everything that's positive and worth it. That's why we can't live the way all other societies live, run with positive energy and focus on positive goals. I know that you, Mrs. Malovic, cannot answer some questions because you are bound by the law. If we have managed to endure to this day, I believe we will have the strength to transform Serbia so much that everyone in this country becomes clear how pointless that policy driven by frustration and hatred is. I don't think either of us is an angel or a sinless one, but I'm sure this society can't be the hostage of that policy that works by running away or by letting it escape its responsibility. Since 2003, and the assassination of the Prime Minister has satanicized everything that has had the ambition of change in the country. Your government was made not only to reconcile the two regimes that were eager for power, but primarily with the ambition to have something positive happen in this country. What you did positively, we sincerely supported it. We don't have a problem with your idea of clearing up with crime in the country, we're just warning you that you're wrong when you think that crime is without its foundations, they're political. That's why we can't find twenty intellectuals to say in this country why it's important to face themselves, but we'll find 200 who lie to the country, denying it the right to change. So now the Dacic party, which has been controlled for five years by the police ministry, and the BIA, and the Ministry of Industry and the Agency for Privatisation, all that breathes and walks in this country, asks a pamphlet of questions, so that their responsibility for what you inherited as a government, regardless of whether we are talking about thieving and chaos in Kosovo, about crime in the economy, about the catastrophic privatisation of NIS. You yourself, Mr. Skundric, said you would never sign such a contract. That's what your president said. Until we're clear here, in a political way...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35520	Time. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35521	I must say, I've been looking forward to this session with great patience. I've had a number of questions these days asked by the opposition MPs and I've come very oran to answer questions, but you haven't given me a chance, and now I've called to try to take a little bit of a turn. As much as there is music for us in the government for the ears of the opposition in this House, I don't think today is the day for it. We came here today to answer the right questions with competent answers and I am so sorry you didn't give us the right chance. Indeed, as an experienced parliamentarian, who has been an MP for seven years, I regret that this opportunity is not being used. This is a unique opportunity, because when I was an MP, I had no opportunity to see any prime minister in the Serbian parliament with this number of ministers. Do not have a dilemma at all that we will do everything, as we do, to expose the background of all crimes and what hurts us most, and that is the murder of Zoran Djindjic. As impossible as it may seem, the fire still burns. As much as someone wants it forgotten, believe me, we don't forget that subject, even though we're dealing with new topics. I can't support being put on the stand as a grudge that we're dealing with cross-border organised crime. There is no country in the world that can deal with it unless it cooperates. I would remind you that in Zagreb, the procedure under trial for the murder of Ivo Pukanic, where our judiciary, police, the prosecution made a truly immeasurable contribution to the truth. We have not told Croatia that it solves issues within its country, we have already tried to help, and we are helping. We expect that even in matters that concern us indirectly... Regardless of the address of housing, the residence of some criminals in Serbia, this is not only a question of Serbian security, but it is a matter of a much wider context, Europe, even the world. I am taking the opportunity to invite Parliament to hold a session of the Security Committee, because I have repeatedly received questions in writing and here orally from the Committee President, for whom I do not know whether he has delegated his personal questions or questions as such. I was the chairman of the Security Committee myself, but I didn't abuse that position to ask questions without being present when the minister was here. I'd like to come here with my team and tell you what's going on in the defense system, which obviously doesn't cause attention, because that reform, as far as I can tell, nobody is bothered and no one is a thorn in the eye. What's important is, this is a year of major reform, this is the year in which we're going to transform the defence system into a professional defense system, and in the following year, we're going to have a professional army. I am convinced that the Security and Defence Committee, if they want the others in parliament, needs to get information about what we are doing in our system. I am truly willing and I am giving the initiative to discuss this, because, believe me, there are great strangers in both the public and the parliament, and we want to bring this reform closer to you, because it is a reform that concerns all young people, their parents and, besides, parliament first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35522	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic wants to comment and ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35523	I agree that there is nothing better for power than division within the opposition, but I think, and that we are not in this room, that everyone in Serbia understands the great difference between us and this criminal association that has walked into politics, in a criminal country where such a thing was possible. I call it a criminal association because it's a legal qualification, not a political one. I hope the public finds out what some of us already know, and I don't doubt that we are, unfortunately, right when we claim everything in the way we do it, very directly. You're wrong, Mr. Sutanovac, because this isn't a fight within the opposition. This is satanicizing a certain policy. The moment you try to change the country, look at the position you're starting from - challenged by all the criteria, except for the ones you're supposed to be discussing, so each of us for the previous fifteen or twenty years has received some of his “coffer”, only those who cause the problem in which we live are spared all of that. They're not even MPs here in the Assembly, but they're using the phone to dictate questions to people who couldn't survive without a pay and share here with us this week as they know and can. For you, Mr. Sutanovac, one simple question. As part of the fight against organised crime that does not know the borders, there is no question, firstly, of political responsibility for someone on the other side of the border, without first asking the question of political responsibility for ourselves. We have no doubt that anyone who has anything to do with crime should pay a full price for it, regardless of his function. This first applies to us, because of this and today we live in this country, but we think there is no reason to deny Serbia the truth that is very well known to many of us, so that Mirko Cvetkovic would have to answer the question of where his ID card came from or how someone got his passport. That's what this is about. The president of the state went out with one initiative. Look at the support he's come across and the resistance he's faced. That's what we're worried about. When one party of the ruling coalition says that there are informal centres that bring it down, we're interested in what the centers are? We know very well what the consequence of such an initiative is. So we expect, first of all, the Minister of the Police and the Ministry of Justice to respond once more to those who are not ready to listen, who are blinded to themselves, to what the institutions have answered when they have abused them. And we have to keep changing this country, by separating us from those who don't belong with us, and we're dirty because we've been with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35524	Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35525	The least you should expect from us is that we are arbitration in parliament. I don't think that's our job. I'm sorry the atmosphere here is like this, and I'd probably be in a lot of trouble with what you're saying, but it's not my job. I personally know what conflict with the past means and what it means to talk about the future with the strings that exist, but I am not giving up, and I will never give up. You know for a fact that our president said that we have to swallow frogs, and those frogs are sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller. I say it is a shame that in parliament today we do not discuss what is particularly bothering the citizens of Serbia. This battle you're talking about is not a battle for parliament today, it's a battle that will last. It'll take a little longer than you thought. Ten years ago, when we started to make a concrete change, we didn't dream that in ten years we'd be where we are. It's hard, trench, but I, Mr. Jovanovic, deeply believe we're getting to the finish line. To that end, everything will be demystified, I have no dilemma whatsoever. So if this generation of politicians doesn't do it, they'll do something else. It's the same question as Srebrenica. If we have the courage to face the problem behind us, we will bring the resolution. If we don't have one, someone else will. Someone will have to say – people, it's done, we're not responsible for it. We were against it back then, but it's done and that's how you have to admit it. My position on this issue is clear, but don't expect the government to tell you when it will be brought to parliament, as you said earlier. It's unusual. There is something that is executive, legislative and judicial authority, and if we from the Government respect it in parliament, you too in parliament. None of us can impose on you, nor has a desire to impose on you. As you know, I'm the party's representative who may be the most influential in parliament, but we don't have 126 MPs. We have 65, if I'm not mistaken, more or less. That's what we need support in. I absolutely agree with the fact that it is difficult to find twenty intellectuals in Serbia today who will have the courage to say where Serbia's road route is. There will always be those twenty who have signed the same petitions for twenty years. But that shouldn't discourage you in any way. As far as the questions you've been talking about here today, despite the fact that the police minister isn't here today, I'm convinced deep down, I believe that, and I want to believe, even though sometimes I hesitate, but believe me, I believe that the police are doing their job and that sooner or later they'll come out on a day that's responsible. On the other hand, I haven't seen anyone accuse any political ties. That kind of accusation comes, if I'm not mistaken, much more from that country that you think of than it comes from Serbia. It's just like that. I repeat, we need help for this job, and the job isn't just ours. The consequences of this job would be at least for Serbia, but unfortunately, some of the disciplines that exist among some others cannot be freed and will take little time for them to come to a final solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35526	Mr. Jovanovic, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35527	Thank you. Of course, Mr. Sutanovac, we don't have to agree on everything, but, you know how, I'll tell you what I said to the Prime Minister -- this country has only one government and one prime minister, and even if you don't experience yourself like that, you are the leaders of this country. When you're wrong, it's our duty to tell you that you're not doing well, when you're right, it's our duty to support you. That's the definition of a normal relationship. We didn't play a game to make it good, at least we did it in LDP. We've formulated one policy, and we're trying to affirm that policy. You cannot deal with daily life in Serbia without avoiding the essence. Everything we face today is a consequence. They make you an account for a ruined economy, they make you an account for the unfulfilled promises of those who have destroyed this country and who abuse this discontent to re-launch society using negative energy and direct it towards a negative goal. We expect the government to face this, to seek support to clarify this kind of relationship. Two years have passed since the rally we defended Kosovo by bringing down Belgrade. No one answered for that. That's why we have a new kind of problem today, in some stadium, in some school, in a workplace, and there's a whole series of causal relationships. All laws in the fight against organised crime have been supported and supported by the fight against organised crime, and against war criminals, but we draw attention to you that these are the consequences of criminal policy, which had its own ideologists, who had those who blessed it, who had those who justified it and who today justify it in every sense. And if we don't tell people that... (President: I thank you, Mr Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... They'll stop believing us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-02-25-0.u35528	Since it's 19 hours, I'm finishing today's work. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, you, gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue work tomorrow, February 26, 2010, at 10 o'clock.
