ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36409	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very shortly ahead of the Committee on Culture and Information, and today we have two points on the agenda. The first concerns the election of another member of the RRA Council. I'll just remind you, as you know for sure, it's about the re-competition in front of the promoter in Article 23. point 4 of the Law on Broadcasting, the Authorised Proposers, the Association of Broadcasting and Public Votes, the Association of Journalists, on the one hand, as well as the professional association of film and drama artists and composers, on the other hand. It is a re-competition, because on 26 October last year we failed to select the member proposed by these promoters. In the procedure prescribed by the law, the Committee eventually had to shorten the list, which was made up of three candidates. The law states there must be two. The three candidates were Gordana Suša and Branko Zujovic in front of journalists' associations and Bozidar Zecevic in front of the Association of Film and Drama Artists. We managed the principle that both groups of associations should have a representative on the list. It's about the agenda item on the election of a member of the RRA Council. As far as the election of a deputy trustee for the confidentiality of information is concerned, it is the right of the trustee to have information available of public importance and the confidentiality of information to propose to the Assembly of his deputy. The board had a simple task, only to determine whether the candidate met the legal requirements. We've determined it's coming true. I would add only to show in the accompanying biography that it is a candidate who absolutely meets the professional and other criteria for doing this very important job. I call upon the Members of Parliament to make a statement in the day of voting on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36410	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group is a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are finishing a set of laws at this session today and, practically, today we have a seventh point and a joint single search. What's interesting to point out is very few of us. We don't have anyone who will possibly provide us with any further explanations, which is already an established practice. We're used to it. It's nothing unusual. Again, it's interesting that we do Friday, when normally, according to our rules of procedure, we usually shouldn't. Why am I saying this? Just let me be allowed to refer to these sessions and these debates in the introduction with just a few words. The Serbian parliament, unfortunately, is a subordinate and subordinated legislator. You yourself know that with the will of the majority here, the government controls the majority and that it has both legislative priority and initiative. If you look at, by law, by other acts and regulations that our parliament makes, who is the driver of the initiative, you will see that it is almost exclusively the Government. By law and by the Constitution, the initiative can be initiated by other parliamentary groups, even citizens under certain conditions. However, there is absolutely no such practice in the Serbian parliament. We MPs are double elected; we are elected by citizens in elections, and, of course, we are chosen by our parties to represent the interests of parties and citizens in this House. Unfortunately, there is no debate here in parliament, although the "parliament" root draws from the word "parlare" - to say, is that right; I have the impression that it is even stalling. That's one of the problems. One of the ways in which our debates and dissuasive opinions are being hampered, in order to obtain the most qualitative solutions, is exactly how we are dealing with the seventh point of the united proposals and the acts that we need to bring. What's the problem with Friday? The problem is what I said, that we were elected by citizens and that in developed democracies, MPs have a time when they can communicate with their citizens, especially at a time when important acts are adopted. You know how our laws are passed. One way to contain the debate is an emergency procedure, in addition to unification and, of course, what is our Rules of Procedure, which also does not allow the right debate and conflict of views to develop here. With the exception of a proposal for a Assembly Committee and a permanent composition of a delegation for the Francophony Parliamentary Assembly, all these proposals, I now slowly move on to them, cause some controversy and demand that they be discussed. If we leave the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which the chairman of the Committee on Culture has explained here, you have seen that the Committee has practically reduced itself to a technical person who has only found that there are no legal failures. We're about as if we're the Legislative Committee. It is also true that an earlier qualified discussion has been held on the Committee on Candidates, particularly on those on which we should plead today and decide, and it is also true that in one of the previous meetings parliament could not elect candidates at the Radiodifuse Agency. I wouldn't be the one dealing with the Broadcasting Agency, but it's an important function of a person to be assigned to this body. It is one of the regulatory bodies that has an executive function; it is one of the few bodies to which the executive function is given. You know he's assigning and subtracting frequencies. It's important here to highlight another fact, and I'd end this. To remind you of how much it is, I can say freely - dissatisfaction and anger, a welcome proposal from the same Committee on Culture, which I am sitting in, that Mr. Vitezovic be proposed by parliament to this agency. All non-governmental agencies, which are known here as extremely active, have extremely intolerantly expressed their opinions on quality, I would say, primarily political, Mr. Vitezovic. It's somehow out of line with someone who advocates tolerance and civil society. If we move on... The MPs of the SRS may talk more about this, so I don't need to hang on to this anymore. You have a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. What's been withdrawn... I'm sorry, I didn't know it was withdrawn, I didn't get it, but it's interesting. Let it be withdrawn, it's very interesting. We're getting, as part of what I said about working here, by emergency procedure, here by emergency procedure, it was given to us to look at the decision made by the government. Here's how the Serbian government makes decisions: on a five-name list, with the president, and a stoo reason. We couldn't conclude anything about the quality of these people, and we were getting ready for the session. Then you have a "Blic", which must give you a biography of the president, a member, who is a very controversial person, according to everything that can be seen in the "Blic" daily. I was interested in one more thing – how did the election and the proposal for this composition of this commission, and especially the president, interest foreign media, so that in the Dutch Telegraph you have an inscription on this? We Serbian parliamentarians should be informed of the "Blic" and the Dutch media of the people who are proposing to be members of significant regulatory bodies here! Let me remind you that it is extremely important to appoint members of this committee. But there are a number of things that are for us MPs, which we do here every day and we follow Parliament's work, vaguely, about this proposal. When we adopted the budget, there was no separate item for the commission and for the president at all. When we adopted the budget, then we had a service that allocated 61,000,000 dinars for this year, two million less. Now we're wondering, where did the money come from and a proposal like this? Is it possible that the gentleman who is scheduled for the president will be volunteering or not? Let's just leave it alone, 'cause it's not interesting. But it's an interesting mechanism for us to be offered MPs here. I'd be free to say it's not right, at least as far as the government is concerned. I don't want to blame others who have a duty to follow up on whether or not we're getting quality suggestions from the Rules of Procedure, it's a special story. What, according to this... I hope that the next item has not been downloaded, a proposal to select the Deputy Commissioner for Information from public importance and the protection of personal data. We also heard from the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Culture... I don't know why he's in charge of supporting and proposing, I absolutely don't get it, I can't possibly understand it, I wish someone could explain it. I'll hardly get an explanation, the empty benches of those who point. Practically, Mr. Shabic sent this to us. When you see the biography of Mr. Resanovic Alexander, I agree that there are no legal problems here. When the previous candidate (on whom I was talking about how to propose) was painted in Blica, his dominant feature was that he was the president of the security cabinet with Goran Petrovic, that it was one of his qualities, so, police officer, to speak the language of the people. When I looked at this biography, I thought – here, a serious expert, can even be a scientist, because, you see, nine monographs and then there are 12 professional works. I trust good witnesses when they put this on paper, but I trust the evidence most. Since I belong to intellectuals, since I'm an older intellectual, I'm still reading books, and I didn't hate to look at what this gentleman says. As far as his biography is concerned, indeed, since 1980, when the legal advisor, from 1982 to 1992, works in the Alliance for Physical Culture of Yugoslavia, from 1992 to 1994, works at the Federal Ministry of Human Rights, and then since 1994 you have a whole series of functions and responsibilities, and most of it was in the NGO... To read a few titles, he says: "The global situation and the consequences of the use of antipersonal mines", "Cassette bombs – the use and issue of their international ban"; "The opening and opening of secret files for security services"; "The opening of secret files of military security services"; "People's rights and conflicts in the former Yugoslavia". Since I'm not an expert on military security issues, and apparently the proposed candidate is, as we can see here, I took a look at a publication in which the proposed candidate made a great contribution. Here is an analytical study that he exhibited and published in a book in English, and perhaps there is a Serbian translation of the book. I'll show you what it looks like, let's say, a chapter in which a review of the situation in Serbia and Montenegro is presented by the person who will be proposed. That's where one lapidary language used, which was immediately suspicious to me. He says so - a lustration law was passed in Serbia, and then a formal name, and then an official name, and then a date of adoption, May 30, 2003, and then exactly where it was published. This is the introduction of this presentation in a significant publication, signed by the two sides of the authors as a chamber of papers. Then he says this - when he adopts, he was adopted by an emergency procedure with 111 votes for, and 15 against, and then he says – he proposed six members, then lists the names, not to mention, then adopted, and then lists - the Democratic Party, the Civil Union, the Social Democratic Union, the Democratic Party and some independent members of parliament, and then says - rejected, and then says - one member of the SPS. I'm holding that scientific paper that was printed in that book. If I didn't read any further, it'd be a long way off, when I look at all this, it looks like a report to me. What kind of species are you judging yourself, and what it serves you also judge for yourself. A man does not say: the worst thing is when you are a man of a book, or when you take something that is, for example, a single quote and you break it down. You can see how the same gentleman has been working on a significant project for over a year and how he's painted the situation in our country and on these terrains. I won't bother you, it's in English, so I don't translate, so I don't stutter, here it is, the essence is very simple – the sole culprit for Yugoslavia's disintegration is the authoritarian regime and the authoritarian regimes that ruled before Yugoslavia's collapse, and nothing else. It's only the fault. Of course, many of you may agree. The objective professional and scientific public will not. The historians in particular, who will be estimating from a distance. And how great is the role of foreign forces, foreign intelligence services. No wonder this gentleman writes like this, because, let's say, what is more than his quality in his biography – we see that he was a man who was on a particular course in Budapest in 1994, and we know what courses were held in Budapest at the time. "Bird TV" has a series "Kursists". The gentleman has no academic title more significant, no doctorate, but he has courses. He's a professor at a time before Yugoslavia fell apart. The debate took place about this way – there are 3,000 secret agents in Serbia and the gentleman we are going to propose measuredly and qualifiedly says – we cannot deny the possibility of manipulating various secret information supplied by not only the people in the police and the DS portfolio, who were formally employed there, but also informants. Two months ago, a commission was appointed to implement the Law on Lustration and its work results are not yet available, etc. We see, if he's a previous DB gentleman, if we look at this gentleman's curicula, then we'll see that this isn't far from the D.B. and the police either. It may be a quality that is necessary and necessary, I will not dispute, but I am afraid that it does not need the Serbian Parliament, even though I know you will vote for it, and even less needs the Serbian people. With twenty minutes running out, I will report again within the SRS Parliamentary Group's time to discuss another matter, seemingly technical, when it resigns as a member of the RS Health Council. The theme is inspiring to me since I'm a doctor, so I can't help but answer my word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36412	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36413	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of my discussion, I will refer mostly to the resignation of a member of Serbia's Health Council. So, the first on the list of Serbia's elected Health Council is Prof. Dr. Slobodan Jankovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, who resigned. The very fact that several years ago we were faced with the problem of the absence of a health council and that, through the work of the Health and Family Committee, several times we insisted with the competent ministry that this council should be given attention to this matter being debated and spoken for by the assembly speaker. Serbia's health union was formed because it is a legal obligation under the Health Protection Act. After a long time and obstruction of the Ministry of Health, and, I would say, also Minister of Resorship Tomica Milosavljevic, we have come to the formation of this health council. The reasons for the fact that this very important body, which should deal with and create health policy in Serbia for so long, were, and to me, it seems to have been an illusion, the non-forming of certain institutions such as the Lekar and the Stomatological Chamber, and then the inability to delegate people from these institutions to the Health Council. The story of the formation of these chambers has its episodes, not at all cheerful. I'm not going to deal with these things right now, but something at the last session of the Health and Family Committee, when we received some reports on registration policy, about the Tolak Institute, said by the president of the Council on Health of the Republic of Serbia. So on one of our questions – as the Council worked, where it met, what conclusions it had made, we received about the following answers, which are worrying and strange. The President of the Council told us that they do not have a room at the moment, but that they are meeting in an office of the Ministry of Health. We were told then that, despite the clearly stated legal provisions that the funds for the work of the Health Council are provided in the Republic's budget, he, as President of the Council, does not know how much these funds are and that he does not have those resources. You see, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as the executive government refers to one serious body. When something that stands in the law, which is to secure the funds in the budget, it is not respected. When we get to other things, how budgets are spent, then we have a situation where the funds are used for travel, diaries, bar bills, abuse of official cars, and that's why there's no money to work on such an important advice. It's the state he's in. On the other hand, the Council's composition is prescribed, too, by the Health Protection Act and point 8. says that the Council has two members in its composition from the ranks of prominent health insurance experts and health care financing. One of such experts, at least by this composition of the Council, is the President of the Council, Mr. Professor Dragan Delic, who is an infectious. It's interesting what Mr. President told us on this Health Committee, when he told us a story about funding the health council, about the financial situation in health care. He told us he was a layman from the area, as far as health insurance and financing are concerned. It's very specific here. And there's another member of that council that deals with insurance and health care financing, but we haven't seen that member. So now the question is, who is dealing with this topic in the Serbian Health Council? Do we have a man like that? It's obvious we don't have one. All in all, by forming a health council, I think we've created one stillborn. So something that needs to play an important role in the health system, and it doesn't work the way the law provides. It is proof that health policy and health affairs are the subject and jurisdiction of only one man, and that is the Minister of Health. It's just, let's see what's in the organization of health care, what's in funding, what's going on, what's going on, how many of these things are going on, how many months are going on, and the story is about the flu pandemic, how many vaccines have been obtained, how much has been spent, what's been told in front of that pandemic. So who then and in what way has confused the population of Serbia? Who said that in Serbia millions of people will suffer from this flu? Who ordered three million doses of vaccines based on such statements? How many of these vaccines have been used? Why didn't the vaccination work? Why was all the guilt transferred to the profession? Why did the minister at first say that all those who are vaccinated and those who are not vaccinated must sign it? Why was that signature necessary? Why did the minister say that prior talks were held with all vaccine suppliers before obtaining the vaccine in his statement "The Voice of America" and that with one agreement to buy three million doses of vaccines from them? So that was June of 2009. Three million doses of vaccines have been purchased, it has been said to have been done from the budget reserve, and a total of 150,000 vaccines have been spent. What about the rest of those vaccines? How much did it really get into Serbia? Will the state have any obligations to the supplier? And finally, a very important question: who is the importer? What company is this? Whose company is it? We heard various discussions here at the assembly pay phone, that it was Mr. Miskovic's company. So, if that's the case, and we have no reason not to believe it, Mr. Miskovic feeds us, Mr. Miskovic sells cars, Mr. Miskovic treats us... It's that story about tycoons and the tycoon government, so the government is formed. On the other hand, there are serious disorders in the health system. That's what the press is talking about. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, when severe patients, what malignant patients are, in an elite health institution, deny the right to what is prescribed by mandatory insurance! There are waiting lists for malignancies. We're closing a contract with foreign security while our patients are waiting. It has been said in recent days that certain diseases, which unfortunately are on the rise in Serbia, will be resolved by foreign countries, in Turkey, the Netherlands. What's he saying? He's saying that our system as well as it's conjecture can't respond to this request. We have another kind of problem, which we keep pointing out, we don't have a talker at the Ministry of Health. Why is the other sector, therefore private, not involved in the health system? Why does he keep running away from that kind of training? In the end, what is the key question: what is real consumption in our health care? If we do not have an answer to these questions, is spending in Serbia's health 6% of gross national income, according to the minister, or is it 8%, according to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, or is it 12%, according to the World Bank. If you have no valid information, then you have nothing. At the last meeting of the Health Committee, we discussed registration policy and we came up with interesting data, that in addition to having five medical schools, four dental schools, we do not know the real state and the actual number of people employed in Serbia's health, whether this number of 114,000 people, as claimed by the National Health Council, or 120,000, according to the Ministry, or 105,000, as other institutions claim. If you get information that the total number of mid-medical personnel is, according to research done by the Republic Health Council, 60,000, and you get from the Chamber of Doctors and Sisters that it's 70,000, it's simply a question of where those 12,000 people are born? Where'd they go? How come we have different data? Are people paying you or are they volunteers? We don't have any clear signals on that. It is a very important issue, which the public of Serbia is buzzing and discussing, health corruption, and those of the small and those of the system. See how the Ministry of Health treats the problem – it claims to be a controversial phenomenon. Why do international institutions put Serbia's health at the top of corruption? Why do you claim one thing, and the truth seems to me, on the other side? Why don't we today, when we're discussing this issue, have representatives of the Justice Department here? Are there more important things to do than discuss these things? Probably exist, these more important jobs are probably travel through Italy, etc. So, the Assembly as a legislative body, which gets various laws, like it was about public health, and now we get about the network plan, gets laws that are completely out of line. One of the basic problems that plagues Serbian health is that there are no patients' rights. There's an illusion, there's a surrogate called the patient's rights protector. I've talked about this problem several times. Who's the real patient's protector? The person who's employed in that health care facility, usually a lawyer. When a patient gets into trouble with a health care facility for denying his rights, he should appeal to that person. It's simply a question of whose interests would that protector represent the right of a patient? He will not represent the rights of the patient, but will represent the rights of the institution that pays him. Why isn't there a law on the protection of patient rights? That's what we've been talking about for years. What about the European Charter of the Protection of Patients' Rights? Is that the European way we're going? Is that some insignificant thing, that we don't respect the rights of a patient? So, suma sumarum, when you have a theme like this, when you don't have a talker, when you don't have a public debate about health problems, you have incorrect reports, you're counting reports, the opposite between the health ministry regulations and the law, and I'm going to say one. It's a supplemental work regulation. Imagine, the Regulation on additional work and the Health Protection Act. In what country is there a possibility that someone with state resources can do private extra work? Where else is there in the world and to whom is this explicit right given? Maybe party colleagues, Mr. Milosavlevich? Where are the patient's rights, rudely violated? What's the reason to cut the waiting list? What about the private sector, if the system can't do that? What does our Constitution say? You see, in these twenty minutes, it's pretty clear where we are as a state, as far as health care is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36414	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic. You signed up as part of the log-in order? You want to be a representative? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36415	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, from this set of draft laws in the framework of a united debate, will address two legislative proposals. As for the proposal to elect a deputy trustee for information of public importance and the protection of personal data, I just want to say that, as far as New Serbia's MPs are concerned, we do not question the credibility of the candidates offered by Mr Rodoljub Sabic. I owe it, for my own morals and political morality, I don't know if I have the right to do so under the law, but I will say, I would like to commend Mr. Rodoljub Sabic's work on information, at least as far as the New Serbia Parliament Club is concerned. So he went out to meet us and helped us whenever we asked for help, as far as gathering some of the information we needed to work our parliamentary group. If that's what we think, it's time for us to go public here in a direct transmission, too. As for the list of candidates for the selection of a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, as regards the New Serbia Parliament Club, we will not comment on the credibility of the candidate for a member of this council, we will just ask the promoter if detailed talks have been made with candidates for this, how is a very important function these days? Namely, I want to remind you, and above all, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, who is not here... Did he respond to the letter Mr. Aleksandar Tijanic sent him on 28 December 2009? Before you probably interrupt me, President, you'll see that everything I'm saying is within this agenda. So, Mr. Tijanic, I am talking about the Radiodifuse Agency Council, on 28 December 2009, sent a letter in response to Mr. Odalovic's warning, which only carried out his duty and obligation to the National Assembly and to the MPs. I thank him for that, it's not the first time he's respected both the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly and the MPs, he's always done it. I expect him to do it this time. Just to see what Mr. Tianic wrote. If you remember, the respected citizens who are watching this, yesterday I invited the prosecutor for organized crime to take this letter, if not personally from me, probably now Tijanic would bite his tongue for what he wrote on December 28th, and read what it says here. I ask Mr. Odalovic about the last sentence, in which Mr. Tijanic says: "We believe that these issues of MPs, which contain qualifications enough to sue the authors of such qualifications, lower the ethical and civilizational level of the Assembly." So in this country, there are people, in very responsible places, who think it's a reduction in the level of civilization if we as representatives of citizens point to examples of where citizens are being robbed. So that's how far we've come in the system of evaluating some phenomena and the results of some people's work. So, if you point to theft, I say robbery, millions of Serbian citizens, it is "lowening the civilization level of the work of the National Assembly" – it was written by Mr. Tijanic to the secretary-general. Madam President, I think you should come by too, if not in direct transmission, then one letter to Mr Tianic, that next time, if he's in this workplace... If there's luck, justice and law in this country, it won't be very soon, I hope; given what kind of investigations have been launched, it won't be in that workplace. I ask the promoter whether the Council, or members of the Radiodifuge Agency's Council, will deal with this, because what I asked Mr. Tijanic, I also asked the reveiled bishop Porphyri, what he thinks, first of all from the moral population, is that the cube (that word I use, which Mr. Tijanic didn't like), and now it turns out it's also a scam of millions of citizens, aphirms through the Public Service, who pay you the same citizens via TV subscription. Do they pay at 60% or 40%, I tell you that I speak on behalf of those citizens who pay TV subscription. And I pay my own TV subscription on a regular basis. I voted myself in 2002 for the law, which I don't know what it was called, but it regulated the payment of a TV subscription, although at the time, I am obliged to say it in front of millions of Serbian citizens, still in the ears of the bell (and to these colleagues from the current opposition, whom, truth, there is little, I see that most of it from G17), the pounding of sherpas that we organised because of the former RTS, how it worked. Could anyone have believed and could anyone believe that after ten years of this kind of thing would happen? Furthermore, Mr. Tijanic says that no one has the right to influence the editorial policy of the Public Service and that it is a matter of college and editors. I agree with that, I've fought my whole life for the media to be independent, but I'm asking if that means, in the opinion of Mr Tijanic, that no one has the right to say what they think of some programmes at the Public Service? Can we imagine what would happen on Bi-Bi-Si if, over three months, by phone bids, text messages, this kind of scam was made? So, as far as the Public Service is concerned, they have the least possible moral responsibility. It doesn't matter here at all that state and judicial authorities are going to investigate who took part in all this, but they broadcast every night for three months. I was just warning you something was wrong. Do you want me to tell everyone when I got a bell in my head? I stopped by a small family that doesn't have the bread to eat as much as I can, and I saw they don't have to buy bread, and the martyrs turn it ten times for the evening. I don't know what that is, seventy-eighty dinars. That's when I said it was a disgrace and a shame, that it was stealing, that it wasn't true, that it wasn't justice. No one reacted. It took three months to pass, to rob a million citizens, to trick them. Now they should be organized into some groups, individually or grouply to sue. Who are they suing? Why do I keep mentioning a special prosecutor? To take this letter and read it. A lot of things Tijanic wrote here. If he knew what was going to turn out, he certainly wouldn't. I'm not talking about his criminal responsibility, or anyone from RTS or anyone at all, it's a matter of investigating organs, I'm talking about moral responsibility. It is a public service, which is paid by all Serbian citizens. Now he's talking about this structure in this response here; I hope all fellow MPs get it, if not for anything else, because I'm not going to take a pat on the shoulder anymore, congratulations on the halls, but I expect all the MPs to come out here because they think the same way I do, 99.9%. Here, I'm looking at my G17 colleagues, since they're the only ones here today from the ruling coalition. Everyone thinks the same thing. Then let's say so. It's a good thing the state authorities started, this is about restoring trust in the justice system. We are obliged, as MPs, to support this action. See what Mr Tijanic says in his reply: "From the rest, 20% of the revenue goes to the Republic of Serbia's budget." If the Public Service has been zealously fulfilling its obligations, 20% of these funds have already been paid into the state budget. Deputy Secretary General, write a question. A question for Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister -- how does she think that money can be returned to the deceitful citizens of Serbia? Do all citizens need individual, or will the Public Service, the Ministry of Finance and others who have participated in the chain, deliberately or unwittingly, consciously or unconsciously... Whoever is responsible, who has conceitedly committed this theft or fraud, will answer, but many, knowingly or unconsciously participated. It doesn't justify them, and it doesn't release them. I've activated and pointed to the moral side of that, that the public service, which doesn't have a school program... We've all grown up, even though the MPs of my age, there's a lot of us here, thank God, with the school program. I watched it when I was 25, not because I didn't learn anything, but because it was good and interesting. We don't have that now. What do we got? Next says Mr. Tijanic – "48 hours wedding", it is in the top ten shows. What's that supposed to mean? If you play a porno movie at 10:00 p.m., it'll be the most watched show in television history. What kind of answer is that? What is this system of moral values? Do I need to remind all of you here, especially he wants to remind you of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, which is the only one here that has more than 30% less of the gender represented, not to say women, that in this show "48 hours of wedding" violence against women is promoted through a charming explanation – well, it's no big deal if a woman slaps. I may be speaking with excess emotion right now, but I'm a child of divorced parents, I know what I'm talking about. But he doesn't know Tijanic and he doesn't know RTS, and he doesn't know many NGOs, who mildly responded to it by fearing the rapist and the bully at the director of the Public Service. Now we've seen that he's just a coward, and he's pushed a speaker over there to read three sentences of a unmistakable statement. I call him publicly again -- don't make unmistakable statements, Comrade Tijanic, according to some rumours about the insidiousness of New Serbia's MPs. We're not insidious, I think we're honest, honest and brave because we point to this and we timed it. I don't want anyone to realize that that's what we want to get some political points for. This better be off the air on December 28th. What does management and college say? I'd love to see who's hiding in that management and college. Who's president of the program council, I know that, it's one of our colleagues here, but I'm not going to talk about it today because my colleague isn't present. And if it was legal in the end, what kind of message is it that the gambling at the Public Service is being promoted? How many people realized and thought that maybe their existential problems, their sad fate, we see what kind of state we live in, and what kind of economic problems can it solve for the evening? Shouldn't we promote employment, work, learning, in this way earn something? I asked if the law on gambling was respected. Do you know how many Serbian citizens you can convince at this time that the Serbia lottery is not involved in this? Not one percent. Here, let a survey be made, and it will show that over 90% of Serbian citizens think the State lottery is involved in this. Look, in the last sentence (I hope the deputy secretary will multiply this letter and deliver it to all his colleagues) he says: “We believe that this distribution of money alone justifies the existence of a telephone bid at the Public Service. ” That's what Comrade Sasa Tijanic says. "The prize game is being conducted in accordance with the Law on Games on Happiness. “ That’s what he says on December 28th. What do we do now? Do we have a responsibility here, too? Do I have a responsibility because I haven't spoken more strongly, regardless of the insults we suffer from Director Tijanic, Director General of RTS? Were the other parliamentary groups supposed to be... Do they have party members, voters, voters, colleagues and neighbors who have been deceived in this way? See what they say now, what they used for – one part has already been paid for a new women's safe house. I ask the Public Service and Tijanić – for what women's safe house and what is this amount? Listen further: in co-operation with the Ministry of Education, a list of remote rural schools will be completed to help. Poor remote country schools if they go to sleep on this, that's how they help each other. If there are funds, if something is paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, should our children sit in benches bought from money that has deceived millions of Serbian citizens? Do the Ministry of Education, Government, Assembly, Educational Workers, Children and Parents deserve it? Gentlemen, fellow MPs, this is not a naive story at all, this is a paradigm, this is a symbol of Serbia in which we live, that from the Public Service, and I don't forget that it was on other televisions, I don't want to mention them for one reason only, these are private televisions and I hope that they will be dealt with by the state authorities... But as for the Public Service, which is paid by Serbian citizens, what is our obligation? We passed the law, and I voted for it, there are a lot of MPs here in 2002 in the National Assembly. I'm not against it right now, maybe I'm in the minority, maybe most of the citizens of Serbia are in the way of the impose called a TV subscription. My belief is that there should be one television, called the public service, called it state television, whatever, there's something from our people's history, there's a school program, it's not just commercial television, but something like this, what's done, this isn't a mess and a shame, this is a scandal. Do we hear a single sentence every night at that public service, a single single video – “Your right to know all”? So we can find out at that public service and whether the President of France is getting a divorce and whether he has found a new wife, that's important for the citizens of Serbia, but we can't find out how much the Director of the Public Service has, how many journalists he has brought in, how many apartments are divided into the Public Service, by which criteria and according to which competitions. We can't know that. Is that a mix-up in editorial policy? It's not. I'm deeply convinced it's not. As representatives of the public, and I speak on behalf of citizens who pay a TV subscription, we have the right to know how much money we spend every month through an electricity bill like a TV subscription or a TV fee, as who calls it. As far as New Serbia's MPs are concerned, we will not give up on this issue. I think that the citizens of Serbia, and you, too, fellow MPs, have convinced that some of the issues are difficult for us to give up here. Thank God, we're getting encouragement, and I mean all Serbian citizens and all the MPs, that it's worth fighting for, that we shouldn't give up, not in the workplace, not in the local community, or anywhere there's an injustice. It's worth fighting for. I know that for now in our poor country, in most cases, individuals who seek justice do not satisfy their justice for the system, because of the policy that is being conducted in this country, but let this be an example, not because I was saying it. This is what the other MPs knew, I wasn't the only one who knew what was going on, that it wasn't moral. I'm not talking about crime, let the state authorities determine it. So it's not moral to gamble promoted to the Public Service, it's not moral to have a 48-hour wedding show, where violence against women is promoted. It's not normal and we have to do it together, and I'm sorry that he's not president here, Mr. Vice President, to put together a joint statement, as the National Assembly, to condemn it once before, and not to be afraid that Sasa Tijanic is going to let us go tonight in Dnevnik. Last night we weren't even a second, like the National Assembly. Is this his private property or is this Public Service the property of all Serbian citizens? We are representatives of all Serbian citizens here. It's not his grandfather and his father-in-law. So, at the end of this twenty-minute presentation, I repeat, Comrade Tianic, you must muster up a little courage, don't push down the poor pickers, who are stuttering and can't read a three-word statement, come out, this is worth a special show, to show up, so you might catch a fly in some studio. This is one time an honorable and moral man, and the second time he's in Moscow, with your "mom" Mira Markovic. We've been up since the '90s. We fought for democracy, freedom of information, and we didn't forget all that. It's our fault that you're in that place. That's why this is happening. That's why I'm talking, 'cause I'm a little bit guilty about what, at least some thousandths of my influence, that man is where he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36416	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36417	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with two members of the Rules of Procedure, which are Article 27, which empowers you to chair the National Assembly meetings and Article 98, which says you can terminate work because of the lack of quorum, the need for consultation, or in other cases when the National Assembly so decides. Today we're discussing five...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36418	Mr. Sarovic, you can advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure right after it's done. I sat here six and a half minutes ago, and it's just impossible for those six-and-a-half minutes of complete silence and a completely concentrated hearing of the MP's presentation to be theoretically possible to hurt the Rules of Procedure. So here I am interrupting you and warning you not to abuse the word you can get when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for understanding. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the parliamentary groups of New Serbia, the DSS and the SRS. According to the order of the People's MPs, the word has been given by MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to welcome the representatives of the Government, but I don't see them here, and they are important to us for certain information, because we wanted to ask certain questions about these points of the agenda, this is a real galatious proposal by the ruling majority. All we have here is Proposer Vesna Marjanović in front of the Committee on Culture, and we expected someone from the government to give us individual explanations. Namely, I will focus on the proposal of candidate for election of member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and I will discuss the subject. Normally, I'd ask some questions, but I don't think I'll get an answer from anyone. Before I say anything about candidates, it is good to get to know the citizens of Serbia what the Agency is and what its work is. In particular, the Agency is an independent legal entity independent of any state body, as well as a regulatory body responsible for the area of telecommunications that has its own authority, which has its own advice. The Council decides, has nine members and they are prominent citizens of the country, media experts, lawyers, economists, telecommunications experts. The work of the Council is public and transparent, anyone can attend this work. But what's problematic and what's worrying us is that today we're choosing a candidate, and the previous candidate's term of office expired a year ago, exactly February 17th. So we don't have a member of the Council for over a year. I ask a simple question – why so far have we not chosen a candidate for a member of the Council? What's the reason why we don't have a council today that can work fully, in full capacity? Is it a dispute between the ruling coalition that did not agree with the candidate, whether there was a consensus in the ruling majority itself or whether it was something else? This is not only of interest to us MPs, interests and citizens of Serbia, which is why the Council has not worked fully for a year. I see, I don't have an answer, perhaps you, Vice President of the Assembly, know why for a year... I don't think you know, but there's no government representative who would answer that question. The other thing I wanted to say is about the candidates themselves. We have a proposal for two candidates, these are Mrs Gordana Suša and Bozidar Zecevic. I'm interested in being an ordinary citizen, because I'm not a lawyer, is Mrs. Susha right, since she was the subject of the ruling majority's interest in the last session, and the possibility of a re-election for a member of the Council, since she's not already been elected as a candidate for the ruling majority? Here I have the stenograms and records that say that of 128 MPs 120 voted in favour, and eight voted against. Is that how Mrs. Susha didn't pass? Does she have the opportunity to run again in public competition for a member of the Council? That's one legal question I want you to answer. If so, did you agree on whether Mrs. Susha would pass as a candidate? It's ugly to play by the name of Mrs. Sushe, because she's one of the most famous journalists on our media scene. The second candidate is Mr. Bozidar Zecevic. Looking at his biography and his CV we see that this is a really good candidate, a quality one, which would probably, taking these references into account, and how he contributed to the quality work of the RRA Council. This shows that the candidates... That is, since they were proposed by the Committee on Culture, and their proposings are the Association of Journalists and the Association of Cultural Workers, they are probably influential in their environments, from reputation and authority. It's not nice to play with these people's candidates and names. I'm sure you don't have a consensus on the name of the candidate who will pass through the RRA Council again, and I expect to discuss this point again at one of the next sessions. There are two reasons why you don't want to appoint a candidate. The first reason is to argue in the ruling majority because you do not have unity around candidates who will pass into the Council, and another reason – because you are afraid of the work of this council. Mr. Novakovic, you did not put the DSS proposal on the agenda before the start of this session to discuss the state auditor's report. According to that logic, I expect that the reason why you won't suggest a candidate is that you fear the Council's report for some future time, because the Council is the one who controls all the media houses that have a national frequency, and since the Democratic Party, the ruling majority, controls all these media, is a great censorship. It's much easier for them to have Mr. Shaper running a full censorship than the RRA Council doing its job. I'll tell you one thing. Vojislav Kostunica left power nearly two years ago. It was only once in two years at a national service, and when you turn on a national service, TV, you will see that representatives of the ruling majority are day to day: DS, G 17, SPS. I'm just afraid to open the fridge, not see them in the fridge, because, believe me, this reminds me of the period before 2000, when only Slobodan Milosevic was on RTS. Now there are Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Mladjan Dinkic, Ivica Dacic and many others. We expect, if you adopt a proposal for a candidate, that council will start working and finally do its job and that you will remove these anomalies in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36420	Thank you. Mr. Momchilov, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36421	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, you see, the atmosphere in our Parliament is the best image of the atmosphere in society, I mean, what significance does Parliament have today, and the debate that we are having here today? The man would say, come on, maybe the topic is not interesting and significant, so perhaps there should be no greater interest, but unfortunately, when we talk about the media, they are strictly controlled today and parliament does not enjoy the priority of presenting when it comes to the media. It is clear that there is a great bias and that for the media the government and the protagonists of the executive authorities play a more dominant and significant role. No wonder we're not here. If there's anything more important to be talked about, then we'll be finished after midnight, in delayed transmissions, which allows itself a public service, which, you see these days, is involved in corrupt, speculative actions, where you take money from gullible citizens, fills the budget, and one minority has a great benefit again. I'm going to rely on my previous exposure, it should be one whole. Someone might have gotten the impression I had something against the cops. They tell me, what do you have against cops? I got nothing against cops. If you look at today's "Nin" you will see that the Bookshop has published two volumes of Tasa Milenkovic's daily, the first Serbian learned policeman. Perhaps these suggestions, which are very similar to some trained police officers, will also earn in the future some volumes of some significant publications, I don't know, but what I was going to say is that in such bodies maybe people from that branch shouldn't be put in. I don't have anything against these people, especially when they're doing their job in a legal and legitimate way. The question now is, if we're having an unnecessary debate here, why are we talking? Why do you Serbian radicals and rare individuals ever take the word, when you will not be published in the paper, you will not be properly presented in the media, what you say will not reach our citizens? We simply must, we still believe that we are in participatory democracy. If so, we MPs must provide citizens with control of the executive power and of our MPs, for two simple reasons: citizens must hear our voice, because they voted for us and they must hear our criticism of the executive authority, because they also voted for that executive power. But there is something that may be far more important, which is that they, as taxpayers, also support this executive authority and us as representatives of parliament. That's why we're talking, and that's why we're going to talk, like it or not; representatives of the executive will be silent, but it's a real situation. I said Parliament has absolutely no initiative in legislative activity. We're just voting the laws here, not trying to create some laws ourselves, because they don't give away party peaks. It's a reality. It's simple, and when some parliamentary group proposes some bill or act, most of you refuse, and that's where it's pretty much over. What I'm trying to say is, I think it's necessary to say, when we're having these discussions, you'd think everything's happening in the government. No, there's the penalty on the bathroom where it interferes, where the new government is already forming. There you will see that for the public service it is more interesting to carry what is going on there, whether Vlahovic put the ball in the basket or not. It's a good thing they're dealing with wellness activities. It is absolutely desirable for strengthening health. There is only one problem, which most Serbian citizens cannot afford, and such a demonstration through the Public Service can be at a moral point of discussion. Of course, we won't all agree. Someone will say it should be shown, that other citizens also see, especially poor pensioners with their pensions and a bunch of unemployed who are certainly not up to the wellness center, sports activities, politicians and tycoon-political-parliamentary ujdura which is happening in Kopalnik. I promised that with a few words, I would look back on the next point that we were given to consider this group. You have the resignation of a member of Serbia's Health Council. The man would say, "What is this now, the man has resigned, the resignation is a personal act, then what is there to talk about?" There's a lot to talk about. The Health Council was elected by the Serbian Parliament. It's an expert organ. Of the expert bodies, we also have an ethical board, which is elected by the Government, we have republican expert commissions that care about individual segments in the health service. Those professional bodies are chosen by the Ministry. What's the matter with the Council? The first and basic problem of all the regulatory and other bodies elected by parliament is to be untimely elected. The health care law was passed in 2005 and prescribed that nine months later the Council would be elected. Of course, the Council was elected on 18 March 2009; count now, let's take 2006, how many years have passed. If you're looking at the law, it has an extremely significant role; it says, I'm reading Article 150 now. The Health Protection Act: “The Professional Council is educated as a professional and advisory body that provides for the development and quality of the system of health care, health care organisations and health insurance systems. “ Of course, when we chose this advice, the first problem was that it was not chosen in a way that needed to be satisfied to meet the professional criteria, on the other hand, that it would be a representative body that could respond to its tasks. The tasks are clearly defined at 14 points. I won't read them. What's the problem with this board from the start? Imagine, there's no one from Vojvodina in a body like that. The Duchess, she wanted us not to, is one of the most developed parts of our country. The medical service of the Vojvodina and how important is the component of the health system. Let's go deaf about it, let's skip and say it doesn't matter. The other problem with this body is that, unfortunately, you don't have qualified experts here. That's where they had to sit and people who deal with health care organisations, social medics, epidemiologists, not to list everything. No, as a colleague has already stated, some of them here have been falsely qualified for membership in the Council. You see, the President of the Council is a prominent infector, and now I don't even have to talk about it, which says he's an extraordinary expert on financial issues and problems. He told us on the assembly committee a few days ago – I had nothing to do with health finances. That's how the falsified qualification was adopted by this parliament, and then we chose the members. Not to mention other problems, not to mention that in this country there are qualified experts and experts from the World Health Organization, the living, who have created a health policy on planet Earth, which are absolutely not desirable here. We can ask ourselves why they're not wanted. The answer would be, believe me, pathetic. I won't even try to get to him. You have the authority of Professor Victoria Cucic, you have Professor Djordja Jakovljevic, not to go further, top experts on the plan of the healthcare organisation, who cannot sit in these bodies. Someone will say again – why did you talk so much when a man resigned? A body that couldn't live in time and barely came to life... I don't want to talk about certain representatives being challenged, not being legally elected -- representatives of the dentist's chamber. It is claimed that no one proposed them publicly, but only the director wrote a name and sent it, so I don't get into it, we have a committee like that. You see, we solve a man, but no one proposes a new person. Someone will say, they have fourteen different profiles, they can work. How did they work? They've had five sessions so far. What did the Committee say -- we don't have any rooms, we only have one room at the Ministry of Health, we don't have any finances, and how do we do it? One of the only concrete tasks that the board gets and has to do is accreditation of the program of continuous medical education. All doctors must constantly follow the profession, attend professional meetings and thus receive a certain amount of points. On the basis of the number of points, they are extended each year by a licence issued by Serbia's Pharmacy. What happened? 3,000 programs have reached the Council. The council is in chaos, unable to perform its function. The law says that administrative and technical assistance is provided by the Ministry of Health. The law says that the Council is funded from the budget. I was overjoyed when I saw that item, but people are completely covered, but they say -- we have nowhere to sit, one office, one clerk and no financial resources. It's a reality. The most professional body, by law, works this way. The additional problem, then what did they do? They resorted, I assume, to consult with the Ministry of Health, to breaking the law. They well introduced a health care workers' chamber into the Council and formed commissions to determine accreditation. By law, it can't be. The chamber is a professional association of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, dentists. Take the law, I won't bother you, no member of the law makes it impossible. But in the state of Serbia, it is possible. This isn't where the law shouldn't be kept. Broz’s saying, the winged “Do not stick to the law just as a drunk plate” is experienced in a dossal reincarnation bloom. We witness it every day. Rough violation of the law. The same professional body, which was appropriate for the health care development plan that we received, missed it to the Assembly without being able to process it quality and qualified and give its opinion. Namely, we have received one proposal from that plan, which will soon be, I believe, at the next session. What are you waiting for? It's only waiting to collect two or three laws, so the Ministry can agglomerated several laws to decapitate a debate, which, of course, will not be attended by a minister. I don't blame the minister. What I'm saying is not the minister's criticism. The minister has shown what he knows, enough time. He's very clear. He works within the limits of his options. Is his survival caused by the government, the prime minister, or perhaps somewhere in the Kopalnik should be sought out by some additional personalities... Now we've had foreign ambassadors, so it's all complete, that "stupid" now really looks like our reality, and that's what's not good. Why isn't it good, to be clear now. This parliament, this council we have chosen as the top expert body, had no strength and had no strength to bring Serbia's country's health policy, means to make the most general guidelines on what should be done in the interest of Serbian citizens when it comes to health. The plan should create a program that we're going to discuss here, and you'll see what kind of program it is and what way it is. I guarantee you that it will be a few laws, that it will be run, and what should happen after that, that from a plan that has been carried out for a certain period of time following the strategies and policies that the Ministry of Health will form and inogate, and then apply, should lead to a good situation in the health sector. It's not like that with us. It's all the other way around. In the country of Serbia you had a situation to have the first strategies, national programmes. And by the misery that they are, there's another story, which is inadequate, but there's no way to talk about it. Now it's going to be on a plan that stems from what needs to be produced. It's a logic that here in the Assembly wants to impose, logic contrary to professional rules of profession and logic. Let me finish. Why am I pulling this now? I tend to see that the basic problem of Serbian society is not understood here, which is the biological threat of citizens. I'm not saying that we're just a bad policy (or policies) of the executive government, and, of course, I'm inclined to say that, too, brought into that situation. There are two major problems: insufficient birth and another reason why I am talking today – high general mortality, 14 people per thousand die, and ten people are born. Then you have that every year for one city between 35,000 and 40,000 people, and there'll be less of us by some million in 2025. That's the problem. What's the problem with that mortality? The greatest cause is something that can be prevented - chronic non-infectious diseases, which are seen in cardiovascular diseases and malignancies. What's the problem? The fact that this parliament does not see it, not the autistic ministry to highlight it as the main goal, to stop the biological disintegration of our people, but to tell general stories that, each for themselves, have an excuse, but do not touch the key and fundamental problem of Serbian society. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. What are these measures that can be prevented? That's what those experts who can't get a place on our medical board know. All honors to others, they are all honorable experts and all those within the limits of their opportunities and conditions are doing their job. What I'm also trying to say, and I'd kind of finish my exposure to this kind of policy, bad, according to the Health Council, which seems to have been understood as just one form and as one tower to mask all the misery and misery that we have in the health care sector... There's another important fact I have to point out. Why am I saying this? I'm talking right now because of the citizens of Serbia because we are in health care facing the rights of so-called. patients. We are signatories of the Roman Declaration. That's where fourteen real patients are named. Our Health Protection Act includes eight of its members. We also have the Protector of Citizens, the Ombudsman, and he has seen problems in the health sector and there is an idea to do a project to achieve patients' rights. What's the point and what am I worried about? They themselves count fourteen rights: the right to preventive measures, the right to access, the right to information, the right to consent, the right to freedom of choice, the right to privacy and confidentiality, the right to respect the patient's time, the right to quality standards, the right to security, the right to innovation, the right to avoid the necessary suffering and pains, the right to personal treatment, the right to appeal and the right to compensation. In a review of the situation, what are they offering us? They say - there is a widespread impression that the medical profession has been working collectively to cover up its mistakes in a way that is most like the getaway of a driver who caused a traffic accident from the scene, with the help of not only other drivers and witnesses but also those who carry out inspection supervision of the quality of medical services. He says – reports from experts indicate that, as a result of this complex situation, the Republic Health Insurance Office pays bad doctors, inadequate treatments, and direct medical mistakes, as well as the resolution of the health consequences of these mistakes, i.e. The treatment of those whose medical condition has worsened or has not improved. This is what the Ombudsman realized was the problem with Serbian health. It's not corruption, it's not that the patient can't, even though he quotes, to go to a private doctor and be refunded. No, it's not all of it, but it's the doctors' mistakes, it's the key thing, and it needs to be examined now, and it needs to be destroyed. On the side of the conditions in which we work, on the side of the pathology we meet, there is no adequate health policy either. All that's not interesting. On the other hand, Parliament is discussing important health services problems today and days in this way. Finally, in America, Europeans and those who are for these NATO integrations... You have an example of Obama wanting to introduce certain reforms in the healthcare service. A few days ago, ten MPs of republicans and ten others, he was in the middle, televised directly, ten hours of debate. Ladies and gentlemen, what I said at the beginning of the first presentation, we're doing Friday, we're doing at night. The British Parliament and MPs, who comb through both homes three times, with three readings, and committees leaving the capital Thursday, go to election units to see what their voters are doing. No, you've made voters watch the Kopalnik, watch what "pink's" and those other public television shows, and that's far from what is real life and the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36422	Twenty-six minutes and ten seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that there are none of the motions in the Assembly today, the Government's representative, so we are not able to discuss, we can only deliver our opinions, and we cannot get answers. My discussion today will refer to a request to resolve the role of Serbian Health Council member. Before that, I must express my dissatisfaction with the SRS Parliamentary Group because this point has been found in a joint single search with proposals and lists that do not have any touch points with a request to speak of. On January 13th, this year, a professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, Dr Slobodan Jankovic resigned from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to join the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote only part of his resignation: "Respected, as I have already announced, I file an irrevocable resignation to membership in the RS Health Council due to excessive professional obligations". Under Article 153, the National Assembly may authorise a member of the Health Council before the end of the term of office, on a personal request. The Serbian Radical Party finds it extremely irresponsible and unserious to give the professor. Jankovic did not know his professional obligations on 18 March 2009 when he was elected to this assembly as a member of the Serbian Health Council. On the occasion of a request to relieve a member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind this distinguished home that the election of members of the Health Council of Serbia was held at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 18 March last year. Article 150. The Health Protection Act is prescribed that Serbia's Health Council be educated as a professional or advisory body that takes care of the quality of the health care system, the organisation of health care services and the health insurance system. Serbia's health council has 15 members. These are all prominent scientists, medical professors, and are selected by the National Assembly for a five-year term. In this regard, I would like to point out that the proposal for a decision on the resolution of a Serbian Health Council member has not been received by the Government, which is formally proposed by law, nor has we received a proposal for a decision to elect a new member of the Health Council of Serbia, which in our opinion is unacceptable in view of the importance of this body in the health system, its jurisdiction and the tasks ahead, and that this council does not work fully in the face of the many tasks and problems it faces. Serbia's health council is a congregation body that should play an important role in Serbia's health system. Article 155 The Health Protection Act prescribes that the Health Council of Serbia submits a report to the National Assembly on its work at least once a year. Also, Article 27. The Law on the National Assembly stipulates that the Committee, within the framework of its work roundabout, that is, the work of other bodies and bodies controlled by the National Assembly, can oversee the work of this health council. The Committee on Health and Family discussed information on the work and activities of this Health Council at a session held on 9 March this year. The chairman of this committee, the prominent Infectologist Prof. Dragan Delic outlined a plan to work on this council, upcoming tasks and deadlines. He stressed that they were solving one issue at a time, and that they started first from the accreditation of the programme of continued education of healthcare professionals, enrollment policies on universities and schools of medical professions that should be in the service of Serbia's healthcare system; they then made reports on the state and activities of the Institute of Virology, Vaccines and Serums "Tarlak". They have raised the issue of reforming the medical profession and have raised the issue of the Banj-Climate Centres. The law provides for the work of the Slovenian Health Council to be public. The health ministry is also scheduled to provide conditions for its work. This is the case in its statement 7. 3rd Last year, the Minister of Health, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, also committed. But the members of the Serbian Health Council and Professor Delic, held on 9 March, stressed that the health ministry did not provide adequate spatial and administrative and technical conditions for the work of this council. Serbia's health council should address the burning issues ahead in view of the state of Serbia's citizens. Among the many health problems is especially the ones discussed by my esteemed colleague, Dr. Paja Momchilov, who are: an increase in general mortality amid chronic non-infectious diseases, a decline in birth, a financing of health care and health care systems, a lack of a national health account and a proposal for measures to preserve and improve the health care of all citizens, but also of vulnerable populations. I will touch on the population policy, which today in Serbia is completely ignored. Serbia is a country of pensioners. Today, more than 65 years of age live in Serbia than under 15 years of age. If the trend of a negative rate of natural growth continues, in Serbia, as many as 700,000 people will be less in 20 years. Annually in Serbia, a town of the size of Ivanjica, Književci or Čupre disappears, and the population of Serbia is 13 years older than the beginning of the last century. Just ten years ago, the average Serbian household was four-member, and today it's three-member. This is an extremely alarming situation and a priority in solving. We believe that Serbia's Health Council, as a professional and advisory body dealing with the quality and development of the health care system, should urgently propose measures to ensure that all citizens of Serbia have equal health protection, as well as measures to improve the health protection of vulnerable populations. The Serbian Health Council, namely, has eleven responsibilities. In its third point, it states that it is the responsibility of Serbia's Health Council to propose measures for the uniform establishment of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as measures to improve vulnerable populations. As you heard, the Health Council has educated special working bodies, headed by members of the Council. However, no working body has been formed to improve the health care of endangered populations. We believe that the Health Council should be of great benefit to improve the functioning of the health care system, and that this body should bring reform ideas into health with its suggestions. At the beginning of work, however, co-operation with the health ministry is inefficient. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to provide better material, personnel and spatial conditions for the future work of the Health Council of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party expects Serbia's Health Council to see the fundamental health problem of Serbian citizens and its initiatives and proposals contribute to health policy. With this in mind, we expect a specialist in social medicine dealing with public health and the organisation of health services to be present at the Health Council of Serbia this time. The choice of the Serbian Health Council is a legal obligation, which was to be carried out earlier in 2005, when the Health Protection Act was passed, but it was not done until last year. It was not done, as they say, because not all chambers were formed, and it was late with the proposals of some members. Is it obstruction or something? He's also late today with a proposal from a member of the Council. Will Serbian citizens in the back of the Health Council be able to receive adequate healthcare? According to the advisory and professional role, Serbia's Health Council is the highest body in Serbia's health system. Does that bother anyone? Does anyone not want Serbia's Health Council to work, so many problems arise at the beginning of the first year of work of this respected body? President of the Health Council of Serbia, Prof. Delic stressed the importance of mutual co-operation between members, as well as co-operation with the restoring ministry, the government. Is anyone scared by the existence of the Health Council of Serbia as a whole new institution in our health system? The professional and advisory function of this high body should create a health care system, which is inefficient and unsustainable in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36424	Twelve minutes and fifty seconds. Thank you. Mr Branimir Djokić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I will look a little bit at the agenda point, filling in another member of the RRA Agency; compared to the promoter, the Committee on Culture and Information, where two candidates have passed, the Assembly should declare on one candidate who was as the ninth member of the RRA Agency. I have to say that all of this would be okay if it were to go some really regular way, if it were going through some democratic procedure, if it wasn't just one paperwork procedure being conducted here in the assembly, not only about selecting candidates for certain state institutions, but also in other or similar, when it's being conducted in this way and when people are being asked not to wonder whether they're from professions or not. Of course, we all advocate or keep saying that the profession is ahead of politics and that it must be taken into account, and when it comes to the selection of certain people in certain places, then, of course, it is forgotten and, in some ways, the ruling political parties agree that they will put their candidate in the right place, which is currently appropriate to them. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I participated at least 90% of these sessions. My colleagues from the SRS and I have been trying to make a contribution in some way to fill our ranks with the highest-quality people, because we believe that this agency is a very serious organization, with a lot of responsibility. I have to tell you how it goes and how we've come to the fact that we've been filling in one member for two years, so it's been waiting a year for another member, so it's six months for the third member again. Although in these proposals, we received proposals from certain associations of journalists and the Broadcasting Agency, and there were experts who really deserve to sit in the RRA, of course, we dealt with all of this on some committees, with the fact that they did not agree with the promoters whether there would be three or two. All of this receded, stalled, until the ruling coalition found its candidates. What can I tell you, we had very interesting candidates here, such as Attorney Prelevic, who was brought by Sonja Licht, and, I know, Miljenko Deretta, many others have been profiling there. Of course, some are invited to come, because the Committee has this obligation to invite certain candidates, to present themselves, to say something about themselves, next to the biography they apply. At times, the Committee did not do it, did not call, but on the basis of the paper (and the paper, we know, suffers everything) voted and trusted certain people to be members of the RRA. What do you say about that? I'm sure 90% of the board members... As our parliamentarians here in the Assembly very little, and some do not know anything about certain candidates, and they declare themselves and vote for certain people, so these eight places are filled in in a very, very suspicious way. This is proof that, in some ways, when we revoted on the Committee on Culture and Information, we were constantly overvoted by the position, or people who thought otherwise. We had candidates, such as Slobodan Đurić, Velimir Milosevic, not to list some great people who are really good quality and who know the matter. He kept making up some reason, so we couldn't make up a decision, that we had to wait, we had to change some law, a decision for one word, whether it was three or two. The committee is always brought before the final act and it is determined as planned, to pass the candidates the ruling coalition has planned. You know well that it happened here in the Assembly that a while ago she came into the process of a list of candidates where Gordana Suša and Mr. Becejac, a representative from Capca, Radio-Television Shabac, were there, so you saw how it went. Mr. Vienna received one or two votes in the Assembly. Before that, we had candidates who really deserve to sit there in that RRA. What's going on? It happens that we are filling in and filling in, and now this ninth member, that institution that is of great importance to Serbia and the complete media picture that will take place here in Serbia in the coming years, will be filled in. The four years of mandate these RRA members had increased to five years, and then we increased to six years. Please, if we have a supplement next year, and we're going to have an RRA supplement, I think we're going to have the next candidates for ten years. If we consider that we even have candidates now who are in some mature years, the people who are running here are already retired, that means that people are going to be sitting there, Malten, I don't want them bad, for the rest of their lives, as they're going to be. I think this job is very little done by the Assembly and the Committee on Culture and Information. This shows that small emitters in Serbia have been totally choked, and for years they have been paying such taxes, imposed on them by RRA and Ratel, that they can't function in fact, are constantly on the verge of survival. It's not an accident. It is known that one television or radio in one small environment cannot achieve so much resources that it can survive. Now, not to mention, according to certain points of the law, the RRA gave them quotas that they meet, so the malts have to close themselves. This opened the space so that the strongest televisions can work and hold a monopoly in Serbia. I've talked to a lot of these small emitters in Serbia. People were gathering, having their own association, trying to deliver documentation that they couldn't survive in this way, so some small reliefs were made available to them half a year ago or four or five months ago. There were some tax corrections and those taxes they had to pay for their existence, something a little reduced. I think people sitting in the RRA are very little dealing with this problem. If you go back, ever since the RRA was formed to this day, tell me only where, when and in which segment of the RRA advertised about such a media monopoly in Serbia being conducted by large televisions, or national ones? You will now see that there are eight members in the Council, three of whom are from the Faculty of Philosophy, one is a writer, one is a church dignitary and one from Kosovo and Metohija. When the mandates expired in February, the Committee held ten sessions and urged candidates to fill out seats for two members of the Council, published in August 2008. It's all done in a quiet way, it's gone, the elections are done so no one in the RRA has even published what's going on, as it's done. Anyway, they end their story and for the current two candidates we have in the Assembly, of course, they'll get rid of it, and they'll fill it out. This problem in the RRA and their duties, what they should be doing, could be discussed a lot. I think this should be done by the Committee on Culture and Information, especially to see how they do it and in some ways try to direct their work to help small broadcasters across Serbia. Otherwise, those little emitters will have to close, one by one. This is all because the ruling coalition is somehow responsible for having central television, big television, national television, through which everything that needs to be run through Serbia is media, their campaign, and these small ones don't matter. I have to say that many people don't know that by 2015 we have to digitise broadcasting, that people sitting in the RRA have to be out of the profession because of how it's going to be done and how it's going to work. It's a great honor for people with certain colleges, experiences, but I don't see any people in the profession who will contribute to this. Now all I can say is that I would like to ask the MPs... They will vote on how they will vote; in any case, of the two candidates proposed here, we have had much better, more professional candidates, as far as this agency is concerned, and they have not passed. We are getting from a session to a session of one candidate at a time who is taking a seat in the RRA and, of course, for the next six years, they will in some way decide on the work of all the media in Serbia. I don't think that's going to be good, and it needs to be seen if six years should be left like a time in which the RRA will work unchanged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36426	Twelve minutes and fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Mr. Sarovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36427	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I'd like to go back to the one before. You know that I answered, you misread that I wanted to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I actually wanted to make a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's something I'm undisputed about. I wanted to suggest, in accordance with Article 27, considering that you chair the sessions and in accordance with Article 98, which empowers you to take a break, or to suspend the session. With that in mind, that is, to discuss five points today, you should have discussed six, but at the last minute one point here pulled out of this joint search, given the fact that there were practically no MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party, there were no MPs from the Democratic Party, that there were very few MPs from the other ruling parties, and that only eight for these five important points were reported today, and six SRS MPs, one from the DSS and New Serbia, I wanted to suggest that you give a break. Given that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the days for work are scheduled Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and that there are clearly no adequate conditions for this debate to be conducted today, I thought it would be better and more comprehensive if you gave a break. One of the reasons for such a small presence is certainly because Serbian citizens today mark two anniversarys: one part of Serbian citizens marks the birthday of our celebrated General Ratko Mladic and I congratulate him on behalf of the SRS. (President: I must warn you that the right to a word in the congregation is not for greetings and congratulations. Please compare the dictionary and continue on the agenda points. Thank you. ) Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, but I only explained the reasons, in my opinion, that a large number of MPs are not in their workplace today. The second reason is to mark the anniversary of Zoran Djindjic's murder. If you really wanted to honor him, that was an additional reason for you not to schedule for today, because it is a day that does not normally fall into regular days for the work of the National Assembly. However, it is obvious that this is another way of humiliating the National Assembly as an institution, because you are actually sending a message to the citizens that it does not matter what is happening in the National Assembly because you are going to place in the news what you want to place. There are several topics to mark today's debate. One is certainly a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. It is a proposal submitted to the Assembly on February 25th. This is a proposal already submitted several times to the National Assembly and for unknown reasons, as a rule, a proposal to elect a president and members of this very important commission is being withdrawn. I don't know how any of the representatives of the government and you who support the ruling coalition can sleep peacefully knowing that there are no commissions to look after the legality of public procurement, especially given the fact that the finance minister has also admitted that around 130,000,000 dinars have been spent without knowing how, which means that the situation of this thief is indeed extremely large. The law on public procurement is absolutely not respected in Serbia. I have brought a document to show you how the Law on Public Procurement is being violated in the Belgrade City Assembly. Those who deal with this matter know that two legal conditions need to be provided when launching public procurement: one is that you have secured funds in the budget, and the other is that you have a public procurement plan or a financial plan that provides for some public procurement. This is about the conclusion that Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas agrees to the Investment Agency for the launch of an open procurement procedure for the construction of residential and business facilities on the site west of the street of Dr Ivan Ribara in New Belgrade, the third stage... (President: Mr. Sarovic, you're talking about a point that doesn't exist on the agenda. I'll finish in 30 seconds, Mr. Novakovic, and I'll move on to what's on the agenda today. Mr. Novakovic, you gave us this less than 24 hours ago. In good faith, I've been preparing for this debate, which you've determined to be united, to talk about this point as well. If you don't want me to hear what I want to read to the Serbian public, I can give up, but I don't think that's good, Mr. Novakovic. I appreciate the way you run the sessions, you do it certainly in a more democratic manner than anyone else sitting in that chair, but don't follow them. Let us as representatives of citizens, we are grown up, we are businessly able to determine for ourselves what is the best way to explain what we want to talk about. (President: On the condition that it is on the agenda. - Absolutely, Mr. Novakovic. I'll do one more sentence. Public procurement is said to be launched and is committed by the Finance Secretariat to provide funds for the implementation of the procurement and procurement in question. The total value of public procurement is 195,880,000 dinars. It is further said that the financial plan of the Investment Agency's revenue and expenditure, in line with the decision on the City's 2009 budget, under the city's budget for the Investment Agency, housing and community, provided funds of, believe it or not, 250 dinars. Public procurement is launched, the total is 195,880,000, and 250 dinars are provided in the budget! These are the consequences of withdrawing the point of selecting the president and the members of the procurement agency commission. This is exactly the kind of self-will that results from you pulling this act off the agenda. Let's go back to the proposal for a list of candidates to elect members of the RRA. What is doubtless is the fact that some candidates who have been in the process, who are now not on the agenda, such as Miljenko Deretta, are known in public for their long-standing anti-Serbian views. I was shocked that it was even possible for someone to consider this man's candidacy, I'm talking about Miljenko Deretta, for a member of the RRA after he compared Serbia with Nazi Germany several weeks ago on the Sunday impression, and the crime in Srebrenica with the Holocaust. It is clear that Serbia is not Nazi Germany. Even a group of Jewish intellectuals later wrote a letter to Serbian President Boris Tadic asking that no "genocide" be used in the resolution, which, God forbid, would be brought to the Serbian assembly. A candidate who unfortunately passed by and who is one of the two candidates for which the National Assembly should decide, I hope it will not be one of these, is Gordan Suša, who has also been known for her anti-Serbian attitudes for many years. How much Gordan Suša respects the National Assembly as an institution and how much its abilities speak this curriculum vitae which she wrote. When such a thing is written, biographical data are usually quoted first, but according to the time sequence of events. It is never referred to for one year – 1971, then 1994, then 2007, then 1983, etc. What we got from Mrs. Sushi's data is, first of all, that she was born on February 2, 1946, which means she's 64 at this point. If you know you're choosing a member of the RRA for six years, that means you're suggesting that Mrs. Susha perform this function by 70. Women in Serbia retire significantly earlier. Is it possible that you as the ruling coalition couldn't find a better candidate, that you didn't have anyone younger, more capable, more educated than Gordan Susha? I believe she could have, if she wanted, written this resume much better. And the question is, is there no signature here, is she even familiar with this? Because whenever I've sent my CV anywhere, what's perfectly normal is that at the end of all these out-of-date biographical data whoever sends it and signs it. We don't have a signature here, and then there's a legitimate question as to who put together this CV, is it her or did someone else? You know that whatever document is invested in the contest he has to be signed. Therefore, if it had been delivered original and there was an original document with a signature he would have only been multiplied and divided by MPs. This way, Mr. Novakovic, you cannot know whether or not Gordan Suša has applied for this place at all, and I would also advise you to insist as vice-president of the National Assembly that the material is delivered to the MPs in future in an adequate form because this relationship shows the intention of the ruling coalition to continue to destroy the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36428	Ten minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Therefore, according to Article 86(4), the debate on certain topics set out in the agenda of the National Assembly shall be conducted regardless of the number of Members present. That's one thing. Secondly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided the National Assembly with a withdrawal from the procedure of the Proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. As it arrived in the congregation, it was distributed to you immediately. Two minutes and fifty seconds has Mr Avramovic, if he wants to use it. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36429	Mr. Novakovic, I must say I'm really not happy with your answer. Depending on what the current will and need of the ruling coalition is, you interpret the Rules of Procedure. Article 230 says the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. When it is politically appropriate for you and when you have such a need, because you cannot bring the quorum together at the beginning of the work, then you claim that MPs from opposition parties must participate in the work of the Assembly and by giving a quorum at the beginning, when voting and everything else. Then when it suits you, you say the MPs don't have to be here. I think it is incomparably more important that all MPs participate in the discussions than whether they will give or not the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36430	In the case of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to say which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36431	I said, "Article 230."
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36432	You're risking me to apply those provisions that are extremely unpopular, so I ask you not to abuse your right to a word by advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Momchilov, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36433	I'd just like to ask you to tell us the exact time. According to our records, there's a big discrepancy between what you've told us - two minutes. I spoke for 25 minutes, Mrs. Paunovic spoke for 15 minutes, 12 minutes spoke for Mr. Djokic. So something doesn't match the numbers. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36434	We'll figure it out real quick. We're staying at those two minutes and fifty seconds. Mr. Avramovicu, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, it is unclear why there is no president of the Vesna Marjanovic Committee from the Democratic Party. Essentially, these proposals of the Assembly Committee have no one to defend. I think every discussion about this subject is absurd, because there's no one to give us answers to questions. I would remind you that the amendments to the Law on Broadcasting have been laid down for the Assembly to elect two candidates on a proposal from the Assembly Committee. There's no one here but members of the SRS from that board, no chairman of the board. I don't know who to ask specific questions about the criteria for these candidates. This is evidence of the seriousness of this congregation, which is apparently deliberately collapsing. I had a desire and a intention to ask some questions and a broadcasting agency, RRA and RATL, but this debate has no weight in any way. Anyway, I'll remind you that the RRA Council also adopted some binding instructions to radio-television stations on behavior in pre-election campaigns. I ask the question, can I get an answer in writing – who respected this instruction, to what extent, especially in television stations and in what minute? Does he have a list of minutes, say, just for the last year, for all the radios and TV stations? I specifically state this because, it says, all broadcasters can broadcast pre-election videos under equal commercial and technical conditions, without discrimination, only with payment over the current account. Here, please, through the Ministry of Finance, if we can get a list of radio and television stations, how much has the political party paid in the last year and at what cost is the minute? This calls into question the existence of RRA and RATEL, due to some other obligations that are absolutely not respected through the proposal of these decisions. I will also remind you that this, socially responsible government has given huge money to rent the premises in which these institutions work. I don't have time to quote these data right now, but I'll remind you that there is no economic justification and that this is the way the Assembly Committee works and the proposal of two candidates by the Assembly committee to talk about one fact, which is the politicization of the election of these members. So, if we consider that the majority of the assembly committee has the ruling majority, so members of the ruling parties, then this debate is pointless. In addition to that, I must give some concrete evidence. In order not to talk about rent prices, which cross over a million euros at the annual lease level of only four offices located in the heart of the city, in Vračar, in Visnjević Street and RRA, located on the Street of Vasa Čapic, there is quite an economic justification when it comes to the ruling majority and its decisions. Of course, this economic justification is returned through representation in media space. I'll talk about it in the next period. What we also need to say is that the political situation has not changed, and so it hasn't changed, I suppose, not even a jumble in the sphere of information in our country. I will remind you that even today some television stations favour certain political parties, compared to how much they receive from these political parties, I especially mean in the financial flow, plus the promises they receive after the elections that take place, especially in the local environments. That applies to smaller emitters. I will also remind you that the TV "Pink" so that we do not have a hard time watching who saw it, but who has heard what it is today, the impression that Željko Mitrovica has been raping people and nature values that are below every criterion and good taste for decades. Tijanic is a special story, I would only say about him that he is in all the waters of every government; and he could not be justified by this term that the public service of the European service is RTS, because they are not paying the subscription of citizens of Europe, but rather by the citizens of Serbia, and then remain the service of the citizens of Serbia, not Europe. That it's sad that we're the only ones who are discussing this law today is also talking about the list of registered ones, because obviously everybody's jumbled in the media sphere, because of this list of reported ones, answers. I will remind you that during the previous period, we chose Živojin Rakočević from Gracanica as a member of the RRA Council, by an urgent procedure, with an explanation that he lives and works in Kosovo and Metohija and was proposed by the Council of the Republic Organisation. Although we have criticised that after Slobodan Milosevic's death on Radio KIM, he played the best songs, and during the arrests of some Kosovo leaders declared days of mourning on the same radio, he became a member of the agency. The debate on any other candidate proposal has been mulled. However, what should also be noted is that the RRA has requested an amendment to the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36436	Mr. Avramovicu, time really is up now. We respected the commercial, I made a mistake, I apologize. I thank you and Mr. Momchilov for the intervention, which was certainly appropriate. The word has Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, and the time of the authorised representative is one minute, there was no mistake here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36437	Excuse me, Mr. President, how much time does the group have left? (President: Time is running out, I don't understand. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is important to say one more thing about the work of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. I'll quote Article 155. Health care law: “The Health Council reports to the National Assembly on its work at least once a year. ” We formed this health council on 18 March 2009. It's a year. There's no report. What will be fate? I'm afraid the fate of that report will be like the report, the debate on the DRI. That's one serious problem. On the other hand, I am obliged to show the public the result of a public research. (President: I am obliged to warn you that time has really expired. Please finish in one, two sentences. ) When asked whether citizens should be able to treat themselves with a health book, mandatory health insurance, according to their choice with a private or state doctor, 88.8% of citizens declared that, perhaps 3.4%, not 3.4% and I don’t know 5.3%. What do we got? We have a problem, hints...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36438	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. In this way, if none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone who has yet to exercise the right of Article 93, do not answer for a word... Mrs. Marjanović Vesna answers her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few more sentences and explanations. I'm speaking on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Information today, and I don't want some things to remain unclear. When it comes to candidates for the RRA Council, the Committee did not propose candidates, nor did any party propose candidates, candidates proposed professional associations, in particular journalists, on the one hand, and associations of drama and film artists, on the other hand, to make it clear, because there were words that it was politicisation or that they were candidates of some parties. That wasn't the case. The only authority the Committee has, by law, is that unless there is an agreement between the proposings to cut the list to two, and that is the only intervention that the Committee has done in the process. Also, there were questions whether the government should be present at the session today. In this process, the government has no role, by law, nor would this be allowed from the point of view of the division of the authorities and the way in which the selection and operation of the regulatory independent bodies work. I simply wanted to point out once again that the Committee has really acted as the law requires. Our task is not to propose candidates, nor to participate in their choice in this way, but to consider proposals submitted to the Committee and the Assembly by authorised promoters. Political influence will actually be present in the voting day. Each of the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to declare themselves to these candidates and to vote for or against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36440	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanović. (Milan Avramović, from the city: I report to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36441	I volunteered on the basis of a member who said it was a misread exposure, because it wasn't well interpreted what I said. I have to make that correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36442	I'm sorry, that member you mention has his number, but he doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure. Mr Branimir Djokic. Here you go. Just tell me on what basis are you answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36443	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 of Section 2 to intervene that it's not true...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36444	Ms. Marjanovic did not mention the parliamentary group. I estimate you don't have the right to a replica. Mr. Paja Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36445	If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to replicate Mrs. Marjanovic. She said, if you'll excuse me, there's no need for members of the government to be here. Mrs. Marjanović, look at thingsholic, have a little wider diapazone. Take a look at the point -- a request to relieve a member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, who proposes members? Government, Ministry. Look further, the point that was removed from the agenda – who made the proposal that was downloaded? In fact, we wanted to hear why the proposal was removed, which was first unqualityly launched towards parliament. If you think that's not interesting to you and you don't need to know, we think that that information should get to us. For what? So we can do our job quality. So don't defend the government. We absolutely understand that you have this obligation. I also defined this parliament as a government transmission. The government defends itself and rises to heights. I'm just afraid those heights aren't too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36446	Thank you. I've allowed you a replica, but the government hasn't even been invited. The authority to call the government, the assessment of whether or not someone should come, is solely for the chairman of the assembly. At this point, the assessment was that the government was not required, since there are no agenda points to be discussed. I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36447	Mr. Novakovic, Article 104, which refers to the dignity of this assembly. If an MP presented something that is not true, and you do not allow me to deny it, then my dignity has been destroyed by being told that I am not telling the truth. In particular, I have made it clear, and I will repeat that Gordan Suša, a candidate, did not get a majority during last election in the republican parliament (she received 120 votes of 126) and that today she is a candidate again. What she's running for office again is proof that it's a political issue. Because she's a candidate today, she's planning to get, specifically, the Committee plans to get most of her proposal. That's true. There's nothing here that's controversial. That's how you ruined my dignity, so I can't answer what I'm being criticized for. The same candidate in two elections doesn't get most. In the second he wins, at least he's planning to win, we'll see about that, because of the political bickering. Now we have an excuse here that it's not a political question. It is an open political issue and we have already proven this by selecting a candidate from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-12-0.u36448	No breach of the provisions of Article 104. The dignity of the congregation is respected. MPs speak with respect, no one uses any offensive expressions, no reviews and facts relating to the private life of others. If anyone has hurt the Rules of Procedure, I will hurt him if I don't just give you a warning measure now, so that in the future you don't abuse the right to the word by advertising a violation of the Rules of Procedure that he doesn't have. Thank you. There's no reason for replication. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the List of Candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic of the Broadcasting Agency, a proposal for the selection of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, a request for the resolution of a member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a decision establishing a permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophonia and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we've done today's work. I thank you for your efforts and I schedule a follow-up for Tuesday, 16 March 2010, starting at 10.00 hours – a debate in detail on the Customs Law Proposal. Thank you.
