ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36223	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 53 MPs. Given the current weather conditions, it is clear why such a small number is registered in the official record. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 48 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 1/3 of the MPs are not present, which is why, in accordance with Article 88(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I postpone the session by one hour, or 11.05 p.m. Thank you. (The session began at 11.05 p.m. The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work after the Rules of Procedure set a break, i.e. delays by one hour compared to the prescribed time for the start of the session, given that at 10.00 a.m. there was no quorum needed to work. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran Kasalović, Milan Lapčević, Đuro Peric, Aleksandra Jankovic, Riza Halimi and Elvira Kovac. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, besides the representative of Proposer Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, has called for the sittings to be attended by Nenad Tesla, Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute, and Kosta Mirkovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COUNTRY PREMISE AND CATASTRE (principal search) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group 'For European Serbia' - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliament group of SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group of G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of DSS – Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group of "Forward, Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group of SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group of LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group of "New Serbia" - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask all MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would also like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Zoran Bortic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Dragan Stevanovic of the SRS parliamentary group, an international MP, Mico Rogovic of the MP group "Forward, Serbia". According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border and Catastrophe. Before I ask if the proposing's representative wants a word, I ask the service to deliver a card to him so he can sign into the electronic voting system. The word has Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Time and Catastrophe. In the beginning, I would brief you on the activities carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute and the catastra services in Serbia. The long-term jobs carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Catastrian Institute are: the establishment, restoration and maintenance of the cataster of immovableity, the diameter of the water, the establishment and maintenance of the cadastre of the waterways, the cadastrian and the commercial diameter, the address register, the maintenance of the register of spatial units. The new law also gave the Republic Geodetic Institute a new jurisdiction. These are: the diameter of the state border and the keeping of the register of state borders, the assessment and management of the value of immovableity, the establishment, maintenance and availability of geodetic-catasteric information systems, the establishment and maintenance of the national infrastructure of geospace data, inspection of the work of the geodetic organisation, remote detection, topographic diameter and topographic-cartographic activity, the issue and withdrawal of geodetic licences and the central register of planning documents. The adoption of a new law on planning and construction has increased the work of the Geodetic Institute and the work of the cadastres at local self-government levels and defined three new areas. We expect a large number of requirements for citizens who, above all, are related to the procedures to be taken to prepare digital data for the needs of the 2011 census, about active participation in the upcoming denationalisation and restitution procedures, about the implementation of a new law on planning and construction, which defines the issue of legalisation, where local self-government units are expected to face several million cases, and about a large and large core reform obligation of local self-government, to bring two key acts in the next period - a spatial plan of local self-government and a plan of general regulation, which should provide a smooth and accelerated issue of construction permits and regulation of construction and urban parameters in local self-government territory. For all these reasons and for the need to provide citizens with full service and not to be vague in the implementation of these legislations, the necessity to enter into amendments and supplement the Law on State-Administer and Cataster in those segments where there is no compliance with the other two laws - the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law that defines the mortgage. The deadline for issuing an appeal for a solution made in the first-degree administrative procedure of eight days has been replaced by a period of 15 days. That's how we evened out the legal provisions that were defined in this law and in these two laws that I mentioned. Also, this law extends the time limit for the harmonisation of the Internal Regulation and of the systematization with the provisions of the Law on State measure and catastro. During the debate on committees, three amendments have arrived in the assembly procedure to amend and supplement this law. I thank the MPs who have submitted the amendments, and I can now say that of the three amendments, we have accepted two. During the debate, we will confirm that we have accepted amendments from MP Dragan Stevanovic and the amendment of MP Sreta Peric. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to vote for amendments and amendments to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36226	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, MP Jovan Nesovic, president of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the People's MP Bojan Mladenovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction when considering the Bill of Law? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36227	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, we have warned the DS, the government's ministers and representatives of the inapplicability of the State Time and Catastra Act as it was written last year. In the debate, both in principle and in particular, we have reasoned that certain members of this law will not be able to apply in practice. We have indicated that the eight-day deadlines are too short, that they will not be able to comply and we have suggested to the amendments that they move from eight to 15 days (they referred to certain types of complaints and many other things in this law). Fifteen days is an optimal time-limit in which defined actions can be carried out in time, so that we do not come into a situation where time-shares and thus violates the law. These amendments were rejected last year without a clear and precise explanation, and today we have a case that entirely identical proposals are made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is common in the practice of the Assembly was implemented, which is that amendments are rejected only because they were written by opposition MPs. It's high time to break this practice. Each of us writes amendments in order to sort of correct the law, namely to specify, correct, supplement or delete a member of the law in order to make it far clearer and more precise. It is obviously not clear to some that it is necessary for amendments to be considered without prejudice to any parliamentary group. It is necessary to consider and determine what their essence is and then decide whether their acceptance or refusal is better. Unfortunately, in Serbia, where democracy is lacking, the relationship to the proposals depends on who their applicant is. That these claims are true shows and the number of amendments to the parties in power against the adopted amendments to the opposition parties. What is also unacceptable and which shows that there is very little understanding in this House, is a very small number of amendments that are adopted during the debate itself in particular. Their number is negligible, which means that very little is listened to by their explanation, that DS doesn't particularly care when they're spoken of. They simply do not trust what the MPs of the SRS or other opposition MPs suggest. They simply do not want to hear and accept our views and opinions on certain members of this or any other law. We explain them as best we can, to be accepted, because we write them exclusively in the interest of Serbian citizens. It often seems to me that our work is in vain, because there is no seriousness in those people who decide about them and, unfortunately, they are more often handled by who wrote them than what was written in them. I gave a more extensive introduction to the very story of amendments, for good reason. For the sake of Serbian citizens, whom I address above all, I would like to point out to them what things are happening in parliament, that our people's expertise is not respected, that in some way the work of the MPs of the SRS and other opposition MPs is being humiliated. Last year, we submitted several amendments to the proposal for a state-owned measure and a catastro. Almost everyone's been rejected. The law was passed on August 31st last year and then we said that the law would not be applicable in the form in which it was written. Here, after a few months, the entire public can be convinced of the accuracy of our claims, and it is extremely hypocritical that now the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes exactly the same amendments as ours that were rejected. Those who gave a negative opinion, those who criticized them, those who rejected them, are now forced to propose the same changes themselves. In a way, they've admitted their mistake, and that's why today on the agenda we have amendments and additions to this very law. The law, which is in effect only for a few months, is the fruit of party in power, as well as of the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question – who needs laws that only last a few months? Why have the amendments of the SRS been rejected, and then identically proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why do things like this happen? In this way democracy is completely stifled, the work of the MPs and the work of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36228	Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word, as a rule, from the smallest to the greatest? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36229	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we talked a lot about these topics during the previous year. This is not an opportunity to recapitulate everything that was said at the time, but it is a situation in which an analysis of the effects of some of the decisions that parliament has made is needed. As far as changes and additions to the existing law are concerned, to the most extent, they are logical. It is true that at that time, MPs indicated the unsustainability of the deadlines set, although it cannot be considered a bad intention to shorten the deadlines for, say, making a complaint or pleading on the matter. Simply, we strive for a more efficient state and that, in itself, can't be a problem, but the fact that it wasn't in line with some other laws and it's a big divide. The other problem with this law is not the law itself. It is an exemption from the law we discussed in December, when the number of employees in the state administration is limited. That's when we said that the number of people employed in the state administration couldn't be mechanically limited without an analysis of the jobs we expect the state to do. At that time, we said that very often our citizens are facing an inefficient state, with the fact that they are waiting too long for the result and that we may need to further employ people in the administration to make this administration more effective. Now we face the first bad consequences. Article 14 of the amendment and supplementation of the Law finds that the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration will not be applicable to the Republic of Geodetic Institute. We talked very seriously about it a few months ago, when we asked the government to tell us what jobs the state administration was taking on itself, so that we could assess whether with an existing number of employees it could do or not. What's very important, Mr. Dulic, for us as a parliamentary group, I don't know if you're familiar with the amendment we wrote, that a new member of the 12a is added after article 12a. So, practically, we're asking for a first-degree decision to be passed on to local self-government. I'll tell you one particular reason. In Belgrade, the process of legalising lawlessly built objects is now under way. About 200,000 demands have been filed. We run a campaign asking people to legalize their facilities. We formed the Department of Legalization so the City Administration could be effective, so the Geodetic Institute could be effective. We believe it is important to enable local self-government to operate in the first degree. We recognize that argument in the fact that it was once possible. If the government insists that the Republic Geodetic Institute is doing all this, if it is very complicated to change other laws, then it is necessary in some way to regulate this obvious problem we are facing, the problem in the announcement. Because the Institute will be engrossed in jobs that Belgrade cannot, for example, do, as many local self-governments will, and citizens will expect from whoever asked them to legalise their facilities to be effective in the legalisation process. Then we'll have a lot of misunderstandings between the city administration and citizens and between the city administration and the republican administration. And the goal of these regulations is to solve the problems that exist in the system, not to increase them. We have written quite a clear amendment, that the Law on the capital, or the second law on local self-government, decision-making in the first degree, as well as the conduct of operations in the first degree of Article 1 of this Act can be entrusted to individual units of local self-government. The law stipulates that this can be entrusted to individual units of local self-government. We would like not only in Belgrade, but in all the local self-governments that are under great pressure in the legalisation process, something like that to be done. I think we'll be more efficient. The second question that is very important under this law is – what about all the other laws that are at this point, not to say to each other, but leaving a lot of room for interpretation, and then local self-governments and institutions dealing with these affairs are facing problems because there is no coordination in this interpretation, and in one way is interpreted in one municipality, in another municipality, in one way in one city, in Belgrade, and in another way in Novi Sad? First, it leads to a legally unequal position of citizens or companies that appear as parties, and on the other hand, it makes the state a system that has an unequal view of the problems it would have had to have an identical attitude. It's important to us, as an ambassador group. As far as these deadlines are concerned, we regret that they cannot be respected and shorter, but they were not in accordance with some other laws - the Law on Mortgage, the Law on Administrative Procedure, etc. It's obvious that it has to change now and that we need to adapt to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36230	The word is from MP Zoran Bortic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36231	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, the degree of arrangement of one country is measured, among other things, by the fact that the diameter of its land, immovableity and infrastructure transfers has been arranged in that country. The Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, is in this area of state organisation in relative lag compared to the developed countries of modern Europe, for several reasons. Not going into a deeper analysis of these reasons, because they are not the subject of this debate, I just want to remind that Serbia has been prevented throughout the 20th century from regulating this area of its structure due to wars and changes in the political system and state organisation. Today Serbia is a democratic state, which builds institutions in line with the greatest democratic standards of the modern world. As is known, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been identified in the last elections as the European path of Serbia, to include our country in European integration, and a coalition government leading Serbia into the EU has been formed at such an election will. In order for us as a state to meet the standards for achieving this goal and to include Serbia on an equal footing in the process of European integration, we are obliged to build institutions that will sovereignly regulate relations in society and in all areas of social life. In order to build institutions and ensure their authority, competence and sovereignty in regulating social relations, we are obliged to adopt such legal and other regulations that will create assumptions and establish rules and principles that, as in any other European society, issues of direct citizens' interest are resolved quickly, effectively and under the same or similar conditions. It is a long and complex process, which, in addition to the requirements that I have mentioned, includes the harmonisation of our legal regulations both with other normative acts that are in force in our country and with the Constitution of Serbia as the highest legal act. The process requires not only the hard work of this parliament but also the good will and effort of all parliamentary groups and all of us MPs to come to the best legal solutions through constructive and democratic debate to create assumptions for an orderly society and to build Serbia as a state in which democratic rules exist and operate in all areas of its organisation. It is, I guess, our goal to all of us, regardless of whether at this point we represent the majority or opposition in parliament. Serbia is the state of all of us, independent of the current political position we are in today and our goal is the same - to build its institutions, its legislation and make it a respectable and democratic European state. Starting with such a goal, from a common intention to build respectable institutions and a legal framework that is in line with European standards, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is tasked with regulating, in addition to a number of other legal regulations, the issue of state diameter and catastra in the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you that this is not an easy question at all, that the Law on the Cataster represents an extremely important area of legal regulation in our country, so, in my deep conviction, it is a necessary goodwill and constructive debate of all MPs, regardless of whether they belong to the parliamentary majority or to the opposition, in order for this debate to bring together the best and compromise solutions on all issues and to help Serbia in a normative and institutional sense to bring closer to the standards of European democracy in this area. As a result of such a strategic goal, I would like to remind you that the reasons for the adoption of the law on the national diameter and the catastro are contained in the need to remove certain deficiencies identified in the current Law on the State measure and the cadaster and which, above all, relate to the harmonisation of the Law on Preference and Cataster with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to the removal of the conflict of certain legal provisions and the setting of deadlines for the operation of the Republic of Geodetic Institute. Since the current Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro as regards deadlines for the declaration of appeal is not in line with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, conditions have been met for the removal of harmful consequences for the operation of state authorities in the area of national diameter, cadastre, the registration of mortgages, as well as for the area of space regulation and environmental protection. These conditions were created by the possibility that we could adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State measure and catastro. In relation to the existing law that regulates this area, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Catastro is subject to a termological alignment of text and is characterized by the accuracy of norms and their equalisation with other legal regulations and the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Corrections to the name of the institutions, bodies and information system have been made and new legal solutions have been given to determine the competences of the Institute, including by exempting the Institute from the application of the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. The Institute is exempted because of the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the agreement on a loan for development, the Law on Serbia-Montenegro's debt to the International Development Association, as well as the implementation of credit funds for the implementation of programmes and projects in the area of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia's cadastrian system. That international loan agreement also made Serbia an obligation not to take any measures to change the conditions of work of the Institute by the end of the term of use of the loan. In addition, the reasons for the exemption of the Institute from the application of that law rest in the fact that the Institute, in addition to the existing competences it exercises, has received a number of new competencies from the Law of State measure and cataster: the diameter of the state border and the management of the register of state borders, the assessment and management of the value of immovableity, the establishment, maintenance and availability of geodetic information systems, the establishment and maintenance of national infrastructures, geospace data, inspection of the work of geodetic organisations, the remote detection of topographic and cartographic work, the issue and withdrawal of geodetic licences and the central register of planning documents. It should be recalled that the Law on Planning and Construction is prescribed to speed up the legalisation process of illegal objects, as well as the conversion of the right to use property rights on immovable property. These provisions of the law mentioned will multiply the offices of the Institute, as they will have a million items related to legalisation and a multimillion cases in terms of conversion and use of immovableity in the ownership relationship over it. In addition, the Institute is obliged to prepare data for all local self-government for the purpose of drawing up spatial plans. Until the final establishment of a real estate cadasar for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Institute is in charge of building and maintaining an immobility cadastra, a timely and efficient completion of all important state affairs, such as those. jobs related to the implementation of major state projects, such as Corridor 10, Corridor 7, a tour around Belgrade, a "Chinese" bridge and a bridge on Ada in Belgrade and others. The Institute will also face a huge number of jobs arising from denationalisation and restitution procedures, i.e. the return of assets, as well as large-scale and digital preparations for the 2011 census. Finally, it should also be pointed out that the completion of the establishment of the immovableity catastra is to increase the work of the Institute in the process of maintaining the immovableity catastra. In view of all of this, it is right to say that it is a completely justified reason for the Institute to be exempt from applying that law. Dear fellow Members of the People, the provisions of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Ministers and Cataster, which complement the provisions of the current law, relate to the construction of technical documentation for the implementation of geodetic works and expert supervision, as well as to the development of geodetic marking projects and the number of persons with a geodetic first-row licence to be employed by the geodetic organisation. The new legislative solution provides for at least one land melioration expert with a professional exam, an appropriate license from the Serbian Chamber of Engineering and a work experience of at least three years to perform works of cadastar planning, bonitating and commercial land assessment. These legal solutions aim to raise the qualification structure of geodetic organisations and their expertise and competence. In addition to a series of other major amendments and additions to the existing text of the Law on the Crossover and Catastrophe, it is very important that, on the date of entry into force of this law, the legal provisions of a series of laws which have been anachrons and which have made it very difficult to carry out operations in the realisation of the diameter and catastrass of immovableity. The new legal solution also significantly regulates the competence of institutions and bodies, sets out the deadlines in the process, and regulates all other important issues in the area of diameter and cataster of immovableity. Starting with the fact that I mentioned at the outset, which can be understood that no state can be arranged until it regulates the cadasar of its own immovableity, I think this law creates good assumptions that this area is regulated in the right way and in accordance with the greatest normative standards in force in the modern world. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group in voting day will vote and support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36232	The word is from MP Mico Rogovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36233	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would understand the situation that the minister of these 15 amendments and the addition of the law has explained as long as he has been a colleague of Bortic. With respect to my colleague and his findings and all the investments mentioned, I have not heard of the "Chinese Bridge" in all of this. It is possible that a Chinese company in Serbia is building a bridge and that it is probably a viable investment and project, but indeed a Chinese bridge should not exist in Serbia. But let's get back to the agenda. Mr. Minister, the State Prime Minister's and Catastra Act was passed in this esteemed home in August. After a few months, like the mass of other laws, he experienced alterations and additions. What's this about? There may also be a Law on the Assembly and Rules of Procedure and the goodwill of the ruling coalition and opposition, but some rules are denied from day to day and everything is based on the goodwill of you from the ruling coalition. We here at an unprecedented pace bring a large number of laws, but does it make sense that after not six months and after the criticism that the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro has experienced here in this House and the work of the professional public is experiencing changes and additions? And it's mostly about deadlines, like someone said before. Of those 15 members in 12, we have amendments and additions in the sense that the scheduled deadlines from eight days move to 15, the optimal number of days needed to resolve complaints or part of the problems related to the deadlines and interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And this is not the first time that the government has sent us bill proposals, and most of the proposals for new borrowings and loans, and that after only three months, there have been cases like that, in the assembly procedure, they have been experiencing changes and additions, and everyone has been justified as allegedly good laws. There are 25 ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but none are concerned with the lives of citizens. Unfortunately. I think it's about time someone started thinking about it. You have to agree with the finding that what you are doing now with amendments and amendments to the law is a good shift, because deadlines that are not optimal are experiencing changes and additions, and we have no objections about it. It's just that at the moment of adoption, we all need to have enough hearing and no matter what side the comments come from, the laws we make good, usable and they don't experience so often changes and additions. After all, the constitution of modern and modern countries does not change once every hundred years, and with us laws change every few months. All that was said about the State Prime Minister and the Catastra Act in this room and all that serious institutions said, such as the Geoassics, during the public debate on it and before its adoption, and I must say that the Geoassic Association is an organization that gathers private geodetic companies, and you, when we drew attention to you as an amendment to the bill, did not have enough understanding to listen. However, it is good that after a certain time, and given the practical application of all of this, you have heard and installed it in the bill. One of the most important remarks at the time was that there are almost no deadlines in the proposed law. For example, in Article 17. The law did not have any deadline for giving a solution, and it is now provided for in Article 1 of this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law. Or, they were not serious deadlines, which are now being corrected by this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on State measure and catastro. Then, all these provisions are related to the work and tasks carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute. There was then criticism that a number of provisions were contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the discriminatory relationship between geodetics in the state sector, i.e. the Republic Geodetic Institute, and private geodetic firms, and that some legal solutions were significantly undermined by citizens' rights in enrolment of the right to immobility. By adopting such a law in August, the government has led to the situation that about 500 small geodetic companies, which employ about a thousand people, are either before the shut-down or are considering shutting down their firms. Why am I saying this? All these companies are mainly still within the deadlines for the payment of expensive loans for the purchase of equipment necessary for the work on the ground and for the purchase of field vehicles. They haven't been able to pay off the loans yet, and they've come into a situation... It is mainly related to Article 17 of the existing law, where the number of employees, i.e. licensed, is literally prescribed in St. 1, 2 and 3 for the execution of geodetic works and professional supervision, and we know that these are mostly less geodetic firms or family firms... What's the big deal? What's the big deal? None of them are on the burden of the state. By hiring himself or possibly another worker only contributes to the state, the Republic of Serbia, not thinking about him, but given the possibility, because it deals with private entrepreneurship, to live and deal with its business and solves the problems of its family's existence. In Article 17, paragraph 1, 2 and 3. The State Prime Minister's and Catastro laws limit the number of employees, which has led to the very problematic situation of these 500 companies, which employ about a thousand people, and is currently an uncertain continuation of their work. I have to give you an example from real life, from practice. Incidentally these days, in a conversation with one of the owners of the company (or else, the owner is a young private entrepreneur, 25 years old, lives and works in Nova Varosha), I came to know that he plans to do his jobs in Libya over the next two years. It's a very interesting situation. And why is there a situation like this? It comes in view of the staged tenders, which are mostly still related to belonging to a political option, and even invented geodetic firms, ultimately, to do their jobs, engage many small private geodetic companies. Simply, people are not in a position to realise their plans and jobs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of all their will, knowledge, supply of equipment that is still on loan. We have a situation that a man will go to Libya, that for two years, thanks to his knowledge, because he is young and ambitious and has knowledge from this area, he will be able to earn some money, return to the Republic of Serbia, and with the money he will be able to buy more quality equipment and employ more people, because, under Article 17 of this law, he does not meet the conditions, or he cannot get literally any tender and implement further development of his company and the existence of his family. I have to mention Geocarta on this occasion. The geocarta is literally a Serbian brand, it's about quality, tradition, and you've put the State Prime Minister's Act and the Geocart Cataster in the coverage of the Republic Geodesy Institute. With that fact and with that finding, it was believed, and you will answer me, the related situation that we had strikes of employees at the Republic Geodetic Institute in late 2009 and early 2010. It is mostly a problem for people with medium professional training, and you have to admit that this medium-sized expert prepared, regardless of its position, presented the problems of the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is still the realisation of the problems and projects and plans set before the Republic Geodetic Institute by the Government, or the State. Why, Mr. Minister, is there a director of the Republic Geodetic Institute? Was the director supposed to negotiate with you or did you put people in a position to strike a certain number of days? And, on this occasion, I ask you whether the deadlines relating to certain laws relating to this area, which point out these days, mainly the legalisation law, will be moved because Serbian citizens were caught up in the situation that the Republic Geodetic Institute was doing only the necessary jobs, and that part of the job was literally two months late. If you have the fact that there are between five and 50,000 unsolved cases in certain cathedrals, which have been waiting years for resolution and which are current at the moment, do you think that by reducing the number of employees in the Republic Geodesy Institute, we can solve the situation? This number of cases cannot be solved even with the current number of employees. What's necessary? On one occasion, in January, you said that the Republic Geodetic Institute should work better, better quality and fairer. So please, and I will make a part of my comment on this interview in the January daily list. What were you going to tell this finding that in the future, the Republic Geodetic Institute has to do that anyway? I have to give you a comment from a local self-government president. Since the Republic Geodetic Institute, a cadastre, is located in rooms where local self-government is located, it is mostly such a situation in 90% of cases in Serbia, the president of the municipality gives such a finding – the number of citizens complaining about problems related to administrative, municipal, republican affairs is mainly coming from the area of the Republic of Geodetic Institute, i.e. A catastra. Listen well to what the president of the municipality says - I live for the day when the catastre, or the RGZ, will leave the municipal building or we, municipal officials, will go under the tent, so that we will not be identified with the same. It is probably part of your findings that you gave during the January interview, and now, unfortunately, the majority of Serbian citizens agree with that finding. But do you think a counterman in the RGZ, who has a salary of 16,000 dinars, can work more seriously and better? What do you expect from a man who receives 16,000 dinars, and what is the minimum effort he can make in his workplace? In connection with the accession of Geocarta RGZ, the problem was likely to occur automatically, the number of people increased in the RGZ by joining, i.e. by joining, cohesion, Geocarte and RGZ. Once again, I underline what the director of the RGZ will do when we are allowed to strike for us for two months at a time when in Serbia we have thousands and thousands of cases for legalisation and when we have deadlines that are really very serious and when all citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to comply with the Law on Legalisation. These cases are an example that when the government adopts laws, it must really listen to the opinion of the professional, expert public, then it must accept part of the suggestions that people have been making for years of practical problems, not just from this area, but from the entire life area, because the law, regardless of the strikes and everything else, has made quite a problem and led to urban regulatory chaos. What was expected of this law, which is to shorten bureaucratic procedures and solve certain problems related to administration, has not happened. And such a finding is, unfortunately, noticeable in the last period, regardless of the problems of the economic crisis in Serbia. Serbia has been in crisis for 20 years and this isn't something with us since yesterday. Regardless of all these problems, investors as in the port bypass Serbia and go to neighbouring countries, mainly Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia. I must point out on this occasion that Croatia has received a lot of money from credit lines, as well as from Serbia, to solve problems from this area, but go to the RGZ website of Croatia and to the RGZ website of the Republic of Serbia, and you will see really important differences. In that sense, you probably thought that the mass of these problems in the RGZ, which are really standing, but not only in the employees, is the problem with the organisation of the RGZ and that they are used to for years and have gained negative trust in people through the organisation of the facility. In January, you mentioned that RGZ will also have statutes as well as other state institutions, and in this proposal, I did not notice it anywhere in this amendment to the State Prime Minister's Law. Except, Mr. Minister, in Article 14. Proposal for a law, where in an existing Article 199. You add the law that the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration will not apply only to the RGZ. Why did we adopt this law in December? Why is it applicable in all areas of social, i.e. state life, i.e. State and local administration, just not relevant to the RGZ? And the director of the RGZ is the first, probably here someone has promised him that in the next meeting he would be a minister, propose such a cut of employees, that indeed in no other state apparatus and administration such an example has been applied or proposed in the previous few months since it was suggested that a law on limiting the number of employees in the state and local administration would be passed. All of this tells you that something is wrong with the director, that this organization in the RGZ is not good and that we still need to think about the process of shortening procedures and everything else, so that we can make the laws because of people who need to invest in Serbia, our domestic and foreign investors, and not that the laws should wait for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36234	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36235	I thank the heads of Parliament for making a series of remarks. I have to say, a lot of them stand, absolutely. The system in Serbia is not perfect. The legacy is very difficult. This is about problems that have been going on for decades and it's about trying us, which today we're managing an important resort, such as the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and, of course, the Geodetic Institute, to try to cope with existing capacities and to introduce a system that has been introduced in many countries around us for many years. You've had a few very good points here. I have to say, it's rare that we can really agree on a few things. I accept all the criticisms the MPs have made here, and they are about the fact that today, just a few months after the law is passed, we're going out with amendments and additions. That is the essence of democracy. Otherwise, parliaments would lock doors when they bring in, for example. a set of European laws that envisions "and would not work for several years. The essence of parliamentary work is that you recognize the mistakes in the system, which arise not from the ill intentions of legislators, but from poor application in practice, which leads to different discrepancies, changes, by better positioning the law in the legal system or by more clearly defining. That was our intention. We at the Ministry of Environment are people who are legal perfectionists and we want all the laws we make to be absolutely in line with other laws. Of course, we can't always know the whole process of passing other laws, some laws are passed after, but we want the laws concerning the area that regulates this system regarding our ministry to be absolutely legal. For these reasons we have come and said – it is planned for a period of eight days, in some laws it is foreseen a period of 15 days, let's agree to that. Also, we admit that at this point, with these capacities, with the problems we are facing, with a lack of personnel, with a lack of software and hardware that is necessary for those deadlines to be fulfilled, we have to extend those deadlines, but we don't want to get into a situation to tell anyone – I had eight days in the law to finish something, and you didn't finish it, you're guilty. So you have to understand that I as a minister absolutely have no problem having the other laws that I defended before you last year come in this year and I suggest changes and additions, because in the implementation, in practice, I have found that some of these things simply, in Serbia, which is at this level where they are today, may not be possible. And that's, I mean, the quality and progress in our democracy, that's not the thing that takes so much to criticize. Yeah, it's true, we passed the law seven months ago and today we're coming up with changes and supplements because we want to fix some things. That's what we're gonna do. As for the objections to the amendments accepted, let's admit that out of the 20 laws proposed by this ministry to the Assembly, I don't know exactly the percentage, but I think over half of the amendments proposed by the MPs, were those of the position or opposition, we accepted. We did not accept amendments that essentially disagree with the spirit and context or the idea that we wanted through the law to define, but we accepted everything that really is the repair and correction of the law. After all, the National Assembly is serving this, and the MPs are also elected by citizens to help the government fix certain laws, and we have done so. I don't see any problem here. It may be true that some MPs have proposed longer deadlines. It is true that we believed that shorter deadlines were possible and that we were wrong about that. Now we accept that mistake, and today we're sitting here in front of you, accepting criticism, but we're moving on. It is also true that many things have not been accepted. Maybe it'll turn out in perspective that we were wrong, so we'll sit in front of you again and accept those things. So, parliamentaryism and democracy, in this executive and technical sense, which implies a debate in parliament and an attempt to smooth our legal system according to what is the existing reality, is exactly what I am looking at through the quality of this debate. Today we had three proposed amendments and we accepted two. We think they're good, and I'm sure this law, when these changes and complements come into force, will be significantly better. You have also asked one important question, which is the efficiency and functionality of the Republic Geodetic Institute and the catastra of immovableity. It is an institution that is extremely important. In my opinion, it's an institution that today represents one of the symbols of the state in every local self-government. As in every local self-government, you have a police officer, some tax officer, as in every municipality you have a doctor, a teacher, you also have some geodetic guy, some catastre, which represents an important segment of the state, and when he writes that something like that, that means that the state is behind it. The fact is that for this reason, the Republic Geodetic Institute is a very specific institution, with all the problems we are facing today, and they include small salaries and insufficient staff and insufficient training of these employees to respond to the challenges of the 21st century and corruption, which definitely exists. In every interview that asked that question, I admitted that it exists and believe me, we fight it every day. We still have to do our job. As far as the strike is concerned, I've been claiming from the beginning that the employees are right, that the Geodetic Service must be defined in a different way. We did it through the union talks. We have managed to define something that will be their role in this society in the future. But I have one thing to say. At no time has a strike at the Geodetic Institute compromised other actions that citizens are conducting in front of the institutions in this country, especially the legalisation process. For the deadline set by the Law on Planning and Construction, which is 11 March, to apply to enter into the legalisation process, to register an illegal facility, it is not necessary to bring all complete documentation, including a copy of the immovableity catalogue. So it's not necessary. Every citizen can only go to the municipality, fill out the form, get a number and report an illegally built facility. That's enough. Therefore, no explanation that the deadlines should now be extended because the cadastre was on strike or because the municipality was overcrowded with other items, etc., is out of the question. They had citizens for six months. I have to say something, the legal response this time is great, huge. We can say that they're already crossing 80 percent today. I don't see any reason, if it could have been 80 or a few percent of people, regardless of all these problems, to report an illegal object, which is why these few percent can't do it. So the deadline won't extend. For all the objects that have entered the legalization process, and I believe it will be objects that can be legalized, it will be done. And I think this is the first time, of course, we're all responsible for this, that we're really going to finish a big job called legalization of illegally built objects, because we've simplified the procedure, we've reduced the scope of the documentation. Many municipalities, unfortunately not all of them, have significantly reduced legalisation prices and I think this time we can say that in the months and years ahead of us Serbia can finally become legal, at least as far as property and property is concerned over buildings that have been built without adequate permits. I also have to say that we as the Ministry are currently conducting a very intense surveillance of municipalities that wild construction really isn't happening. All those of you who know that there is wild construction going on somewhere, report it to the inspection and help us finally, at least in that area, introduce so much order that it never happens in Serbia again that there are illegally built objects. The urban chaos is also mentioned here. I must say that the activities of the Ministry and of many local self-government are at this point a deep reform of a very derelict segment in our society, called building and urbanism. When we passed the law there were many critics of the law and there were objective fears whether Serbia was able, whether it was capable, mature enough, to apply a single solution that should solve this urban chaos. We believe it is. What encourages me is that almost all the municipalities in Serbia, up to the deadlines prescribed by the law, made decisions on the development of a spatial plan of the municipality and a regulatory plan, which were required under the law. Only a few municipalities didn't do it. What also encourages me is that at this point a large number of municipalities are located in public procurement procedures to determine the designers of these plans. There's one thing I need to explain to you. Serbia, as regards the planning documents necessary for the issue of a building permit, is currently only covered by 20 per cent to 30 per cent. So, you have a huge territory of Serbia and, if you want to build something, when you show up in front of some local authority and say, "Good afternoon, I'd like to build something here, the local authority can't automatically, at the same time, answer you and tell you -- you can build so many squares, so much land, so much floor space, here are the conditions of public enterprises, what is necessary for electricity, gas, telephone, etc. So only 20 per cent to 30 per cent of Serbia is covered by such detailed plans. We're trying to encourage local self-government, some of us, to get this job done within two years, and we're prepared, as a ministry, to co-finance the development of these plans. No one says that in this period now, there is absolutely right, when each municipality reads the law in a different way, there will be no problem in the sense that in some municipalities this procedure will go much easier than in other municipalities. This results in the fact that today in one city, which is almost 100% covered by such detailed plans, you can get a building permit in two months, and in other municipalities you still haven't figured out the law and asked for various resolutions and interpretations and you have complaints from investors that you can't get a license there. We go through Serbia almost every day trying to talk to all the people who are responsible for it and explain how the law works, insisting that all these plans be made strictly. It's not gonna be an easy job. There'll be a lot of resistance. Our administration likes nothing to be regulated and that when an investor appears to you, you draw something in line with that investor's interest. Our administration doesn't like that everything is regulated and that its role in this society is diminished, because this investor doesn't have to come to him personally, to this man at all, but can see on the Internet exactly what plots to build. And that is the problem, and that is one silent resistance that is going on right now. This may be the resistance that lasts in the Geodetic Institute, in the Catastres, because the new law has tried to regulate each of the factors in one chain of activity in the right way and that there are no more creative interpretations of the law and that there is no more arbitration in the decision-making process. These are all the problems we face. I'm sure every one of you who understands that and who understands how important the planning area is, realizes that it takes all of us to work together. In these municipalities that we are visiting today, there are both radicals and advances and peoples and Democrats and liberals and socialists and all other parties. We talk to each other the same way and try to help each other. Tell me, is there any municipality in which, for example, the opposition party is in power, and that this ministry has not come into contact and sent exactly the same interpretation or assistance in terms of law enforcement? So this is a job that is historic and that has to be done. If we don't finish it today, then you, who expect you might come to power after the next election, and we'll make sure it doesn't, you'll have to finish that job. It's simply something that has to end and it's deeply in the interest of this country. Just one more thing to announce, like a debate we're going to have in the next few months. We have completed the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, as a super important document containing a sublimation of all development strategies and which will likely represent a comprehensive strategic plan for the country's development over the next ten years. It will contain all that are the intersections of our reality, the visions in which this country can develop and it will be the basis for the development of spatial plans of the region and the municipalities in order to once and for all planning, which is not necessarily our mentality, introduce as a norm that must be respected. When we're here with the Space Plan, you'll see how much effort and work has been put into it, and you'll see how high that document is and how essential it will help the reform that we're trying to implement. All the criticisms you said absolutely stand. We're ready to face these criticisms and we're ready to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36236	The People's MP, Mico Rogovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36237	Mr. Minister, I'll be very brief. We are familiar with the fact that, at the end of the day, Serbia's spatial plan and detailed urban plans are by the municipalities, this finding really stands, but will you agree that there is no building in Serbia, no object after World War II that is recognizable? Is that area supposed to be regulated? You will have all the detailed urban and regulatory plans and spatial plans of certain areas and the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, but is there a strategy on the matter of the traditional Vojvodina? Since there is a traditional Dukean house, there is also a traditional larger facility, a forest type of old house and everything else. That's what we've been losing in Serbia since 1945. Is that what you predicted? When I talk about urban chaos, I'm not talking about the necessary facilities, the plans, everything that's one serious state. Every serious local self-government should bring in acts on whether that part of Serbia's urban problems will finally be solved, or whether someone is in charge of this resort, and I know it was certainly not discussed or thought about whether we will finally be able to stand behind architecture, in terms of building objects in Serbia, and we say, yes, this is our recognizable construction style, these are our facilities. In every serious state you have recognizable construction styles, and in Serbia nowhere since 1945 there is no architecturally recognizable building that resembles our traditional architecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36238	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36239	You don't have almost any legal facilities. Everyone built what they wanted on the plot they bought and no one stopped him from doing it. That's why in Serbia you have a million illegally built buildings. We can't talk about styles and recognizability when mostly tortured people went into building houses to get themselves a roof over their heads, and they didn't close their eyes in front of it at all and there wasn't an organized state system reaction to prevent that kind of thing. That's why we're doing this. We're climbing the stairs now. Of course, the highest possible level is that we have type houses built in accordance with a style that involves different architectural solutions and that you allow people to just choose the type of houses. Let's see what Serbia looks like today. Wherever you go, our houses are largely incomplete, energy totally inefficient, with lots of problems, many floors, almost unmoved, heated in the most primitive way possible, very often they have no sewers but septic pits. So that's the chaos we're trying to solve, and that's essentially the topic. I agree that at the end, at that last level, we may be able to talk, but first let's legalize Serbia, let's say first where it can be built, let's first ensure the conditions for urbanism to come to life as a profession and that the building starts to function according to different criteria. That's our intention today. I believe that in the years ahead, we will be able to plan development in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36240	The word has an MP, Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36241	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to hear from Mr. Minister that he is extremely engaged and insists on speeding up the process of issuing permits, documentation, to sort out the cadastre, to do a spatial plan and to respect the legal regulations, but when we look at it in practice, we are extremely disappointed. We all see that in practice this does not work in such a way that certain environments completely ignore any spatial plans, any legal provisions and do literally whatever they want. The city of Belgrade is a state for itself. I remember perfectly, in my own time, when someone gave a building permit for Elp's station at the Sava Center, all of the EU's controlling corridors were baptized that it could be there. It can't be there. But the man signed the papers, and we got into a lot of trouble back then. Now, whoever comes to mind, wherever you go, everyone tells their own story. Here, the other night in Negotin, I listened to Mr Dinkic and his story. He says he's building a highway there, and he already knows and he's on the highway and he says, "Here we go. The other day, a Turkish president came down and said -- a real highway through Sandzak. When you look at the Space Plan, it's gone. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that the highway being made, Batocina-Kragujevac, has no construction license, has no license, has no idea project, has nothing? Watch out, the highway's running out of the way. Why? The younger one went to Kragujevac, sat down with Verka and said – we're making a highway for you. We had paper for five kilometers and we made those five kilometers and stopped because there was no further paper. However, here is one of the Kraguje's MPs, is there any permit, any paper? There's an overpass over the tracks. As statistics are done, what is done, how is armyed, ask God. There's a highway that doesn't have any exits, no entrance from Kragujevac to Batocina. Poor peasants, they've been through their estates, and now with a tractor or a combination they have to go 20 to 30 kilometers to get to the other side to process their property. So this is all an empty story, but life is something else. This is where everybody designs, everybody works, everybody builds. Here, the other day I'm listening to one of the mayors, not to mention his name, on whom the government now depends. And now he has his own project. The man says, "Oh, I'll make them, that's where it's going to be." And, look, that's how it's gonna be, just like this for Kragujevac. You are powerless, the Ministry is powerless, the government is powerless. You don't have the strength, because the coalition is about to crack. If you refuse anyone, you no longer exist. So you're going to keep everything quiet and you're going to do everything just to make it last a little while longer and remain in power. Then, once I spoke in this parliament, you may have been offended as a resolute minister, I may have hurt you, but it is inexplicable for me that one firm, "Nuba Invest", who comes from Slovenia, owned by a Slovenian businessman who is called the Slovenian Cane, and you know what they call it, named Rasto Tomažic, founded a company in Belgrade in April with 3,000 euros in founding capital. The company doesn't have any traffic, no executives, no employees, no nobody and nothing. Suddenly this company shows up and gets a job. The company, Nuba Invest, has a total capital of threem euros. There's no traffic, there's nothing. She has made a number of problems in the construction land in Koper, and it is against it that investigations are being conducted, and Mr Tomažic is considered one of the most dangerous people in Slovenia, as regards crime and all that. They're competing to put a optic cable on Corridor 10. Five of our companies competed when I was in the government and they didn't get the papers because it was said to be going to tender, because the investment was only from the Croatian border to Belgrade, where the permit was granted for this gentleman, 25m euros. The investment is worth nine months. Total annual traffic should be made, according to the draft, 45m euros. That firm gets a job. How can you sign a permit if Ratel, who is in charge of telecommunications, water, telecommunications cables, transmission systems and everything else, is not consulted? Therefore, the Ministry of Telecommunications is completely bypassed. The Roads give the conditions to do so, but the Roads are not competent. It's state property, it has to go to the board of directors, it has to go to the government. No one in the Roads can sign consent on behalf of "The Way of Serbia", because it is state property belonging to the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. To be an interesting story, Mr. Tomažic submitted an application to your department for permission on 6 October 2009. On the same day, you, ministers, sign "The Ways of Serbia" (on the same day, imagine how effective you are) the order to issue conditions. On the same day, "Serbian Roads" return that they have issued conditions and that Nuba Invest can perform works. It all ended in 72 hours, for a job that's worth millions and that's going to bring millions of euros into someone's pocket for hundreds of years. It's a state fortune, it's the natural resource of this country, which needs to be exploited. Please let's see what actually happened. Nuba Invest does not have a license to perform this kind of work and to invest this type, there is no small, zero, no big license, nothing. What regulation did she get that job, how and in what way? So, please, Mr. Dulic, let this be annulled and enter into the regulatory legal procedure. Although I can see that Mr. Tomažic is now appearing in London, after a meeting that was about environmental protection, on the problems of SO2, on these investments that will be made, etc. I see he's going to fall into some combination of big investment and big environmental performances. So once again, I ask you, if you want this country to make no mistake made with Soroshe, when a license is given to do works on cable television, where they have entered every home with the Internet, with an optical cable, a retailer for free and now extremely chargeable, I think 850 dinars per apartment for Serbian citizens, and they have entered the natural resource of this country completely free and literally do what they want. Not to count now. Some journalist wrote me a letter the other day – why did you let Verat enter telecommunications in a similar way to Nuba Invest? We didn't allow it, it wasn't during my term, it was allowed by the federal telecommunications ministry, once, where he was the Montenegrin chairman. These days we got permission to work and a Montenegrin airline. The question is whose company is it? Someone who now wanted to chase and chase, there are whole affairs, to open several years ago a Montenegrin airline, to fly out of Serbia, so we didn't give permission. I see now that the man has received orderly papers, neat permits, etc. Therefore, there are many problems in the area of telecommunications, which have been given, I am very sorry, free of charge, and this has been given by unsatisfactory people and without the resolution ministries. I see the Veratu license has now been confirmed by Ratel. You should see what it's really about. That's why it's so weird when now someone out there who's got kids who haven't seen the sea and who maybe hasn't bought a child a chocolate in years has built a facility to frame their family, ask permission, threaten to crash, etc., and here in Serbia, giants come in and do literally what they want. Get in who's coming. I remember perfectly, Mr. Minister, when your party president, or president of the Republic of Serbia, went to Studio B after a one-hour show and explained that the state of Serbia and the city of Belgrade was damaged by two and a half billion euros, as regards "Luke Belgrade" and "Usce". It's about damage to the state, two and a half billion euros were cut off. That's what President Boris Tadic said. I think a lot of you have listened to that. I was thrilled. I was expecting the whole situation to come apart. But after that show that went to B 92, someone ordered it, and it's no longer being talked about. Did anyone damage the state, get certain papers, permits, and everything else, cover those locations, or do they remain? Someone turned around and said it wasn't done anymore. How is it possible to build an object of 'Moste' in such a way, at the point of impact of Belgrade, at the most visible place in Belgrade, without certain paperwork, consent and certain permits and yet to say that the state has been damaged to such an extent? Therefore, I ask you to take all legal measures and undo this, to stop the work of Nuba Investa on the highway that works completely illegally and illegally, to introduce it into regular flows. It's impossible to do anything without a tender. I got an explanation from some of your associates that now anyone can make it if they get the Road consent, that 10 optical cables can be set up. That's impossible. How is it possible anyone can set up whoever they want? Come on, I'll file a request, see if I can get permission to perform those papers in 72 hours, if that's technically possible, or any of us here. Secondly, if a deal has been agreed with the biggest buyers, and there are the biggest buyers of Telekom and telecommunications companies, if Ratel has not given consent, if "telecoms" are not involved, who is he going to sell to? What's he gonna do with all these cables? It's just impossible. I'm explaining again. There is some approval and a government decision that the Serbian Roads can give consent, and that is a big mistake, and it needs to be lifted, for gas stations. The municipalities sold, say, at Vrčin, two or three stations apart, so they sold the locations for gas stations. Here, let's say, you come out of one king, into the other. Or what happens in the Dobanovci, where eight locations are sold in the same place and the Space Plan is being violated, etc. It must be placed on the tender and public auctions. Not to mention what the mob was doing in these jobs, bringing papers for 20 years and selling, giving ads by various means of information that they had prepared papers for certain locations, etc. This isn't right and no one can convince me that this investment made by Nuba Invest is in accordance with the law. They can bring municipalities to their territory, pay some taxes, plumbing, sewerage, something that's needed by local authorities, but that a cable that passes the entire corridor without a tender, that's impossible. I remember perfectly well that their timely request for this job was submitted by the Railways of Serbia, to put in railway corridors and charge services, and in time, the Roads asked for permission to put them in the road corridor and to have additional revenues, which are extremely large. Who's Mr. Rasto Tomažič? Where does he get to open up a company in Belgrade, make it so fast, the express, and who's behind him, who's his partner in this business? I ask the authorities to consider this and to review all this, to see if there are conflicts of interest and various corruptions here and not to list what it is. I hope that the Management Board of the Road of Serbia will consider all this and make a certain decision. I'll send a memo to Mr. Lilic too. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic recently, when he was sitting here in your seat, said he had no idea about this. The resolute minister of infrastructure heard for the first time that something like that happened. That's what he said in public here in the Assembly. You've done it all. The question is whether you're in charge, whether you're allowed to do it without Ratel and the consent of the agency that's registered to do it, whether "tele-communications" should give certain conditions and consent or not. Once again, let's not play with the natural resources of this country. We're handing everything over to the white-world mob and they're coming into Serbia, they're going in with airlines, they're going into telecommunications, they're going into cable TV, they're going in wherever they want, and they're doing literally whatever they want. Serbia has become a fenced street. There are no spatial plans here. If you find a man who'll do it and do it, everything will be fine, and if not, there's nothing going on. I remember perfectly well when individuals came to Serbia and at the small door of the unauthorized received appropriate permits and made huge investments as far as Serbia is concerned. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that you will stop this, return to the initial state of play, call an international tender, allow our companies to appear in this tender and make use of this natural resource that Serbia has and that Serbia finally has some benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36242	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36243	Just, first of all, please, Mr. Ilich, let us put an end to this debate today, because you've been saying this for two months. Since you're not a thorough man and you're not a man with such data, you're obviously very well prepared. You've been well-prepared, and for two months you've been trying to scandalize one thing that just represents part of what I was just talking about, which is a reform in those areas that have been completely jammed so far, in which nothing could be done that came into effect the moment the new Law on Planning and Construction entered into force. When we talk about this last investment, we are talking about a good job that the state of Serbia is doing and about good jobs that the state of Serbia will be doing in the future. The Law on Planning and Construction has made the Ministry responsible for spatial planning tasks responsible for issuing permits for all telecommunications and other facilities that extend to the territory of two and more municipalities, because it was almost impossible, when you set up a pipeline, a pipeline, a sewerage, any other facility, that of the municipalities located in the territory along which they are moving, you get an orderly permit. That's why no road, no pipeline, no heat pipeline in Serbia is legal and that's why we have to legalize even the highway today, all bridges, everything. And don't talk about the fact that there's a huge problem with illegal construction and that you lecture me on it. Well, you, as building minister, were building an illegal facility. Everybody knows that. I hope you've at least legalized him now, that you've filed a motion. It's 11 o'clock and do it. Now, don't honor me with the mouth. You were the minister in charge of the building. Why didn't you send an inspection when the mouth was built and you asked what it was about? You're asking me a question for Luke. Well, you were the minister back then, and I was the doctor at the hospital at the time. You're asking me a question about the pump. Well, you've created a mess around the pump, and now you're talking about you having the knowledge that this is what the mob is doing. You know what was going on around the pump while you were a minister and while your man was the director of the 'Road of Serbia'. They were competing on who would be the first to get the consent of the Road of Serbia to get an access route, so today we have complete chaos. Today, I swear to you, I don't know what to do alive with what's on the lotes, which are foreseen by the spatial plan that you've proposed, three people buying land for pumps and each of them getting access from "The Way of Serbia". What am I supposed to do now, give who the pump to? I agree with you that this should change. The Law of Ways needs to be changed. It should be declared national good, and it needs the state to put on a tender, because that, I say, is an exhausted resource. When it comes to inexhaustible resources and when it comes to public procurement, this ministry has become competent under one other law, which you should know because you have proposed it to the National Assembly, and it is called the Roads Act, and it is precisely defined how various infrastructure facilities can be set up in a protective belt, including telecommunications. When we wrote the Law on Planning and Construction, we had intensive discussions with both Ratel and the Ministry of Telecommunications. It has been concluded that Serbia's huge problem is that there is no network of optical cables and that today as a state, we have the worst and most expensive internet in Europe and that it is necessary for this market to be liberalised and as many investors as possible to open the market as possible. Of course, I understand that there are many who are monopolies, maybe they are monopolies because you made them monopolies, and now they get angry when the market opens because it will lower their profits and I understand your argument and your intention to try to scandal things that are completely in line with the law and clean. Since you've been writing a parliamentary question, I've answered that question. I explained to you exactly which members of the law we applied when we issued the building permit. It is true that we have issued it very effectively, as is true that we will issue a very efficient building permit and other companies, which have been eager to pass such a law in order to finally meet an investment that is good for the state, which is companies such as Telenor, SBB, Vip Mobile, such as serious telecommunications companies that will finally be able to set up an optical network and allow people to have an internet like any other citizen in Europe. And each of them will be given the license quickly and efficiently. I know you're surprised that the permit is issued quickly and efficiently. You're probably surprised that there's a license at all, but I'm sorry, please, we're doing it, that's why we passed the law, to liberalize one thing, to speed up, to raise efficiency, and that's something we do. I'm very sorry that maybe some of your monopoly, or one of your associates, I don't want to accuse you, which was created during your time as the Minister of Infrastructure, including the Minister of Telecommunications, this way, crashed. I'm sorry about that, but it's happened now and it's going to happen in the future. Velimir Ilic, a citizen, came to apply to the ministry for a optic cable, has no problem. I'll tell you one thing you need to understand. Public procurement is done when the state gets something. The tender is done when the state gives something which is a drained resource and where there are only a few possibilities. When it comes to these cables, the protection belts of the roads are so big, you can set dozens and dozens of cables. Serbia doesn't need as many cables as it can. I'll tell you in particular, and now you've made me look into things about this company. The company, only thanks to the permission it received, has now introduced fivem euros into the country. Of this, around fourm euros will pay the "Serb Roads" in compensation for the use of the land and around 1m euros will be paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget thanks to the administrative costs they had for the authorisation process. Each of these other companies that comes will pay the same money. So, in this year, only thanks to the law that we passed, the state of Serbia can make millions and millions of euros. And I'm asking you one thing. The cables were set up while you were a minister. How much of Serbia's state came from when the cables were placed while you were a minister? I'll tell you, zero. What licenses have these cables set up? They don't exist. So this is about a civilization difference between you and me. When I'm a minister, cables are set up according to the law, they get adequate building permits and the state earns money, unlike how you did it when you were a minister. And you have no right, really... Especially you have no right to mention my family, because you're a man who doesn't even know there's truth. Last time you spoke here, you said not only that man was a criminal. But I have nothing to do with him and I have nothing to do with the Telenor, or the VIP, or the SSB, or any telecommunications house that shows up at my ministry, asks permission, and gets it within the time limit laid down. You're asking why I wrote "The Paths of Serbia." The Law on Planning and Construction provides that the authority responsible for issuing a building permit shall communicate with public undertakings for the issue of special conditions. So, when you want to pick up a hospital in the Hoods, you apply to the Municipality of Čačak and then the president of the municipality writes to a public company with his signature to give you certain conditions on the cost of investors. It's the new law you predicted. You've opened one topic in an attempt to scandalize it. I don't think you had any intention of protecting the law. I don't think you had any intention, as a pedantic perfectionist, that all this was going on in accordance with procedures. I think your intention was to protect one of the monopolies. We've been doing everything in accordance with the law and, look, let's invite together the two of us to invite people who need to deal with it, the judiciary, the prosecution and everyone else to question it. The procedure that was carried out has not just been passed through the Ministry. She got the approval of the Ministry of Infrastructure, received the approval of the defence attorneys, passed the state audit committee and received the consent of eight public enterprises. This is about all institutions participating in proving that it is possible to issue a licence in Serbia, not in two days, as you say, but in about three months. And it's a process that will continue. I can guarantee you, if you want to invest in telecommunications, come to the Ministry, file a request and you'll get permission, just like you'll get every moment when you get consent and conditions from the Travels, because that's the law. Perhaps the law is wrong, perhaps you are right to amend the law, but while this law is in force, it will be implemented and I am sure that it will bring benefits to our citizens and that it will finally lead to Serbia being, at least as far as telecommunications arrangements are concerned, shoulder to shoulder with other countries, at least in the region. That was the intention when we wrote this law. And don't get me personally into any of the scandals, because I'm nowhere and you know it very well. I know someone delivered these papers to you, and I know you're not in the business at all, and I know you don't have any personal interest, and I know that someone convinced you to talk about this. Let me just say that so far, there have been several press teams, houses, lawyers, who have been asking how to get permission. Since they convinced themselves that everything was in accordance with the law, many have set out to do so. Here, if you want, you go. So we need to open up investments in telecommunications in Serbia in the future. For one thing you're right, we issued a building permit. What this firm and any other firm will do with Ratel, with the Ministry of Telecommunications, will they get adequate permits that allow them to do their job, whether they become Internet operators, local, regional or national, I will not go into it. I don't care about that. My job was to make it possible to issue a building permit for telecommunications facilities and we did it very quickly. And we did a very good thing for the country, I guarantee it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36244	People's MP Velimir Ilic, right on the line. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36245	I understand everything, Mr. Minister, but to come to Parliament and so much insult, you tell one MP who asks you something and you show that you are the smartest, that you are simply, most certainly, I take your hat off. But, Mr. Dulic, you have no right to talk to me first. Elp's station was signed by your party friend, the Forester. All the pumps in Dobanovci, Vrcin, were signed by the city of Belgrade and your predecessors, Nenad Bogdanovic and a team from the city of Belgrade, because they said it was Belgrade's jurisdiction. The Roads have only given consent to the connection. Mr. Dulic, you were in Belgrade at the time and ran the building, the Democratic Party, as a state in the country. You've done everything on your own, without anyone's consent. It is true that municipalities have the right to install cables, but through territories for their own purposes, not an international cable that will now pass. You can't convince me... You said everything you don't buy shouldn't go to public procurement. The highway, Mr. Dulic, is not a supply. You can't buy the highway, you have to make it. So it shouldn't go into public procurement either, and now you're going to assign it to the performer like that – it was a tender, but we're going to sit down now, so it's on a small door. Right? Mr. Dulic, do you think like a minister? You signed such an investment without a tender to a man of suspicious origin? You met Mr. Tomažič in London and talked, and here I will read to you exactly now, to establish a brokerage house that will deal with trade in CO2 quotas from the moment Serbia, after the Copenhagen climate change summit, is obliged to make an inventory of harmful air heating gases, etc.? You're already in negotiations with the same Mr. Tomazic. That's right, sir. Many Slovenian journalists who have seen you have written a letter and delivered and said what awaits us. And don't tell me what happened and how it was done. Don't tell me, when the leadership of your party asked me to stop the proceedings against Rusheta, the Shumartz and the others, so I don't count anymore, when you spent millions of euros on a vip salon, so when it started there at the airport, I don't want to talk about the reconstructions of large objects and all that, when you begged to stop the procedures at the pumps and everything I wanted to run, because then you had the president of Serbia... So please, at least it's you who should be criticizing, and what you've done is against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36246	Three minutes. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36247	Obviously we won't understand each other, and I'm sorry about that. I claim that by procedure none of these things are for tendering, as I say and yes, and you can check that out and anyone can check it out, I've never been to London in my life. Whoever saw me there lied like a dog. Really. Now, you, Mr. Ilic, can say whatever you want and it's no stranger to making things up, but I'm telling you how it is. It's in accordance with the law, and I'm really trying to respect it. Be assured that all this has been done in accordance with the law and procedure, and it will be in the perspective as well. Let me just tell you one more thing. You fantasize with a letter that one of these competitors, a monopolies, wrote and sent with the same text from different addresses. Many journalists received this and received many institutions. And I've been getting letters writing all kinds of nonsense about me – a club of friends of the United Nations, so let the European Commission... Everyone understood it was a lie and nonsense, except you. And now you're waving that paper and it's you that promote something that... I'm telling you again, check it out, read the laws. It's just, you're wrong, that's not true. You can, I say again, through all the institutions that determine it, to determine. When we talk about highways, there's one more thing that's very interesting. I didn't want to open that subject, but I think the public should know. We're finishing the tender for ourselves. That's where three firms called. There are problems in that tender, I hope that it will be completed and I hope that the works will begin when scheduled. But the interesting calculation we have when we talk about how much the highway costs from Novi Sad to Horgos today, 2010 and how much it cost while you were a minister. When we talk about state savings, let's see what that means. The total price of the highway, at the most expensive offer in the tender, and I hope the cheapest one gets, and with what was done last year, will be around 160m euros. Your price was 250m euros. Now, when we talk about how we treat state resources, I ask you how it's possible. Maybe you did get that in some transparent procedure, but it's simply a fact that we didn't make a mistake when we annulled the Horgos-Požega concession, because, on the one hand, we made a huge savings to the state and, on the other hand, we didn't let the concessionaire charge toll over the next 25 years. I'm talking to you about the responsible policy we're trying to implement, along with a lot of problems and a lot of difficult heritage that you've left behind, among other things. As far as the pump is concerned, if I'm wrong, and I know that many who come today define the problems of the pumps as indecisive, mention, among other things, your associates. If I was wrong, I apologize. I also expect you to apologize to me for your mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36248	Right on line, MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36249	Mr. Dulic, I'm very sorry that you as Minister have now shown elemental ignorance. I couldn't blame the NIP lady when she said something like that, but it's no wonder, because this government and the prime minister are strange. What are you doing here, like an orthopedic? No wonder you don't know anything about it. Now I just want to explain the difference in the price of the trip. You're working the track now. So you take off the surface layer, put in the gravel, roll in and put in the asphalt. Mr. Dulic, in the first phase, we built the highway infrastructure, and did you know that the highway infrastructure costs two-thirds of the highway? They're overpasses. Only the Temerina loop costs 50m euros. Only the Beška bridge on that track costs 56m euros. The Batajnic loop alone costs 60m euros. The entrance to Novi Sad alone costs 30m euros and some million euros. All overpasses, over 20 to 30, cost money. The lighting costs, the cables cost, the fence costs. It's all costing, and when it's done, all you've got to do is give us the route. And don't, Mr. Minister, talk so completely lay. Get your calculations and take a look. One more thing, a tender for the Belgrade highway -- Novi Sad, your party worked during Prime Minister Djindjic. In the tender, he got a job on Borovic, so we turned it off because all the overpasses he did were cracked and they were unusable. We had to do it again. The tender went through that government you weren't in, and your party had a prime minister. During my term of office, the tender did not go, but the works were only continued in the tender, as was the bypass around Belgrade. So don't do the calculations. And, I repeat, all these suspicious pumps are the work of your experts and your predecessors. That's what you guys talk about at a party meeting, so see who signed it. Ilic didn't sign any pumps, no optical cables, certainly, and nothing that doesn't comply with the law, Mr. Dulic. He neither allowed anything to be done outside the law nor allowed the highway of Batocin - Kragujevac to continue. We worked as long as there was paper. When the paper was gone, we stopped. That's where the papers are stopped. For the first time, a useful permit has been obtained on the Niš – Niška Banja highway. That's what we gave because we did part of the highway. I repeat, during my term of office, 76 km of Corridor 10 has been done. So, according to Niška Banja, the bypass from Leskovec to the Vlasotanic loop and Beška - Novi Sad was made.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36250	Three minutes. Replication time has been used. Thank you. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36251	You forget one thing, Mr. Ilic, which is that after you at the Ministry, at least in this sector that deals with construction and urbanism, I came here, that I sat down with the people you've been working with and that I had the opportunity to make sure that all of this you're saying isn't true, especially as far as licensing is concerned. You didn't issue any of your useful permits. So, the custom of not opening the way or not starting work until a building permit is issued, or until a valid permit is issued, I have introduced into Serbia, and that will be so in the future. As far as Kragujevac is concerned, you're wrong. This procedure was initiated according to the value system that you created, but it was continued according to something that I was now trying to implement, which is to issue all necessary documentation and paperwork. And we'll get it right, you know, just like we're going to legalize all the roads now. You've now listed all that are real costs and all the honors. It is true that the Beški cost bridge, it is true that the tour around Novi Sad costs, it is true that the overpasses that are being built for the closed system of charges between Novi Sad and Belgrade, but I am telling you about the highway from Horgos to Novi Sad, where the body of the highway was set up in the '70s, where the Socialists of the 1990s ended up, where neither you nor we had any expense and where we are talking about half the highway being built from Horgos to Novi Sad. There's no Beška Bridge, there's no overpasses on the closed system, there's no pass around New Sad. I'm telling you about the prices you agreed to when you entered such a big investment. Those prices were high. I'm telling you, they were big. And we weren't wrong to break that concession, because the result will eventually be next. We will continue to build a highway from Belgrade to the southern Adriatic this year. The first course is already being done, at this point the planning documentation is being prepared, it's being expropriated. I hope the machines start working this year. The government's intention is to finish over 100 km of highway to Cačka by 2012 and that's something that's good. We'll also end up this year, hopefully, on the highway and connect Horgos with Belgrade to be full of the highway profile. We hope that the Beška Bridge will be completed. But the total cost of costing it will be many times less than it was for the business that you negotiated through the concession. And, most importantly, in the coming years, Serbia will benefit from tolls, not concessionaires. You tried to realize a job that you might not have thought was bad for the state, but now, after a few years, it turns out it could have been cheaper and it could have been better. We can argue, but there are numbers that show it. So all this work done, as far as bridges and bypasses are concerned, is real costs. Unfortunately, none of this is over. Unfortunately. Because all those who got these jobs, meanwhile, got into trouble, offered it at prices that aren't real, and now we're fighting with that problem, among other things. I won't answer again, and I suggest we don't entertain the public by having a fight with each other. I'm telling you one more time -- everything we've done, we've done according to the law. We can disagree, you can invite all the organs to come in, I'd like them to come in and find out that everything has been done in accordance with the law, as all the procedures that are being done in the future will be done in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36252	National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36253	I am reporting on the basis of Article 27, where it is said that the chairman of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure is being chaired. I do not wish to enter this controversy between Minister and Velimir Ilic, but it is said that Borovica has been given the right... (President: National MP, explain how the Chairman did not care about the application of the Rules of Procedure. I was looking for a word... (President: You have been given the floor to talk about how it is not right to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure at the sitting. Because Borovica was mentioned at a time when... (President: National MP, Borovica is not in the context and cannot be the subject of breach of the Rules of Procedure or custody of the order. Please, or use your two minutes to explain... I'm trying to. At a time when I was the minister of traffic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36254	People's MP, I warn you not to abuse the right to the word received. Article 27 has not been broken, and you are violating the Rules of Procedure in an attempt to abuse the right to free word, which is inadmissible. If I were to allow it, I would violate Rule 27, or I would not take care of the order and application of the Rules of Procedure by allowing the abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Velimir Ilic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36255	I'd just like to replicate. Mr. Dulic, it's true that there's been an increase in prices. On the Gazela Bridge there was an increase in prices twice, due to the accumulation of steel, and on many facilities...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36256	People's MPs are entitled to a replica to explain, now, in the third exchange of replicas, the price of the highway from Horgos to Novi Sad, so I ask you to present the contents of your replica to the MPs and ministers by replicating the price of the highway in part from Horgos to Novi Sad. People's MP, I've given you the line three times. This is the fourth time and you will have the right to use your three minutes. Warned and warned that I take care of order, I take care of order so that I remind you of what the replica serves. The replica also serves as an answer to each other’s speakers, whoever they may be, explain to one another the subject of which they dispute. The theme of the dispute is the price of the highway from Horgos to Novi Sad. Please sign in and use your three minutes for a replica on the subject subject of the replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36257	There's been a series of untruths here about the price of the freeway. It is true that the Socialists made that part of the highway, it is true that when it was paid, it was ten times higher, but it is true that we paid it, according to a court decision, after 10 or 12 years, with interest that was enormously high, and it was true that the price was about 30m euros, and the value of the works carried out was two or threem euros. It's a famous road that's been opened a hundred times. The court ruled, blocked budget funds and charged it directly to "Serbia's Ways" and the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we paid for it. It's true that now you're saying that you're going to work and that the concession isn't good. The concession's great. And why is the price higher? Because there's interest for 25 years, Minister. Secondly, you have now defined the funds in the budget, but two billion dinars. What are you going to do on the Belgrade highway, a chateau with two billion dinars? And it's true, if you pay cash and you pay from the NIP, it has one price, and if you take a concession for 25 years, it has another price. Because the capital bank is charging interest for the next 25 years, Mr. Minister. There's a difference. Many have examined and all is as clean as tears. I can bring you an expert team that worked, which Dinkic chose at the head of the finance ministry, which from Washington did expertise and ran the entire concession project. Do you know who wrote the contract? The finance ministry and the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. So, Mr. Minister, don't sin on your soul and talk nonsense and attack people who have nothing to do with it. I repeat, but I ask you, clearly and loudly – how does Nuba Invest do works when it does not have a license? No license, no director, no nothing. How can he get a job for a company that doesn't exist? He only has a name and 3,000 euros, and he gets such a big job! That's the question you have to... Where are the references to this firm to get such a big job? How come this phantom company shows up all of a sudden, in what way? You have to explain all of this, and I hope you'll explain it at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36258	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36259	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, for the SRS, every law, no matter how large, how many pages or members there are, and as far as editing and planning space is concerned, is of great importance. Catastran is something that gives or doesn't give, depending on whether it's good or not, a prerequisite for adequate land management. We believe that what you said today at the beginning of this debate is not enough and that your second address today was more adequate in the context of presenting this law. If someone were to get the impression of this country based on what you said in the first and second speeches, they'd think it was two different states. The SRS respects that unlike many in your government, you have the courage to admit mistakes and in some way accept and acknowledge your weaknesses. I repeat, the SRS respects that, but there are some things that we can't give you for right. First of all, you touched your legacy. It seems to me that you're part of a policy that's quite the political concept of a relationship to space you've built into that legacy. I will remind you that you have been in power for almost ten years and in all these ten years, Serbia has, when it comes to space, only in the last few months made certain steps forward. Therefore, you may not have the right to call upon the inheritance, although all the problems relating to space, to its arrangement, have really not existed just since 2000. They are being dragged in a long time ago and what Serbia really needs is this spatial plan, which will provide a certain basis for this to change dramatically in the time ahead. We also cannot accept that you said that in the process of adopting the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro, you refused exclusively amendments that are essentially in collegiate with what you have proposed. You're wrong, because you refused then, you said yourself, the amendments submitted by the SRS to the bill. I have these amendments right here in front of me. These are the original reception stamps. The amendments were submitted by counterparts Petar Jojic, Mirko Munjic, Dejan Mirovic and Boris Aleksic. Today these amendments are in the proposal to amend and supplement this law and we cannot say that it is not acceptable for us. But for us, the unacceptable relationship between the government and the ministry is in the process of adopting this law, and from that aspect we resent you for perhaps at that moment being able to remove all the procedural problems that have arisen since then. These amendments did not arise as an expression of the need for political obstruction, especially when it comes to issues that regulate space. They were created as an expression of the experience of individuals who wrote them, who in different ways, directly or indirectly, met with property-legal relations or all of what was in one way or another associated with the disaster, or space. If we were to make a report today on the state of space, six or seven months immediately after the adoption of the law, and on planning and construction, and on the state diameter and the cataster, it seems to me that there would be no major fundamental differences, especially in that section relating to planning and construction. Today everything about planning and building and editing space has fallen into the shadow of the story of legalization and conversion. We have tried the adoption of this law to point out that it is very important that these two things be separated. We are afraid and we would not like to, but it is very symptomatic for us that today in Serbia you are talking about legalisation and that you are dedicated to it solely to the realization of income that will come through this legalisation or possibly be a review of privatisation, as some fear. Space means something else. The space implies making sustainable, efficient and consistent decisions. We can see that in this ministry of yours it is perfectionists because of certain things, but it seems to us that you have been left alone on this road, or as perfectionists in terms of the arrangement of space today in Serbia, and that one trompes, incompetent and very trendy bureaucratic administrative apparatus does not want to support and monitor you in all of this. We respect what you're saying that you've gone deep into local self-government, but at the same time (you've invited us to tell you; here, I'm telling you) there are local self-governments where illegal construction, despite the fact that the law has been passed, is stimulated, from very corrupt and cheap interests. There is a threat to areas declared to be areas of exceptional quality because individuals from local self-government have personal interests. And do you know how to defend individuals who stimulate it? They say they enter your ministry with their feet, not their hands, easier than your MPs sitting here. They bring into context with such things the guarantees of your assistants and associates. I'm ready to talk about it, but, of course, not like this. I want to point out all the weaknesses, because the SRS, through examples of local self-government, at a time when it was in power, has shown that it understands, understands and is fully committed to the regulation of space, because this is the essence and basis of not your path to the EU, but the sustainable economic development of a country. When it comes to this law, we have shown through these amendments that we want you to be flexible by law to those who will be users of all those standards that this law provides. You've extended certain deadlines, you've treated those who will issue licences (hopefully, it's not in the function of achieving the income of those who work in the cataster today), but there are certain doubts that, through the definition of the cataster, this 80%, as far as you're saying, some errors in services are tending to be left behind. They were left tendantly for citizens in the regular procedure, through payment of fees, to correct those mistakes. That's what's being asked as a question, and that's what needs to be taken care of. Of course, in the adoption process, not only did you, but the representatives of your ministry, present very'modern', as you say today, so it was said that there were four public debates, from Ruma, i.e. from Šida, to Niška Banja, Kragujevac, Belgrade, 250 participants, 60 debaters. Seventy written remarks were received, and from that was included in the law what is acceptable. These are the essential things that we missed then and, unfortunately, now we have one negative experience in the last six months and we're changing the law. But you have to accept the fact, not demeaning anything, it's not the same for such a short time and because of the banal things to change the Law of the Cataster or, let's say, change the Law of the PIO. These are two drastic things and this should be approached with much more attention. We're counting on you to do it this time. You've accepted two amendments to the SRS, and we're going to talk about that third one, but it seems to me that you've realized that the SRS fully understands everything that represents editing space and understands its importance for the development of this country. You can't always act politically pragmatic, especially when it comes to these things. Sometimes some things have to be done in a way that will be effective and beneficial for the state in the next five or ten years. Today, everyone in Serbia is full of the mouth of economic sustainable development, while on the other hand we still have really big problems in space, respecting the efforts you are making. We can't say that a certain step forward has not been made in the catastro. The World Bank funded, you say, 80 percent of the catastra is arranged, and there's little to be done. But if what's now defined by a disaster corresponds to land books, it remains to be seen. When it comes to the catastran, your work is yet to come. To form it to the end, to maintain it, to re-edit it. What, based on the experience we have, will be the biggest problem, is to introduce information technologies so that citizens, the users of catastra services, all of this is on their hands, or on their own. The SRS has also shown its attitude towards this area in the process of discussing the Law on determining the maximum number of employees. Then, Mr. Minister, we proposed an amendment that we have separated and asked that the law does not apply to the Republic Geodetic Institute, but to the Office for European Integration. And then we were aware of the facts and the importance of the work to be done by the cadastre. But the fact that the cadastre has to do this job doesn't give it the right for those who remain in the cataster to be irresponsible, to be a trom, inefficient and incompetent administration, to abuse that privilege and to make citizens mostly, when they come out of the catastra rooms, wherever they are, come out unsatisfactory, nervous or unfinished work. You'll have to take care of that. Of course, this job is very important for the state and must be brought to an end. Why? Because the cadastre provides adequate land management. What is the crown of adequate land management? It's investment. No one can talk about investments without essentially creating a basis and a basis for them to come tomorrow and, as you just said, get all the proper papers to carry out that investment. Whether domestic investors or foreign investors, it doesn't matter to us. It is important to provide jobs, to ensure sustainable economic development. What's the point of the whole story? To protect, above all, private property. That catastre provides. It provides adequate land management. State land should also be protected, also envisioned by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on which things are happening today despite the fact that we have passed the Law on Planning and Construction. It needs to be created, Mr. Minister, an adequate tax base. For the SRS, there's a road. The regulated countries 20, or 30 percent of public incomes, are made on the basis of the fact that they have an orderly cadastre and are adequately managed by land. Can we boast of that? Of course we can't. The way to this is really long and it's not easy, but you have to show both tighter and stronger and better determination to endure on that path and face all the weaknesses and problems. You must, on the other hand, spare the courts of unnecessary litigation. Efficient parceling must be enabled, preparation must be made possible, etc. What's important, too? What is the mortgage credibility of each of us as a private, or legal person? Today you have a problem in Serbia that the real sector, that the economy cannot be in debt because it is not mortgaged, there is no regulated book, there is no knowledge of what belongs to who and then what the economy, unfortunately, is asking for the state to intervene, that the state is helping finance VAT or some other tax procedures, because it is unable to take loans, among other things, because it is not mortgaged. What happens next? It's pulling back the fact that banks here have assets that are untapped, which are standing, and because of that fact, the bank will withdraw funds. That's how it happens, and there's no end to that chain. Therefore, the SRS believes that access to this topic and these problems really implies both seriousness and responsibility and commitment to work. It's been a very short period since the adoption of these laws so that some fundamental and crucial still come to terms or conclusions, but it seems to me that this debate too could have been avoided that there was a little more political hearing at the time when this law was discussed and when this law was adopted. That's what I'm gonna end up with. The SRS believes that this is really important, but the state has shown, by the fact that we are discussing this today, some weaknesses and we hope that, by handling this in perspective, you will make more effective, consistent and healthy decisions and in the process of adopting amendments, i.e. in the process of writing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36260	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty, they are in accordance with Article 4(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, SRS, ZES, DSS. These are the parliamentary groups that have reported MPs to debate in the principled search. The first to be declared is the National MP Judita Popovic, followed by the National MP Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36261	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was really interesting and intriguing to listen to the controversy that was taking place earlier in this room between the former and current authorities. Let us only hope that the controversy was heard by competent institutions, both reformed and independent competent institutions. Because during this controversy, many questions have been raised, many insinuations, many problems. It remains, therefore, to hope that these institutions have also listened carefully and that these institutions were not only entertaining, but will give them the incentive to act. It is, among other things, democracy and I agree with Mr. Minister that the democratic procedure also includes the recognition of certain mistakes and that these mistakes are corrected after they have been observed. It is good that this law has arrived on the agenda and it is good that one serious mistake, which is provided for by some other law, will be corrected by amendments if this law is adopted. The LDP intends to support this legislative proposal, because we really need to support all the laws that aim to improve our legal order in some way. And the legal order includes the laws, as well as the interlinking of these laws, the interaction between these laws, and the implementation of these laws. For that very reason, if something is corrupting in one of these laws, it has certain repercusions to other laws. So it happened that the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, which we adopted in December, has certain consequences for the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre. Why? Because the law envisioned a reduction in the number of republican officials, and it did not take into account any previous law, which is the Law on Planning and Construction, which, of course, provided for a lot of work for the cataracts of immovableity. How could it happen that, for example, this law on republican officials took care of public enterprises and pointed out in advance that the law would not apply to public enterprises and did not take into account such serious law as the Law on Planning and Construction and did not take into account that civil servants in the RGZ are not ordinary civil servants, but would bear a serious burden in seriously reforming Serbia's society? You see how important it is that all the laws the government proposes to Parliament are really doing seriously, thoroughly, with serious preparations, with serious analysis and consideration of the consequences that this law will produce. It is obvious that this law on civil servants has not been well prepared because it has lost sight of this officer in the RGZ. The result was that the catastrian had not worked, he striked for more than a month. In that month's time, the work has accumulated. In those months, citizens were nervous, unable to close their contracts, could not make an insight into the public book, that is, to check the state of their ownership, could not pawn their property and could not raise loans that were conditioned by certain mortgages, etc. So, the catastre just stopped. You might say - one such boring or perhaps banal, politically irrelevant institution such as the cadastre and in that case the consequences were borne only by citizens, so it was not a particular topic. But for ordinary lives, it's important for ordinary people and how important that at any time, at any time, they can check important data regarding their assets. There was absolutely no dilemma in public enterprises that we would not reduce the number of employees in the same company, although we know that 160,000 people work in them, that public enterprises represent half of the total number of active enterprises in Serbia, that these public enterprises employ 30% of the employees in Serbia's economy. So, obviously, it is an enormous number of employees that I think that the objectives of the laws declared by this Republic law could probably be far better realised if the number of employees in public enterprises were reduced than in the Republic Geodetic Institute or in similar institutions, or bodies. This note of mine regarding the interdependence of the law could be immediately defined, and in that sense, that the law on republican officials was not only dissonative, which was otherwise passed after the Law on Planning and Construction had already been passed. So you could tell what was going on and what work was ahead of us. For example, I would also mention the law that abolished land books in Vojvodina, land books that were the pandan of the Republic Real Estate Catastrophe, land books that were in the jurisdiction of courts, which had a tradition of 200-300 years in Vojvodina, and they functioned extremely well and still functioned as public books, had absolutely an assumption of absolute accuracy. And if you have that assumption, then you have legal certainty in business. Now, the legislator simply lost sight of the importance of these land books, their good experience, rather than eradicating land books and moving from zero and moving from the cataster of immobility. So we move the register, the immobilization records from the jurisdiction of the court, and we transfer it to administrative jurisdiction, and, well, we come into a situation that, for example, in the last year, the cataster has at least twice strike from one month at a time, that it is stifled with objects, that it is slow to work, that often and quite inextricably, some sublegal acts are waiting to sort of regulate, speed up or similar and facilitate the implementation of the Law on Planning and Construction. When we talk about all this, it must be borne in mind that every time there is a law, there are laws that are related to this law and that it must not be allowed to simply go over that experience and implement other laws. This is where we inevitably come to the Statute of Vojvodina. There was a big cry here about it - hold the Duke. You see, I would recommend that Serbia stick more to the Vojvodina and its positive experience and all that is positive in the existence and work of Vojvodina, because it is in the interest of all Serbia, the whole society and the state of Serbia. This legislative proposal that we have today can be characterized as having some technical purpose, so to correct some mistakes. However, this law, as we can see, has certain messages, in that it must always be careful how laws are prepared, how these laws will be able to be implemented and to fully prepare the ground for the laws to be truly effective and to be in harmony with other laws and otherwise in harmony with European legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36262	Eleven minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Đura the Martyn.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting how the ministers in all these domains have spent the last ten years excellent training to, using (not to say abuse) the media, announce any major reforms in this or that area in Serbia at any moment. Mr. Dulic, you remember, I hope you haven't forgotten, it was just recently, a few months ago, when you advertised the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on State Time and Cataster, and when you opened and closed all the television logs, all the political shows, etc. And you have managed to convince the citizens of Serbia that you will indeed do something revolutionary in these areas that are of great importance to the vast majority, not to say -- for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. When we talked about this law a few months ago (and today, here we are, changing it), I drew your attention to the fact that you have to take care of the fact that these laws, these proposals, are also spoken to by people who have acquired 18 or 20 years of work experience by doing property-legal work. I've been distracting you, Mr. Minister, so you don't pass any inapplicable law. You smiled then, I guess your associates convinced you that what I was saying on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group was just a political story, you didn't believe that I spoke as someone who really knew this job. Here, after those seven months we have here amendments and additions of laws that are actually the adoption of the July SRS amendment. It's good that you admit it, but it's not good that it's happening, Mr. Minister. It's not a good thing you don't accept what's, at least, logical. It's impossible, here, and you've realized that deadlines for filing an appeal, when it comes to certain business in the field of cadastres, are set for eight days. I have to remind you of what we told you back then. It's not about what you said here, and this is really tragic, to say in the light of this proposal that these provisions of the law are in collegiate with the Law on Planning and Construction, and even that there are certain provisions in the conflict with the provisions of the law itself. That's true, both of us, but should I remind you that both of these laws have been discussed at the same session of this House? I guess you were counting on each other to be adopted. It's just that these deadlines are inappropriate because of the complexity of this job. You have a director of the Republic Geodetic Institute next to you. I let you not know, but he, a man of the profession, must know. In this case, if an appeal or objection is lodged, this means that, with that appeal or objection, certain documents must be submitted, and those documents cannot be obtained within eight days. We therefore assured you then that it was appropriate for the deadlines to be 15 days, while leading, among other things, or above all, accounts for the Law on General Administrative Procedure. You didn't listen to us, and today we're discussing this law again. I also need to remind you of the law on legalization. Not you, but the citizens of Serbia, for the public. You didn't listen to us, Mr. Minister, when we turned your attention to that dangerous member, it seems to me to be 70. The law on planning and construction. Today, here are the daily media filled with a story about who you're going to and how to give construction land in a place where there used to be factories, on those big posters where someone will, because they bought a factory just because of the location, so the factory is on the surface of 10 acres, but it's all together on a nine-hectare plot, and then I'm giving you attention and now I'm warning you, Mr. Minister, I'm sure we'll have changes to the Law on Planning and Construction also in a few months, but it'll be a drastic consequence if that law is applied to that text in which it was adopted here in parliament. It was interesting to me, Mr. Minister, when you explained, that is, when you and someone here were having sex, so in a few sentences, I'm going to make a comment on what you said. You said, when it comes to state diameter and cadastre, and legalization, of course, because it has to be connected somehow – the legacy is quite difficult. I accept, yes, indeed Dragoslav Šumarac has left you a huge legacy in a negative sense. You remember his law on legalization, all citizens remember him. You remember that one on November 17th of the year, which was the last day to apply for legalisation, so the representatives of the then government swore there would be no extension of the deadline and that illegal construction would be stopped. What happened in the meantime? There was no stopping the illegal construction, and it can't be stopped, Minister, to stop the illegal construction, I warned you, and when we talked about this law, until the planning documents were made. It's just something that's life. You say they're your team's cell phones, they're going around the field, etc. Here, I'll give you directions, Mr. Minister. About the adoption of the Law on Legalisation and the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster coincided with the time of change of government in the municipality of Zemun, so I invite you to invite your competent services to walk the Zemun, the street of Sava Kovacevic, Ugrinović, Jakub Kuburović, Prvomajski, to take a look at Altin, in the Blue Horizon. Minister, you know, some citizens from Zemun came to you to draw attention to how the Zemun municipality tried to usurp their private plots. So, you have something to do and I would ask you, on behalf of the people of Zemun, for the teams to go around a little Zemun and that what the current government is doing in Zemun, that abuse, stand in the way. Next, Mr. Minister, you say you're changing this law because you're legal perfectionists. Here, legal perfectionists, you're changing Article 170. Now I'm going to tell you how silly this sentence will look when this change is adopted. "According to the geodetic bases of Article 1, for the purposes of various types of projects in engineering and technical areas, they are used from the database," and now this is no longer a cadastrian-information system, but a "geodetic-catastrian information system". You will admit, this change means nothing, but, when you're changing this, that it is not only the amendments of the SRS MPs that you're putting into law, but also that you're introducing something new. And then you say, "(Catastrian plan, cadastrian water plan, basic state map and other maps)" and you add "and other. "As the legal perfectionists did this, please delete this "and" in front of the "other cards". And as for this "and the other", of course, it's totally unacceptable that the law can say "and the rest", "and the other" etc. The law states that any life situation in a particular area would be framed into a legal norm. The law isn't written and it doesn't bring in to say "both" and "other" etc. That's exactly the kind of reason we come into a situation where we have inapplicable laws. In the light of why you asked, Minister, for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, you say: "which removes the adverse consequences of the work of the state authority in the area of national diameter, cadastre, the recording of mortgages, as well as the areas of regulation of space and the protection of the environment". I must deny you, Minister. This law will not remove the adverse consequences, because the State Prime Minister and the Cataster Act, ask the director of the RGZ who sat next to you at all, did not apply at all, not only because you were on strike and I must say that you were right to strike, because it was simply incredible and illogical, Mr. Minister, that you found that you were reducing the state administration precisely in the RGZ, and at the time you were giving the Institute a huge and extremely significant job. It was thoughtless of you and, behold, you're changing it in this bill and it's a good thing you're doing it, and it would have been even better if you had accepted the SRS amendment then, because we've turned your attention that it's impossible to reduce the number of employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute and to transfer the entire land book to the Republic Catastrian. Of course, in just one sentence, I'll remind you that we've paved the way for whether the national diameter and the cadastre or the land book, when it comes to the entry of the immovableity. We Serbian radicals have assured you that a better solution is a land book, and now we think so, but in principle, it is possible that the business of enrollment of immovableity ends through state diameter and cadastre and it is all under the auspices of the Republic Geodetic Institute, but we have said that it will not be possible by law as it was adopted in August. And with these changes you'll also have problems and you won't be able to do that job, and he really needs to and must be done. It's still there, isn't it, Mr. Director? ) in Serbia, unrecorded at least 60% of the immovableity, and that is a big problem. You, Minister, have, in your time, represented this law in the way that all the problems in that area will be regulated when we pass that law, and we have argued that it will not be so. I call on all the journalists who are following us, those who are dealing with investigative journalism, to go through Serbia, to visit the Catastrian Centers in the municipalities, and to come up with the data, as the director has just shown his head that I am wrong when I say that you have done nothing since this law was passed, to investigate how much immovableity has been recorded in Serbia since this law was passed. You'll see the devastating results. You can't work, even if you want to, because you don't have the conditions laid down in this other law, the Law on Planning and Construction. And then I warned, and we warned: do not make the law of order, bring the law, when you create conditions for such a law to be applied. You don't have those conditions right now. Here, Director, do you have any information on how many catastrophe centers in Serbia today that don't even have the usual dystomat? You have safe, we know you do. That's why it's not good that you said here, Mr. Dulic, that the implementation of this law does not require additional financial security. Yes, it is. And we don't mind that when you pass one serious law, you say it costs the state. They want citizens to pay for what contributes to their safety, above all, to the safety of their property. So, Mr. Minister, it would be good, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, to listen to the MPs of the SRS and to take more care of the suggestions we give you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36264	Fifteen minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Đura Muchenski has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36265	The President-in-Office, members of the Presidency, respected ministers, respected directors of the Republic Geodesy Institute, is today ahead of us with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre. We heard today in previous discussions that certain problems have arisen regarding law-making. What I can welcome, in any case, is the courage of this ministry to solve problems in exactly this way, means to follow the laws that the National Assembly is proposing and adopt, to see the problems that are happening in their application and to respond with adequate terms, with these amendments and amendments of the law, and thus pre-warn further the creation of such problems. This is something that should serve as an example to other ministries and, frankly, congratulations. What is essential here is that we are now in the process of reforming our society and that there are changes to many of the system laws that regulate this area. I wish there was a different policy in these areas. Now we would have regulated legislation, we would be an EU member, we would have a different standard of our citizens, and we wouldn't have to, at a certain speed, adopt laws, and in such a procedure, it's normal to steal and make mistakes sometimes. What is important is that this ministry has realized that it must be elastic, fast and that what appears as a problem in practice solves in an adequate way, and this is precisely this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the State Crossover and Catastrophe. The reasons for passing this law have already been said. I'll just repeat the most important things, for our citizens to know. These are: the harmonisation of this law with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the removal of the conflict of certain legal provisions, as well as the setting of deadlines for the conduct of the Republic Geodetic Institute. It is important to note that these are certain new competences which the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster has been given to the Institute and which, in that situation, may have been the case when the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration was passed. There will certainly be some other areas, which will also see mistakes in passing such a law. I invite them to do it as soon as possible, to make it right, so that this state apparatus and this state administration can do their job more effectively. Therefore, the RGZ has received new powers, which are: the diameter of the state border and the management of the national border register; the assessment and management of the value of immovableity; the establishment, maintenance and availability of geodetic-catastrian information systems; inspection supervision; the issue and confiscation of geodetic licences; as well as numerous transactions that will arise in the process of legalising illegal facilities and conversion from right of use to property rights on immovable property. The Institute will be obliged to prepare data for all local self-governments, which should develop spatial plans, and that is something that is very important in the future for each of our local self-governments and they expect professional assistance from the Republic Geodetic Institute. Also, to carry out some important state affairs, what is now under way, which has been discussed today, and these are jobs related to the realisation of major state projects - Corridor 10, Corridor 7 and other major projects for the reconstruction of infrastructure facilities. This is exactly the kind of procedure that we and you both show preparedness to remove all shortcomings in this procedure and finally, for the term of office of this government and these National Assembly, these major projects will be completed once and for all, not just initiated, opened and unfinished. What I would like to ask you now is about a law, which we also passed last year, when perhaps in one situation one member is not precisely defined, which is the Act on the Sustainable Development of the Fish Fund. In fact, in one member, the minister gives consent to the price list of fishing licences, i.e. a license for sports fishermen. I am a fisherman, a member of the Sports Fishing Association Koljak from the Russian Krstura, and I was at the annual assembly, where I was presented the problem that this year the price established is unique for the entire Republic of Serbia, with the price being unique for all categories. In the past, there was a certain practice that children aged 14 to 18 and pensioners, as well as persons aged 65 or over 60, have so-called “the age of 60”. the authorised licences, i.e. the price of the licence they paid, was lower than the regular permit paid by sports fishermen who were able to work. I think in this situation as it is today and given the economic status and standard of living of citizens, you should respect one initiative that they have launched, and I have supported it. Here I have about 400 signatures of sports fishermen from the territory of my municipality and Vrbas municipality, and I have information that my colleague Pavel Marchok from Bačko Petrovec and many colleagues who launched this initiative. I think that within your jurisdiction you should do what you can, and, looking at how you've acted under this law, I think you have the authority and the authority to act on that and to meet these initiatives and allow people to deal with sports fishing. I think it's in everyone's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36266	Seven minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Before I give my word to the Minister, based on article 85. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the Members of the Parliament that today, after the opening of the principled review of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the State Crossover and Cataster and that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, by discussing the subject which is at that time subject to our work, but not beyond 20.00 hours. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly to say about this subject. I think it's important and I think that the theme of sports fishing is one of those wonderful things that is not about party differences and day-to-day policies, but about the incredible movement of our citizens who enjoy fishing. Personally, I'm not a fisherman, but right now, through working on preserving the fish fund and, let's say, legal regulations, I've met a lot of people and I've seen how wide that is and how many objective requirements that come from the field. We have a lot of problems in all of this. At this point, users are able to start selling, at last, a united license for sports fishing that is valid in the territory of the entire country, and that is the first time that we have introduced such a thing. We had a lot of problems to define, and it took us this year, which is zero years, to define a single price, simply to start the whole process. Not to tell you how much trouble it was to convince users that it was necessary for the state to print a permit valid in the territory of the entire state, because they're used to printing their own permits that they later sell. I think we've managed to reach an agreement and establish some control. Thank you for your initiative. It is important that such initiatives exist. What I can tell you is that we've talked about it, too, and we're going to find a solution these days. I can promise young people from 14 to 18 years old and pensioners over 65 years of age or women over 60 years old that they will be allowed to get that united half-price permit as much as it costs, and we will make up for that difference for those who sell those permits, and these are users, through the Environment Fund. For those who have bought the license at an existing price, we will make sure that this discount is valid next year, so they are considered to have paid for two years and do not have to pay for it next year. We think it is good to distinguish between citizens who are retired and have small incomes, which are children, on the one hand, and citizens who are working, who have jobs, on the other hand. Let us just do this for a while, but what we can promise is that surely those who bought the license next year will fish for free, and those who did not buy the license can either wait or pay in advance for two years. I'll take the chance when we've talked about it. Mrs. Verica Radeta has opened two important topics, so let me speak very briefly. Of course, we too knew what problems we were facing, and what kind of cost we were in when we tried to define the property issue of building land through the Law of Planning and Construction. We knew it would hurt our head the most. I think legalization is a process that goes its course. I think it's gonna work this time, and it's gonna work because we simplified the procedure. It's really minimal and it can't be any simpler than this. They're construction buildings, they're houses that are legalized, that citizens built without any paper. It's just that some papers have to be made possible. I see that people are standing in ranks and complaining – what else do they need this paper or that paper. Indeed, the procedure for issuing a building permit is very complicated because it implies responsibility for both states and designers and builders. If we are trying to introduce it now, then some papers still need to be obtained. But this is the simplest procedure possible, and I'm glad that many municipalities, the vast majority of municipalities, realize that this is not the procedure they need to make money and that this time the cost of legalization is very, very decent. Our data suggests that in Serbia there is legalisation of objects up to 100 square meters on average between 400 and 600 euros, which is indeed a very decent price, especially when divided into wars and when the discounts allowed by municipalities are calculated. This time it really has to work. The only reason to fail will be an under-good organisation at the level of local self-government and we really remind local self-government every day that it is necessary to complete the procedure as soon as possible. I'd also like to make a call from this pay phone to all the citizens who haven't done it yet to go to register, to report an illegal facility. The deadline expires tomorrow. They don't have to, so they have all the papers and they don't have to have money today. I've seen a lot of people who are in a difficult economic situation and we all understand that it's a difficult situation, but let's believe that in the future the situation is going to be better and that in the years ahead, until they finish this process, they're going to have money to legalize houses, because it will certainly be very important for them and their families. When we talk about conversion, turning right of use into property rights, 90% of building land, 100% of our citizens will be able to achieve this right without any compensation. Any of you who has a house will be able to own and land under the house for the first time in your life, thanks to this law, without any compensation. We've also defined the other face category, which will have to pay the fee. Of course, there will be huge problems in that conversion. Today we have two choirs singing an almost identical song. One is a choir of those who are representatives of large capital and who claim that this law has carried out a review of privatisation, that it is revenge on large capital, that we are trying retroactively to collect something they have already paid, that it is expensive, that it stops investment, that they will fail because of it. On the other hand, we have those who think it's not charged enough and that there's more to be paid. And each other are trying to achieve the same effect, which is that the law and regulation that this is closer to defining are being put out of force. I have to tell each other, something that was difficult to understand, which is called the right to use, in a process that had its imperfections, which is a privatisation process, or bankruptcy process, we are now allowing those people who then paid a full price of capital for a particular company, who did not intend to develop this company, to invest money in machinery, to maintain employment, to increase and modernise the volume of functionality of that factory, but to buy only for speculative reasons, to get to cheap building land, we have to collect the difference between market value today and the price of capital they invested there. It was not possible to find any other model that would make the difference between the taxpayers of turning right of use into property with a fee that differs essentially because many invested money to keep workers, continued production processes, in the meantime invested great money in modernising the factory, and today successful businessmen are making the backbone and the backbone of our economy, on the one hand, and those who did it for speculative reasons. This is the only way to charge a lot more of what they bought to get to cheap building land and that in the meantime changed the purpose of this land through various acts in front of local self-government, so it became industrial building land. The estimates will be done today, in real time, and all they were trying to get for little money, and these were primarily decisions by local self-government to change the purpose of this land into building land, now they will have to pay, for this land today has a much higher price and value than it had at the moment of privatisation. I know there's going to be a lot of trouble in that process. It's no longer in the hands of our ministry. It is in the hands of the tax administration today, it is in the hands of those who are in charge of assessing the value of capital, but this is my call to the public and all those institutions that are in charge of fighting corruption to enter and be an integral part of the assessment of the value of building land today. I don't know how else to prove that various ports and various factories and industrial zones that are now located in urban areas of cities need to be charged at full market value and that these people are equal to those people who are going into investment today and going to the market to buy land. It is indeed our intention, and no one can convince me that it recognizes any element of corruption or dishonest intent. That was my answer to Mrs. Radet's discussion. We know there's gonna be problems, but every other model at this point wasn't real. We had to get out of something that is a relic of the past and that no longer exists anywhere in the world, and it's called the right to use building land. We had to establish something that is a historic venture, which is that construction land finally enters private property and becomes a resource that can be traded, on which it can be built much easier and which can become an important factor in the start-up of the construction industry. Just because we have made the conversion and made it possible to own property over construction land, we have automatically reduced the price of squares of dwellings sold to our citizens, because today, because there is no resource called building land, squares, especially in Belgrade, cost an awful lot. It's one of the things that makes it an integral part of this reform and we carry it out with great confidence that we are doing it in the interests of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36268	MP Gjuro Muchenski has been reported. You want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36269	I just want to thank Mr. Minister, on behalf of all the initiators of this action and all those whom we will allow to deal legally with this sport, for supporting this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36270	The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36271	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, citizens of Serbia, the Law on state diameter and catastro are governed by the professional affairs and affairs of the state administration relating to state diameter, the catalogue of immovableity and water cadastres, basic geodetic works, the address register, the assessment of the value of immovableity, topographic and cartographic work, the geodetic and catastrian information system and the National Infrastructure of Geospace Data and Geodetic Works in Engineering and Technical Areas. That's why we find this law extremely important. Last year, the SRS proposed a series of amendments that were rejected in the adoption process, and the same proposals are offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and changes the law itself. At that time, we offered solutions to make certain time limits so that they could be acceptable and possible in practice. In particular, these solutions referred to complaints concerning the solutions of inspectors, licences, solutions which are permitted or refused to enter, etc. You refused all our suggestions, and now you're suggesting the same thing. It's a good thing you admitted a mistake. You're one of the few ministers who wants to do something like that. We are pleased that what we proposed last year will finally become part of this law. As for the amendments that we have now submitted, to Article 5 and to Article 7, which are, I say, identical, that in Articles 133 and 137, the words "three years" are replaced by the words "five years", it is not good to define by law deadlines that cannot be respected. We are pleased that these amendments have been adopted because we believe that these deadlines that we have proposed are far more realistic and applicable in practice. You have not adopted an amendment to Article 9, in Article 148 paragraph 5, the words "in the period left" are replaced by the words "in eight days". As it stands here, this article reads: ''When there are shortcomings in the process of reviewing the elaborates, the record requires a geodetic organisation to remove the deficiencies in the left-over period. This "leftover" is not defined, so I think you should accept our amendment. In order for anything to be done on land, it is necessary to know whose property it is owned as well as the purpose of the land itself. Catastres are now covering very detailed and valuable information at the level of each parcel. This is why the catastre is extremely important and important, both for each individual and for the community in general. That's why this law is important. First of all, the updated motifs allow easy real estate, property management, transfer of ownership, demographic analysis, control of development processes, security of property ownership, spatial planning, etc. Then they reduce or eliminate disputes and litigation. Unfortunately, the most common are border disputes, which lead to long and expensive litigation, often with severe social consequences. Also, well-furnished motisters allow for the improvement of spatial planning and infrastructure development and are the basis for spatial planning in cities and settlements. The primary role of spatial planning is to influence the spatial integration of the basic sectors, housing, transport, energy, industry, agriculture and to enable the improvement of the national, regional and local urban and rural development system, while respecting environmental protection criteria. There is no good, quality and rapid development without good spatial plans, which are important for the development of the municipality as well as for the development of cities, regions and the entire republic. The municipalities need to make spatial plans. They got an 18-month deadline for that. They should also make and make a decision about making spatial plans. In the journal Local Self-Government, your assistant Aleksandra Damnjanović-Petrovic warns all local self-government that the first deadline to be respected in 11 December 2009, when all local self-governments are obliged to, in accordance with the law, make decisions to join the municipality's spatial plan. I have knowledge, like you, Minister, that most municipalities, unfortunately, did not respect this deadline. The deadline expired three months ago. I'm interested in the sanctions for those municipalities that didn't respect this deadline and whether there are any. There are a lot of good experts in the area of spatial planning and a lot of good spatial plans in Serbia. And last time I pointed out that. I compared the spatial plans to the law. You have good laws, but they don't, unfortunately, apply. So you have good spatial plans, which are also not applied, that are standing in drawers and not being realized. And precisely spatial plans can solve numerous problems in the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, planning can get in the way of illegal construction. You can't and can't issue any more building permits if you don't agree with the spatial plan. The city can be prevented from spreading further urban chaos, it can stand in the way of the construction mafia, many things can be brought into order, it is only a matter of will and desire of the current authorities to fix this area properly. It must no longer be allowed to continue to be built unplanned, to occupy green surfaces, sidewalks, to build objects of a much larger gauge than were authorised. Urbanist chaos reigns in all Serbian cities. The buildings are built right next to each other, a window to the window, without adequate separation and distance, side by side, without any order - first with three floors, second with seven, third with five and so on. Then, one in glass, the other with a facade, the third covered with a façade brick, the fourth covered with stone, with no order, no plan, no aesthetics. This is the situation in all cities across the Republic of Serbia. It must be planned to build houses, buildings, buildings, edit streets, edit settlements, make it all order, style, look nice and make use of the land as rationally as possible. The spacious plans can also speed up the development of the village, prevent the departure of the rural population, prevent the shutting down of the village by enabling better living conditions by building a water and sewerage system, travel networks, health facilities, PTT, culture, banks, various services, sports and recreation sites, rural tourism development, etc. Normally, all of this should be done with the protection of cultural and historical monuments and natural rarity. A small number of children are born in the country. The white plague is ever more present. The state doesn't do anything to keep that small number of people. As a result, spatial plans are of paramount importance to allow normal living conditions and to stop the migration of the rural population. Also, in the villages there is insufficient construction, and in the cities there is too much overcrowding of objects, with a tendency to keep growing. It can also balance the development of the settlement in the next period, precisely with spatial plans. As for illegal construction, it's always been but it's been an explosive development for the last few years. As the state weakened, and its economic and investment power, the illegal construction grew, so that in this time it would completely overcome all forms of legal construction. The state then defined policy towards this phenomenon and was invented to legalise illegal construction, with the desire and the sole goal of raising money for budgets. There are illegal constructions everywhere – in the city center, on the edges of cities, on agricultural land. The inspections didn't respond. Some times they shouldn't have, some times they didn't want to, some are corrupt, etc. There are no respect for spatial or urban plans, so we have a situation that illegal construction has not bypassed even national and regional parks, areas of special natural beauty, spas, tourist regions, water supply protection zones, etc. It's normal that some objects won't be able to legalize themselves, and those who can, the question is whether they will. At a high price, certainly not. The legalisation price must be minimal and as realistic as possible, and in line with the benefits and opportunities of Serbian citizens. This morning, it was just in the journal that legalization on Vlasina cost between five and ten thousand dinars per square. If a hundred-square facility is to be paid for tens of thousands of dinars, it's a million dinars, ministers, to legalize a building on Vlassina. Do you think that the citizens of Vlasina, with average monthly incomes of 20 to 30 thousand, have a million dinars to legalize their facilities? I don't think you're gonna make it through this legalization and do anything at all with this price. I would also point out that there are citizens who, by their means, made the way, brought electricity, brought water, made complete infrastructure. Why are they charged with legalisation? They've all done absolutely themselves and for them the legalisation price must be small, low, almost how much it costs to book these houses and facilities. A very small number of objects have been legalized so far. I ask another question to the Minister – how much revenue has been achieved so far by legalisation and, perhaps even more importantly, what is the way in which these funds are spent? Were the funds used on purpose and how many infrastructures were made out of these funds? There are over a million illegally built buildings in Serbia. From a social and human point of view, those who can, should legalise, but, to repeat, the legalisation process must be quick, efficient and cheap in order to implement it in practice. In the end, I would repeat those most important questions to the minister and expect an answer. That's six questions. First of all, how many municipalities have decided to make spatial plans? Secondly, what are the sanctions for those municipalities that didn't do it? Third, why is the legalisation process transferred from city municipalities to the city of Belgrade when you advocate decentralisation? Fourth, how far have the revenues been achieved by legalization? Fifthly, were those funds used for purpose, i.e. How many infrastructures have been made out of these pairs? Sixth, where are the money that has been taken from Serbian citizens for years and allocated to the housing fund? A lifetime of work has been set aside with the goal of solving its living issue, most workers have lost their apartment and no money, so I ask you what is wrong with the money from the housing fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36272	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 11 and a half minutes have been used. Minister Dulic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36273	It's good questions, and I'll answer them very briefly. The exact information on how many municipalities have made decisions on the accession of these plans I will give you in writing, but I can tell you that this is about the largest number of municipalities. Only a few of them didn't do it. According to them, there are sanctions that involve the ministry's measures, under the law, to monitor the work. We do not want to file criminal charges against responsible persons at this time because we want to encourage these municipalities to come into the making of these plans. There are municipalities that hold tightly and do not understand that the time has come when they will have to be prepared planically and urbanly, and that is the basis for issuing permits and, in general, for development. Of course, there is a problem in inherited activities and in our mentality and everything that has been done so far to understand that another time has come. If by some miracle you were to, say, be a minister today, I'm sure you'd be a good minister and do the same thing we do today. It's identical. Because a different order cannot be introduced in Serbia in the area of construction and urbanism. All you've said is a great cross-section of what we have today, how many buildings, how many illegal objects, how it's built, how you've made the wrong time. You said, "In the last few years, there's been wild cities. I think it should have been said – in the past few hundred years there has been wild construction in Serbia, because Serbia was mainly a country where there was no practice of looking for paper or permission if construction was approached. So that's not the problem for the last few years, and that's the problem we need to fight today. As for the funds that will be income from legalization, first of all, I have to say that I am truly a witness that many municipalities have not well understood the legalisation process in the sense that it is a historic moment for the buildings to be legalised and the lines to be drawn, but they understand that this is now a way to earn some money in the budget, and then they have raised some compensation for the construction land, not realizing that these fees... They may make some money, but a lot of fewer citizens will enter the legalisation process because they will not have money for it, and no other investor will come because they have thus reduced the comparative advantage of the municipality because they have increased the fees. We communicate with all of them when we find out, but as a ministry, we can't define the price of compensation for the construction land because we're not in charge of it. In the Constitution it is defined as the jurisdiction of local self-government and the whole legalisation process is in the hands of local self-government. We created the prerequisites for this job to work. Whether or not it will succeed will be solely the responsibility of local self-government. If there's as much legalization on Lake Vlasin as you say there is, that's the problem of local self-government again. Let's see how to solve it. You, as a politician who comes from the region, act as if the price has been reduced, as many citizens have managed to act in local self-government to lower prices, as in Belgrade, as is likely to see different price fluctuations. When we talk about the truth that many have built settlements and invested in infrastructure, roads, sewerage, telephones and networks, and now through the legalisation process of local self-government, they are re-charging something that is an integral part of the land planning fee, I agree and my recommendation is that these costs be included and that it is a really corrective factor when it comes to pricing. So far, I have no record of how much money has come back from legalization. What is a fact is that under the law these funds must be spent on improving municipal infrastructure and we hope that they will be spent on improving municipal infrastructure. I don't have any data on housing issues right now. I'll deliver that to you later, as well as to these other questions I can't answer right now. We have a table view of all this and you will get very soon in response to parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36274	Thank you. Mr. Stevanović, replica or... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36275	Thank you. I also have time for an authorised representative. Mr. Minister, we really can't finish the story with "the thing of local self-government." I agree, the law and the Constitution have predicted what jurisdiction is. The state passed the law. She has adopted certain regulations and is now on local self-government. This isn't insistence. I don't know why. I speak for people who want to protect themselves from the boast of individuals at local level and, objectively, we even as politicians from that local level have no mechanisms to do so. The state has to predict it or you should have predicted it, and in the conversation, we need to recognize the mechanisms that we're going to be working on. We have, on several occasions and on other grounds, raised the question that the state is absolutely manifesting its weakness and within a year, the Ministry is making several solutions, which, for example, requires a public company in the municipality of Surdulic to return prices, that it does not illegally charge prices to citizens, and it simply does not. A year after that, it turns out that there is a mechanism and there is a regulation that allows the state to react and to act in such a boastful manner. Because what did they do? They raised legalisation prices in the Vlasina area, but at the same time, illegal construction is stimulated. That's what I was just talking about. Irregular construction is being stimulated in the area that is protected. All planning documents for the area have been defined. At the expense of state-interest facilities provided for by these plans and documents, objects are created which will be subject to legalisation in order for local self-government to come to money. Whether or not what is foreseen by spatial plans will collapse, by deciding that the area is Ramsaric, etc., it doesn't matter down there. You must accept that the minority in that congregation cannot handle it. That's why the state exists and that's why we are calling for you to ask, whether through a conversation with us or through other mechanisms, the fact that both citizens and the public interest are protected from the boast of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36276	Thank you very much. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36277	I couldn't agree more with you. I think we've arranged it, that a spatial plan of the area of special purpose has been brought in when it comes to Lake Vlassin. If it breaks, I can promise you that we will react, just as we have reacted to Zavojsko Lake, Uvajska Lake, and all other lakes where we, as a ministry, are in charge. As we insist that local self-governments remove illegally built objects, do this unpleasant thing, because it is not pleasant to tear down people's houses and it is certainly unbuttoned with certain risks and great inconveniences, and we have to do this in order to show determination to implement the law and order, so we will also do on this matter. Please deliver it to me because we have no information that illegal construction is happening. If the Ministry is in charge, that's what we'll do. If not, we'll have control. There's one more thing you've opened, and I really don't want to answer it anymore, and that's a matter of jurisdiction over utility companies. The environment and spatial planning ministry is preparing a law on municipal activities, which will also be one of the laws that needs to be regulated by the very unregulated area. We hope to define through it company competences, opportunities to establish partnerships with the private sector, but also to define how prices can be created for different types of municipal services. I hope that law will be in front of the MPs in May or June. Only then will we be able to define the mechanisms so that we can deal with the problems you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36278	Thank you. You used the right to the replica, Mr. Stevanović. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36279	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has not better confirmed the criticism of the LDP of the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration than today's Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre. At that time, we warned the Serbian government that it could not solve problems in the economic sphere by campaigning against its officials, which would lead to major deviations in the work of individual services. The state must first determine the jobs it will deal with, and only then determine the number of employees to follow these jobs, and not vice versa, to determine the number of employees, and then determine the jobs it will deal with. We had to strike in Catastra to see that reducing the number of employees without clear criteria could endanger the service. I'll only give an example of an organization unit in Priboj, where I come from, where the number of people employed in Catastra was scheduled to decrease from eleven to three. I will use your presence, Mr. Minister, to try to get answers to some questions concerning citizens from the Sandzak area, Novi Pazar, Preboj and other municipalities, and regarding the problem of obtaining approval for construction in the rural area, in areas for which no general or detailed regulatory or urban plans have been made. It is well known that this will no longer be possible, or it is a crime, but what can your ministry do to make those citizens who want to start this construction season go into the process of building their construction facilities without breaking the law? The LDP supports the legalisation process and we have already launched a campaign that monitors our position, but we should get information from you, Mr. Minister, regarding the obligation of units of local self-government to provide within 90 days of the entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction of the number of objects that should be legalised, i.e. those objects that do not have a building permit or any other permit. Did local self-government deliver that? If so, did they supply the correct number, i.e. approximately the exact number, or the data narrowed down? Also, under this Law on Planning and Construction, I think it is quite important, it envisions the introduction of a register of investors, as well as the establishment of a local information system of planning documents in local self-government. How far did this process of forming in certain local self-government come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36280	Thank you, Mr. Hajdarevich. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36281	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe this is a very important document, but we certainly have a grudge. Does this law, or its changes, have the power to apply? Are you, as Minister, the one who owns the law? I'm saying you didn't, and I'm going to illustrate that to you with a few examples. So you'll see how many things there are about this area, and as far as you're concerned, the relationship between you as a resolute minister, your ministry and local self-government. You know, certain parts of Belgrade call themselves "the ban on individuals," and I think the city of Belgrade is "the ban on Mr. Dragan Gilas". Mr. Minister, when housing is taken away from the passage, the playground and the area that belongs to those buildings in the area of four acres and brings a solution to the return of property, there is a problem why it is not implemented. And that's not an individual case in Belgrade. That's what you have in every part of Belgrade. Who is this individual and who is this authority that does not respect the law? That's why I'm telling you that the law is inconclusive, because it seems to me that there is someone who is stronger than you and than the law and who won't implement it. So that's one example. I'll tell you another example, Mr. Minister. How is it possible to reparcellize wages based on a statement made by one of the owners of that salary in 2001 when that person died in 1989? Here's the document -- the city of Belgrade, the center, the municipality of Vrakar. Who is in power in this city of Belgrade? DS, Mr. Dulic. When's the power to do that? The mayor of Belgrade. Third example, Mr. Minister. There is a part of Belgrade, a forest in Kostunica, which is the common good of all citizens of Belgrade. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in the middle of the trim track in the forest in Kosutnjak, across the street from the Republic Sports Institute, building solid objects, walled, tennis courts and pubs? That's the problem with law enforcement. So what do we do now, Mr. Minister? What's this story for, then? Why the law? Does anyone need to be sanctioned for this? In your explanation, Mr. Minister, you stated one way, as you call it, to approach the proceedings of denationalisation, restitution, or return of property. Well, you don't do that, or you don't do what you imagined in your politics. It's done quite the opposite – it's stolen, it's stolen, it's usurped, it's blatant. A few more questions have been raised here from the ruling coalition's MPs, and about the fishermen, and we think that's good. But, Mr. Minister, the other day there was a law in the Assembly that is also very important, the Law of Wildlife and Hunting. I didn't notice your involvement in that law. And do you know, Mr. Minister, what is the intensity of this law, what is the path? Again, kidnapping and confiscation. The abduction of hunting facilities and hunting homes by hunting societies. It's a threat to nature. So it is said of fishermen, and it seems to me, Mr. Minister, given your party's pre-election promise of 200,000 new jobs, that Serbia will soon have about six or seven million fishermen. Do you know why? Because people are gonna lose their jobs and then they're gonna have plenty of time to fish. That's the policy you're conducting. You're talking one thing and you're doing the other. And what do you think, you don't even know it yourself, within your own party. It's a policy conducted by the DS. That's how it's gonna be with this law. Mr. Minister, there has been a very important problem in the city of Belgrade. I didn't notice your presence. It's that unscrupulous haystack in the boulevard of revolution. You didn't say a word about it. We debated here, even the Assembly Committee dealt with this problem. We went to see Mr. Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade. Do you know what we saw? A plan document, which was magically removed even though promises to be sent to the public. And what happened happened happened, and we'll see the effects of that. And did you react, as resolute minister, when you cut down 400 platans and disrupted this city's ambience? Mr. Minister, we've been opening up a series of topics here in front of you. And debated and debated. And I remind you of another topic. In the Drina coast, there is an enterprise dealing with the production of concrete cubes that has paved the entire city of Belgrade. Do you know where that concrete girl is and a series of facilities illegally built? About a foot off the coast of Drina. Did you, as Resort Minister, do something, did you do something, did you send the inspection? You're not, Mr. Minister. So, what you're doing, it's a high-story policy, low-work and low-value policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36282	Eight minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I assume that your associates will tell you what I'm talking about, the SRS is the political party that first in this country sees the problem and makes proposals for its solution. The best confirmation of that is when this Law of State and Catastro was on the agenda in July and when we were talking about it. It is incomprehensible for us that after a few months we have a law on amendments and amendments to the law, and it is not disputed, that is, the role of Parliament to adopt and amend laws, that it adapts to the conditions of life and what is regulated by that law, but what is proposed in amendments and amendments to the law, it certainly should not have been the subject of amendments and additions. We cannot now dispute the political correctness that this should not change, because we have indicated that the eight-day deadlines are not only very short, but are not in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and it refers to the right of the parties in the procedure to file certain complaints or other requests within 15 days, and not eight days, as provided for by this law. Thanks to my colleagues from the SRS who spoke before me, and in the best way, lit up the problems of the Law on State Fair and Cataster and, certainly, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is commonly referred to as "the Law on Legalisation" and, given that they best pointed out problems and gave suggestions how to approach the solution of these problems, I can go further and, wishes for, to prevent him from pointing out to the Minister, but I do not now view him as a real minister for the field of environmental protection and spatial planning and construction, but as a member of the Government, and I stress the need to take account in the government when setting up the bill and that they agree with each other. It is pointless to say, in the reasons for this law to be passed, that it is being approached because it has been observed for five or six months, as far as this law is concerned, that the law does not comply with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It had to be taken care of in July, when we discussed this law, whether it was in accordance with other laws or not. Another reason is the removal of the conflict of certain legal provisions in the law itself. Well, when the law was made, it had to be taken care of. Given the basic interest of Minister Dulic, I can understand and understand that certain things are progressing at that moment, because every day, not in every respect, but in matters which are his obligations in the ministry, but if he didn't know at that moment, I guess in the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning there are people who have basic, elemental legal knowledge, and then there would be no such situation. This Law on State Prime Minister and Catastra should be seen as a general law in relation to the Law on the Determination of Maximum Number of Employees in the Republic Administration. The law on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration was adopted in December. Article 1 of that law says it is being reduced, or maximumed even in an absolute number of 28,400 employees in the state administration. Article 1 paragraph 4 of that law states that these provisions are not applicable to the Ministry of Defence, the BIA and the Criminal Sanctions Administration. Political correctness is in order to say that Article 3 of this Law states that these provisions on the maximum number of employees will not apply to the Republic Geodetic Institute, and that is quite a valid proposal. It won't apply because of the construction of Corridor 10, because of the need to legalise illegally raised objects, because it's a job of a really big scale. But these two laws must be brought into contact and Minister Dulic had to, when the law was passed, make some remarks concerning this law that it was not possible to do so at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. Given that this law has entered into force and acts on internal organisation and systematization in the Geodetic Office should be adopted, I ask the question – what will be on the agenda from 1 January to today, and especially what may be the vote on this law at the end of March? Practically, a certain number of people from the Bureau should be out of work, and perhaps many, I join the criticism of my colleague Stevanović, who works at the Institute (I am now speaking purely arbitraryly, but I suppose there are such situations) are not professionally trained to do these jobs in the best way, so in that sense, there should be some purification, but the number of employees should certainly be increased. Perhaps today should have spoken, if they are already on the agenda of the amendments and additions of the Law on State Fair and Cataster, and put on an analysis a number of members of this law that say that licences are granted by the Institute, and there are many experts in the Institute, in the center, in the services of the Catastra, who have passed in the Engineering Chamber and obtained licences. It shouldn't apply to such people. I can't agree, Mr. Minister, with you, when your colleague Mladenovic said there was a wild construction going on, and you said, "It's going on for a hundred years." In the part about how illegal construction was a hundred years ago, that's true. But do you know that since the announcement that the deadline for submission of the application for legalisation on March 11th has accelerated construction, but not only to meet its own needs, but also to get out of the market with the sale of residential or business premises? You had to take more care of that. And, just to take care of the diversity in the billing of legalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36284	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the motion states three reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law. The first is to comply with other laws, the second is to remove the conflict of certain legal provisions and the third is to define deadlines for the conduct of the Geodesy Institute. As we know, that's what you just said, the legalization process is under way, the legalisation process, the legalisation procedure for the illegalized objects. The procedure lasts until 11 March, or tomorrow. In Article 194. The Law on Planning and Construction provides that, if the person concerned does not apply for legalisation within this time limit, there is no extension of the time limit, i.e. that the request will be rejected because this is a pre-inclusive time limit. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that deadlines are one of the most important legal categories, according to the system of "prior temporas, potior iuras" - "first in time, stronger in right". There are, in fact, two types of deadlines here. One of these is those deadlines that are too inclusive, which I was talking about, and the other are the ones that concern the procedure itself. I'm going to say something about deadlines related to legalization itself. Problems in practice may arise with this other type of deadline, where the party to the procedure, under the orders of the body conducting the procedure, must, for example, provide a particular documentation within a certain period of 60 days. Let us take the condition that the party has submitted some documentation, however, that it has also filed a case against the court, for example, for the purposes of determining. What happens then? The Authority should, in its conclusion, suspend the procedure and allow the parties to delay the reintegration of this deadline by the end of the litigation procedure. However, as life brings certain problems, certain uncertainty, so will court practice. Legalisation has not actually begun, and some problems are already being encountered that will be in the legal process itself. What's that about? That's because this law, like this one, has failed to determine in fact the mechanism, Mr. Minister, whether someone in the legalisation process deliberately obstructs the legalisation process. There's no mechanism. So what's going to happen? Imagine the situation that the party that applied at the same time filed a lawsuit against the court as a prosecutor, the other party in the capacity of the defendant is a person who, for example, is an earlier seller under some private contract. And what's going on? That former salesman, of course, finds a lawyer. This lawyer, as usual, is beginning to obstruct the procedure in a way that will take much longer than it should. This is where a trio is created, a triling -- a state body, a lawyer, a party in the process, and, you know, the procedure is stalled by that tried-out system, which is usually handled by individual lawyers, that while one litigator drags the cow by the horns, the other by the tail, the lawyer is milking her. The procedure is stalling, and what's going on? This is all done to damage the party that is in the legalisation process. This is a relatively simple example of how this legalisation process will be delayed, and in practice there will be even more complex procedures. Mr. Minister, imagine the situation that within 60 days certain documents should be delivered. Here, I'll give you a more complex example. So the party that applied for legalisation bought land from co-owners. There are more co-owners here. Some of the co-owners may have died, abroad or in the former Yugoslav republics. And what's going on? As a previous issue, a desert procedure is put in place and until the process is completed, a litigation cannot be completed either. Only when the abandonment process is completed is there to be an end to the litigation process. Simply, the one who applied for legalisation will eventually forget when and for what reason he submitted the request. Something like this is going to happen when, say, you ask a few philosophers and he answers you, and after answering that question, you don't really know what you're asking him yourself. That's how it's gonna happen with this party that applied for legalization. So much for these deadlines in the context of the legalization of illegally built objects. There's just one more thing to say. The Geodetic Institute shall be exempt from the application of the Act on the maximum number of employees for two reasons. One is, in fact, these loans that have been taken from the IMF and which are actually brakes to be arranged in the manner that the Geodetic Institute should be arranged. So, by taking every new loan, we're getting into a new trap. What we think we have, in fact, has us, and so it's impossible for the Geodetic Institute to arrange how it should be arranged. And one more thing to say. The geodetic institution shall be exempt from the application of this law without the number of workers required to carry out these tasks. It is also excluded, without previously clear and accurate analysis of the necessary funds for the reception of new workers. It is also excluded without an analysis of the possibility of redistribution of labour, and it is only concluded that new financial resources are not needed for the application of this law. New funding is needed, and that should have been made clear. In fact, funding is needed from that budget that almost the President of the Republic said is very slow to fill, that it is not satisfied with how funds are being poured into the budget. Of course he's not happy, and he can't be satisfied, for one simple reason -- and who's going to fill that budget, whether they're on the track, whether they're dissatisfied workers trying to show their problems on international roads and stripes, whether they're victims of mob privatisation, whether they're hungry, whether they're unemployed, etc.? You boast of supposed successes. You survive because you have most, what kind of majority, but you know, remember only those sayings – the minority is sometimes right, and most are always wrong. I deeply believe that saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36286	Seven minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, it is good that you have opened this topic regarding the possibility of converting land rights into property because it is precisely the biggest robbery that is happening in Serbia right now. You, of course, have tried unwisely to reduce your responsibility and say that it is now in the hands of the IRS and that the Ministry has nothing to do with it anymore, but that, Mr. Dulic, we cannot accept in any case. Here, I'll tell you why. The hot potatoes were placed in the hands of the tax administrations and local self-government units not by the Law on Planning and Construction, because at that point in time there was a controversy in the public, because a solution that would have been made in favour of those who were in the privatisation of buying enterprises not in order to maintain production, not to extend it, in order to further employ workers in Serbia, but, above all, to reach the building land under extremely favourable circumstances. The best example for this is the port of Belgrade, because this is the land located in Belgrade's most recent centre, and if you have arrested some construction mafia in Zrenjanin and claimed that the construction mafia has earned millions of euros, imagine how many amounts are being taken in terms of not a few acres, but more than a hundred hectares, in Belgrade's lowest centre, on the Danube coast. It's absolutely the most prospective land, and it's certain that the profits will be huge. I would remind the public that Mr. Miskovic owns Luke Belgrade, although Luka Belgrade was bought through some Luxembourg company as it was practice in privatisation, and that there is a plan for his corporation to build a housing complex of 2.5 million square meters. If the profit is achieved only a thousand euros per square, and I am sure that it will be at least that much because the prices of both business and housing in that location will be extremely large, we simply conclude with a simple calculation that someone's income (extremity profit, as we might call it) will be around 2.5 billion euros. I deeply believe that the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not only anti-constitutional and illegal, but is the fruit of an agreement that exists for many years. I'm going to do a retrospective of what you and the other DS leaders were saying. Before the 2008 elections, you were all extremely firm in the view that there will never be anything built there, that Luka Belgrade is one of the four strategic ports in Serbia. You, Mr. Dulic, have repeated this later, and we see that you are slowly coming to the owners of large-scale capital, the largest tycoons in Serbia, allowing, after this robbery privatisation, to now and the right to use land under the most favourable conditions, under conditions far from the market, translate the conversion into property rights. You claim that this conversion will be done by making a statement from the market price of a given land, which is what you have been saying and thus misleading the public, the price denied will be invested in the acquisition of the privatisation. That's wrong, Mr. Dulic, for a few reasons. The first and main reason is that the right to use construction land when buying Luke Belgrade did not even enter the estimated value. When Luka Belgrade was bought, let's start from that, the estimate of the Economic Institute's accounting value of capital only of basic assets, without land, without many other things was 1,773 dinars per share. The price offered, if I'm not mistaken, was 494 dinars. That is the price offered to the Serbia Action Fund. Finally, 800 dinars per share were paid, and the price at the stock market reached even 7,000 dinars per share at certain times. So, it's been sold at 800, the price has reached 7,000, so count for yourself what amount that state lost. Of course, the whole game around that land has been going on for a long time. The attempt to resolve and reach certain facts was also in the City Assembly when, on 13 April 2009, a Commission was formed to identify facts related to the handling of competent authorities and organisations in connection with the status of Luke Belgrade's location. The commission was formed on a proposal from the LDP, and all other parties of the ruling coalition in Belgrade -- DS, SPS, G17 and all others -- supported the whole process. Of course, when you formed that commission, the goal was to create in public an illusion that you had nothing to do with Mr. Miskovic, that this was not about one of the biggest robberies in the 21st century, and it was probably about the biggest robbery and the state budget and the citizens of Serbia, but you didn't count on anyone to do anything serious on that commission. The commission held several meetings, a lawyer was heard, Oliver Glisic, a member of the City Council, Belgrade Mayor DraganDilas was also heard. In 2008, before those republican and local elections, he spoke and entertained Serbia's public claims that there is no force to force him to leave the land, which belongs to the city and to the Belgrade citizens, to tycoons. For example, I'll read you just one thing. At that time, in April 2008, he said that according to estimates of land experts on which Luka Belgrade is located, it is worth about 500m euros. It is, of course, and significantly more, but that after Luke's transfer he should return that property to town. Gilas said he was not interested in whose ownership the company is and added that Luka Belgrade had received land for use and that, if it is no longer engaged, it should be returned to the original owner. In accordance with the previous Law on Planning and Construction, local self-government units had commissions whose task was to, in accordance with the law, if someone was given land for use and not brought in for use, take away the land and return it to the units of local self-government. After the 2008 elections, who do you think is the president of the commission in Belgrade? It was Mr Oliver Glisic, otherwise a member of the City Council, one of Luke Belgrade's lawyers. If you checked the web presentation of Mr Glisic's law firm today, I believe you would still find his name there and find Luke Belgrade in the client list. Obviously, there is a conflict of interest in all of this. Of course, Mr Glisic did not implement the provisions of the law and did not initiate a procedure to take away the land which is now disputed by Luke Belgrade, but said he was awaiting adoption (this is something I asked him at one of the session of the Survey Committee) of the new law. Imagine a lawyer who says - I will not act according to the current law, waiting for another. And he obviously, like you, Mr Dulic, as well as Mr Gilas, knew what this new law would be, because you wrote it along with the tycoons that benefit the most from this, as did the government of Serbia's rule on criteria on which the conversion of the right of use to the property of this land would be done along with Miskovic, Bek and other tycoons, which unfortunately no media should speak and against which only representatives of the SRS should raise their voice. "To make the matter even more interesting, Belgrade City Building Directorate President Milan Perovic is also one of Luke Belgrade's legal advisers, and he is also appointed to the post on the LDP proposal, although, as they acknowledge, he is not a member of the LDP but of the DS. All of this, dear gentlemen, shows that this is a serious accident, that you will in this way damage both the budget of the city of Belgrade and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and it is clear that you are absolutely all involved in this. These five criteria you have given, Mr. Dulic, have been made so that what was given in the purchase of Luke Belgrade would be further increased, i.e. to reduce the price and compensation that the owners of Luke Belgrade will have to pay in order to make land conversion. Mr. Dulic, please answer all of this specifically now, and then we'll have a chance to continue this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36288	Eleven minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36289	I will answer all MPs at the end when the debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36290	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36291	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will start with the critical relationship of the minister, who has admitted here that because of his mistake, that is, the ministry's mistake, these changes and additions have occurred. Minister, just to tell you you're not guilty. You are a professional doctor and it is natural that you cannot bear responsibility for the failures that are predominantly formal-legal nature, i.e. exclusively formal nature. You don't understand that, but what you need to understand is that your services have made mistakes. Your services at the Ministry had to carry out everything you've given us here in the context of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastrophe. Namely, in your reasons for passing this law, you say you are proposing amendments and additions to the laws due to the failures that occurred, and they are the result of the illegality of the law with other laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Two are the removal of the conflict of certain legal provisions and the third is the definition of deadlines for the conduct of the Republic Geodesy Institute. These are purely formal-legal reasons. Minister, when you come out here and say it's the Ministry's fault, then you have to punish those responsible for it. Legal services in your ministry, the government's legal service and all other services of state authorities must not allow cohesion, non-compliance with legal regulations. And where are you to blame, Minister? You are guilty of failing to train a state body that is now the most important in the process of regulating relations in the area of space and legalisation, which is the Geodetic Institute. The Geodetic Institute, which you also don't know, won the battle with the theorists who advocated further work through the land book, the grantine, especially in the space of Vojvodina. What the legal services of the Geodesy Institute have done is that they have succeeded through a pragmatic approach to overcome theoretically based principles based on elements of the German school. What we have today, a land book, a cadastrian book, is currently the most modern form of keeping records. That's what you don't know, that's what I'm going to tell you, and you need to pay far more attention to the Geodetic Institute. Why? Because the same service that's on the back today has tens of thousands of cases that are unsolved... And why are they unsolved? Because they do not have a sufficient number of workers, they do not have a sufficient number of professional workers, they are not technically equipped enough, they do not have information technologies that require this form of work and treatment, they do not have adequate earnings, which should be far greater and far better access for all other state authorities to this state body. The Geodetic Institute has the most important task at the moment, in addition to all those brought by the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, to resolve the legalization process. What's most important for the state system right now is that legalization is done. He can't do that. We had a strike at the Geodetic Institute a month ago. I'm coming from Novi Sad. In Novi Sad, dozens and hundreds of parties stood before the Geodesy Institute. They're still standing today, and they're going to be standing in the future. Why? Because they don't have adequate rooms, they don't have enough workers to do normal, they don't have technologies to do and they need to process an adequate number of objects. As for the legalization itself, the lawless construction, the Minister, this law and this system of state control, you will not stop. First, legalization is not resolved in a normative sense. Here, in practice, to start now from the fee (it may be irrelevant in a formal legal sense, but it is important from a financial, economic and political aspect), the data – per square metre in India will pay three euros, in Novi Sad 14 euros (I am talking about individual housing), and in Belgrade about the same municipal construction of 67 euros. Look, with regard to the municipal construction of Inji, there are no 22 times less costs, and neither is Novi Sad five times. How can such a situation be allowed? You made it possible through the law. In 2003, the forest man talked about how cheap, accelerated, transparent legalisation would be, etc. We didn't do any of that. It's legalized, we talked about it in principle, some 12-15% of the objects that went into the process. With this difference, be assured that citizens of Belgrade cannot pay such a high price, regardless of what will be paid in more war. What is important to stress is that, through this way of raising funds, citizens in Belgrade and other local self-governments where such high fees for regulating building land are cut, they pay high taxes as a type of tax, state retaliatory, state rents, etc. Legalization can't be tax fees, there can be no kind of retribution because you missed the procedure, you didn't get a building permit, you didn't get a used permit, etc. Minister, you must return to this House the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Legalisation, which will, in complex terms, consider all the elements that I have spoken of. You listened to representatives of the opposition talking about problems in legalization. This law certainly won't solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36292	Seven minutes and 20 seconds were spent from the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic wants to point to the injury I've done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36293	Mr. Novakovic, I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, that a member of 104 has been injured. I consider that because all MPs, all 250 of us here have the same rights and same obligations. I think in my discussion, I was extremely correct, as was most of our colleagues today. You've allowed certain moments of debate to lead, I'm not saying that for my debate, but for some other colleagues, who are DS, I'm not going to mention names, but I'm going to remind you that we've even discussed fishing licenses here today, even though this law has nothing to do with it. My entire discussion was focused precisely on this law and I must say that I am surprised that Mr. Dulic immediately responded to each MP's remarks, and I am the first MP here he has not found for the same thing. In this way I think that dignity has been injured, of course mine, but the dignity of this entire house, because the minister has an obligation to treat all MPs in the same and appropriate way. Mr. Dulic, I must admit, I appreciate him as a person, seemed completely knighted as he confronted today with those who had no or very weak arguments, but the moment he faced real arguments, with what the citizens of Serbia most interested in, he fled from the battlefield. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36294	Of course, there's no harm done to Article 104 because I gave the word to Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister said what he felt was appropriate to say, and that's how we ended this dialogue. After the minister answered his word again, I give him my word, because that's what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36295	Thank you. To me, denying my ability to react to what you've presented would be a big problem. With great pleasure, I would like to debate with you on such an important topic, because several times in the debate today I wanted to explain, first of all, to the public, and then to the MPs, who, I am sure, know more than the public, the very essence and purpose of not this law, but the Law on Planning and Construction, which defined the question of turning right of use into property rights. I also note that Mr. Sarovic is practicing for a much more important performance, which is probably on one of the Belgrade city's bodies where the Luke Belgrade issue is being discussed and where it should be discussed, because Luka Belgrade is just one of hundreds of cases of turning right of use into property rights with the compensation that will take place in Serbia in the future. At this point in Serbia, debates are taking place in an attempt to put the Planning and Construction Act out of effect. The first to try this are people like Mr. Sarovic, who, I am convinced, believe that in this way they protect legality and constitutionality, have no ultimate interest whatsoever and think it will help the citizens of Serbia. It is a legitimate right and I cheer every time someone believes it helps the citizens of Serbia. Others who are trying to do the same thing, to achieve the same effect are precisely those who have invested their large capital in the last decades in businesses not because of continuing production, to employ people, to increase the country's economic capacity and industrialise further our country, but to buy cheap land through these companies. I said today and I will repeat it again – when the Law on Planning and Construction was passed, we knew that we would face two groups of people who would try to achieve the same goal with different arguments, which is that in the end both Luka Belgrade and many other objects will not be paid to citizens, budget and state as much as they are worth. So you're not trying to charge more for this country than you're trying to tear down the concept. I don't think such attempts are good. We will implement the conversion and we will make sure that the real market price, as much as land that is being converted minus the costs that were in the privatisation of these enterprises, is charged and that this is spent on further development of municipal infrastructure and for the Restitution Fund, as the Law provides. Now let's talk specifically about Lucy. I love talking about Lucy, though, I say, Luke isn't the only place where the conversion is going to happen. We tried to separate two groups in a group of companies to pay the conversion, to make one group those who bought the companies to produce it further, which in the meantime, other than the price they paid for privatisation, invested multiple amounts to buy new machines, employ new people, allow the company to survive on the market and expand its production. They are fully equated with new investors, who come to Serbia today and want to invest money, want to hire people, want to industrialise Serbia, and we allow them to get land below market prices and even free of charge. We need to enable those who were correct to our economy, who wanted to continue the process of production, to be different in treatment than those who bought businesses, the dinars did not invest, they fired people, they couldn't wait to shut down the factory to destroy it, to change some plan in some municipality, to allow it to be no longer industrial but land for business and residential activities, and to build some building and make money there. So when we talk about this calculation, how we count to protect those who invested, that is – the market value estimate today minus the total price of capital is equal to the price that will have to be paid. When we talk about Lucy Belgrade, whatever assessment we take of Luke Belgrade's land today, we must first ask ourselves what Luka Belgrade is. Today, the city is disputed with Luka Belgrade and the area we are talking about changes from day to day. The Belgrade port consists of three parts. The first part is the public surfaces of public property, which is a segment of land that serves port operations, which cannot just change and can not be built on anything. He won't touch himself. The second part today is the right use of the city of Belgrade, is state property and is in dispute with Luka. The third part is the undeniable use of Luke Belgrade. Some TV shows, which deal with this problem, say Luka Belgrade is 2.5 billion euros. We can also agree on some estimates that say Luka Belgrade is costing a billion euros. We can make estimates based on the usual procedural and evaluation mechanisms, take the average value of land traffic in the same or similar area, and calculate that Luka Belgrade may cost about 700 - 800m euros, at today's prices. As much as Luka Belgrade costs, that price will be taken away from the capital invested by the buyer Luke, which is somewhere between 40m and 50m euros, and the difference will have to be paid. In theory, it's going to be huge money that's going to blend into the city's infrastructure development register and the Restitution Fund. What the law also predicted, of course not done suddenly, Luka Belgrade has different types of parcels, there are different interests in building in Lucy Belgrade, but plots per parcel, as the conversion takes place, will have to be paid. The basis for issuing the permit will be the conversion and we expect, in the years ahead, that, finally, big money for the state is being deposited on this basis. Now I ask you a question – what's the problem now? You say that this is corruption of huge proportions and that Serbian radicals are the only ones who can say something against Miskovic, Beka, etc. Let me tell you something. We have made more trouble for them by this law which we have passed and by this regulation, believe me, than you have made for millions of words that you say from this place where you sit. That's for sure. So, in their heads, I'm a bigger opponent than you, because we've done something that no one expected, we've charged for what most people thought was done. In the former Yugoslavia, there was a right to use. In most former Yugoslav republics, the right to use has been converted to property rights without any compensation. It was expected to be in Serbia as well, and that through the process everyone would come very cheaply to construction land. We didn't allow it and we introduced a mechanism that we knew would be controversial, we knew it would be a lot of accusations of being dishonest, but we have to finish this job because we can't leave that land hanging in the air without any property status. Let me say, in the end, how imagined this mechanism is. I didn't deliberately kick the IRS ball. Tax administration is the only authority in this country that has the right to assess the value of immovable property, real estate, land, etc. I've invited all those who suspect these evaluations to join the evaluation teams. I said what my proposal was. My proposal is not to now make local self-government and local tax administrations, which I claim have not enough capacity, deal with such a serious business, not that they take it now so as to assess, because these estimates have largely proved to be either too large or too small, or, of course, these people are subject to different kinds of influence. I have proposed to the IRS that a special team of people, a special office, be formed to hire the best experts that exist at this point in the IRS, to engage foreign appraisal houses that will deal with the sole question of how much a certain land is worth, to include people who are currently engaged in the fight against corruption. So we have to do this process absolutely congruently, because, you're right, it only happens once in history. The moment someone becomes the owner of the land, it's the end of the story. Forever he owns that land. This is the only way to get out of this problem. I know you're on that Survey Committee very active. I support you in your work and I encourage you to push as much price as possible for Luka Belgrade and for all other parcels, so that this country can earn something and that we can rebuild the Building Land Fund, which should certainly be expanded and developed. Don't just, please, bring me personally into any kind of relationship with whatever you're talking about here, because we really managed to define by our law the process of correcting some of the injustices and some of the imperfections that happened through privatisation procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36296	Thank you, Minister. The word, based on the replica, will be given to Mr. Sarovic, although the minister praised him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36297	Mr. Dolliche, you're the one who's responsible. You are the minister, you are the one who, I suppose, has prescribed and proposed such a regulation as the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted. You're trying to protect yourself with some demagogue stories, saying, first of all, how will you, by making the tycoons in Serbia come to cheap building land, lower the price of squares. That's not true. You'll only increase the tycoon's income during the sale of that residential and business space. And when you say the land should be sold on market terms, I agree, but, Mr. Dulic, you didn't prescribe this provision. That's what the problem is. So, I'm not, Mr. Dolicu against the system, I'm already against the robbery. And to understand what this is about, Luka Belgrade has been bought for 40m euros. Not 40 or 50, but 40 million euros. The land was not bought on that occasion, because the value of land, the right to use, was valued as zero. Absolutely no money for that is given. Now he's crossing the land into property. Instead of paying for that property, you say – what you gave for the factory (and what was also too little), we will again count it for your land. That, Mr. Dulic, is economic, legal, moral, whatever you want, absolutely pointless. When you talk about the criteria for determining that compensation, the market can first and only determine what the market value is. Your criteria are so designed that this alleged market value, which will be established by the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance, is far below the real and real price. That is what you are responsible for, Mr. Dulic, as is the whole regime and the government of Mr. Cvetkovic. You have five criteria, and you're only talking about one - market value. But, Mr. Dulic, market value in a similar or same urban zone. It's not the same. Let's see which one's similar to Luke Belgrade's location. It's a criterion that's pretty wide. You say then – the average traffic value in that area in the last year. You could have sold two acres instead of these 200 acres at a cost of 1,000 euros and said – here, the average price in the last year is 1,000 euros. That's what the problem is, Mr. Dulic. You know very well that the location of the Dorcool marina is similar. Two and a half hectares were sold for 30m euros. If we were to use that criterion... Why didn't you say the average price in the last five years? Then these 130,000 euros per ar would have entered the average. For that size, for 100 acres (not to go to 117, to make it easier to count) of 130,000 acre, that's 1.3 billion, Mr. Dulic, not 700 or 800 million. That's a big difference. Further,... (President: Time.) Please finish. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36298	I don't know, but I'm sure Mr. Dulic will get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36299	Here's a chance for a replica, Mr. Sarovic, just so you don't get the impression that the two of us here don't understand one essential thing, and that's the question of whether it should be charged. I agree, that should be charged. You said you were against robbery. And I'm against robbery and there's no difference between the two of us. I don't think you're being unfair, but I'm as honest as you are. Now we're talking here about something that should be one process that's going to be conducted and it's definitely going to be under the public eye, and you're going out with different calculations what would happen if it were and what would happen. What's gonna happen, we'll see about that. Models of how the calculated market value is not determined by me. This is determined by the people involved and the regulation is drawn up by different experts. My ministry was just the one that took part in it. That is, in particular, the financials that deal with the issue. It's a common model as the market value of anything here is estimated. Traffic in the last year, two, five, however much, as someone defines it there, at that or similar location, and traffic was, of course, at those locations a lot, and that's something that's average value. I'm afraid of what happens if there's no traffic at all, in which way it's determined, but that's why there are professional people and there are common methods of doing it. Don't ask me why it's like that. That's how you do it. Your fear is that this value will be estimated below. My fear is, not because of Luke Belgrade, because Luka Belgrade is the exemplar around which the entire success or failure of this conversion will be, my fear is what will happen if in some other cities and municipalities, where this land may be the only resource and where it is the only possibility for the city to expand or some housing to happen, what if it is estimated much more and this owner of that land says – I will not convert, which I care about, so that the land parks and it becomes a terrible problem for the city, and that he, the owner, has no obligation to make a conversion and the state cannot repay it. You have to understand one thing. In the debate on the Law on Planning and Construction, you proposed to introduce a mechanism for re-, ex-post land bids that are rightly used on parcels that are part of the factories that are privatised. How do you think it's done? How do you think someone you sold the factory to, who became the owner of the factory, you'll now later bid that land to determine the market price? Guys, that's impossible. We gave a model that was only possible and realistic. What is the total price of capital charged for? Every citizen of this country bought a house or apartment and got free land under it. I've explained well to you, I just want to make a difference between those who have invested huge money in the factory and I don't think they should pay the same price now as those who haven't invested anything. The only way to make a difference between them is to count how much capital is invested in it. In this way we leveled all people and all legal and physical persons in this country, because they have the right to become property owners under the facility, and we made the difference between those who have not invested anything and those who have invested a lot, because I think they can fall into the same category as new investors who come and get free land from the state because, for God's sake, they invest their money, they open jobs and we finally re-industrize Serbia. That's what we need most in the world. I don't know what would help us now more than try to attract as much foreign investment as possible and enable what many countries have already made possible, which is to assign free land, as "Fiyatu" and everyone else. Do you want to come open a factory, do you want to hire people? Here's your criteria, you hire people, here's your land. Because they have it both in Romania and Bulgaria and Moldova and wherever they go unless they come to Serbia. I think the same thing should be applied, at least in a similar volume, to those who bought the factory five years ago, so they invested a huge amount of money, so that at least we could give them the opportunity to account as the value of the land. So it was a basic idea. This isn't about us wanting to go out with anyone, make a deal. If that were the case, I wouldn't have had these big and much more serious attacks than this attack of yours here in parliament that this law would try to put itself out of force, which certainly won't happen. So, you do your job, you follow Luke's price, like we're gonna follow her, do whatever it takes to get the truth to the end, but don't say what's gonna happen in advance. I think there's so much public presence and focus at this point on Lucy Belgrade, I doubt anything can happen. I'm afraid that this land will eventually be auctioned, there will be built, that the port's activities will remain in that section called public property, under the future law will also be recognised as public property, the law on port operations, and will not be able to privatise, and that this segment, which is here between, will remain to hang because it will not enter the conversion, and in the end it will turn into a ruin and we won't be able to round the urban continent of the city. I hope that it may happen once, if the investor does not make a decision to invest, as it has now happened in Belgrade, that investors have not detained the land's purpose and simply return land to the city in order to get it back on bid. It's a very complicated operation. She's transparent and I invite you to follow her. You're in the city hall, you're a member of this task force, you continue to communicate with the mayor about it. We, on our part, have done everything possible to complete this process as far as possible. It's not perfect, but believe me, there's no better at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36300	Thank you. We're all against robbery. No one is attacking anyone here, but there is a healthy debate and debate. The word has Mr. Sarovic, for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36301	Mr. Dulic, first of all, I must inform you that Mr. Gilas's will has blocked the work of this commission. So, the commission had to finish its work within 60 days, and later the deadline was extended until September 2009, and from September 2009, to this day, despite several written requests from members of the commission appointed before the SRS and Mr Mamula of the DSS, Mr Randic, who is chairman of the Survey Committee, refused to schedule the next session. It's clear that you're scared of the public, but when you say we should follow and not talk about what's going to happen and evaluate, that's where we disagree. I think it's our job to just assess what's going to happen based on the legal and sublegal acts you're bringing in. What you have done by passing the Law on Planning and Construction and by adopting this Regulation on the regulation of criteria, Mr. Dulic, you and your government, is called systemic corruption. You create system conditions to damage the state, and then you will all wash your hands and say – everything is done in accordance with the law. I remind you of what you said – this was in 2009. I'm sure you said that because you thought it was right, and I agree with that, but obviously, Mr. Dulliche, you weren't familiar with it at the time. In the meantime, someone came in, maybe turned your hand a little bit and said – now some other story will be forced. If we're talking about spatial documents, if we're talking about the law, about the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, it's the law. This is one of four ports. And you made that clear. No matter what anyone's saying, and we're talking about the highest-class planning document, that's the Space Plan, he says -- that's where Luka is, and there's no way to prescribe anything else with the low-order planning document because the inspector's going to come out, so we're going to run the process. That's right, Mr. Dulic, according to Belgrade's general plan by 2021, Luka is also here. But, Mr. Doolic, I'm willing to bet with you whatever you want to change that. Can anyone, can you guarantee here with your property, honor, political career that by 2021 Luke will be here? Of course not. And let the story go. What if the investor decides to park the land? Then it's taken away. You were under obligation, Mr. Dulic, under the previous law, to insist that land be taken away from which no purpose was brought. Do you know when land was given to Luka Belgrade and how it was given, under what conditions? He gave the city of Belgrade free of charge to use exclusively for port operations. It wasn't just a port operation. You know there's a Delta, there's an IDEA, there's an office and there's a lot of other work going on there. There's nothing in Luke Belgrade's space.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36302	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Replication time's up, we understand. As the last reported in a row, the word has been issued by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36303	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I was in the village of Krnjevo near the Great Plana, and my voters ordered me to begin today's exhibition with Minister Dulic – when will the Serbian Government and his ministry end the state of emergency, which in that village lasts about a month because of the government's attempts to store dangerous waste in it? The decision that a military facility located on the hills above the Krnjev warehouse of hazardous waste was concluded by the government on June 25th 2009. The same conclusion excludes the facility from the Ministry of Defence and is handed over to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. That their village would be used for the disposal of hazardous waste, the people of Krnjev found out by accident from workers who came to bring the object in for the purpose. From that day on, they blocked the facility with agricultural machines, kept 24-hour day-to-day watch in front of it, and said it would hold them until the government changes its decision. The government temporarily suspended works on the facility, however, remained in the position to store dangerous waste in Krnjev. I ask the minister to answer a sound question – how is it possible, apart from dozens of abandoned military facilities in uninhabited or rarely populated areas of Serbia, besides many abandoned mines, the government to decide that dangerous waste is being stored in the middle of Pomorava, literally in orans, on the edge of a densely populated village, several hundred metres from sources from which the village is supplied with water and several hundred meters from important cultural monuments? Mr. Minister, the disposal of waste in Krnev would not only pose a permanent threat to human health and the environment, but also a violation of a series of legal regulations and decisions made by your government. I'll count them now. It is also against the law against good household practice, and each state should act as a good host, that the works on that facility began without local self-government, the municipality of Great Plan and the local community of Krnjevo were not at all familiar with the government's decision to store dangerous waste in their place. Secondly, a spatial plan in the municipality of the Great Plan, and the spatial plan is confirmed by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and the regulation plan for the populated town of Krnjevo is not intended to build an object similar to that location. Third, I have here a rule on how to deal with waste that has a property of dangerous matter, adopted by the Serbian Government. In point 7 of point 1, point 1 is said – the warehouse is situated so that the distance from the settlement is at least five kilometers away. The facility you intend to turn into a warehouse is several hundred meters from the first village houses. Same rule, same article, item 2. – the distance of that facility must be at least three kilometres from the protected natural goods, i.e. cultural monuments. The facility is located several hundred metres from the 17th century cabin church and the building of the oldest rural elementary school in Serbia. As I said, the warehouse is located close to a number of sources from which the captages from which Krnjevo and the elementary school, attended by several hundred students, are supplied with water. The reconstruction works of this facility, which began to be carried out by some company from Panchev, began without a building permit, and it was established by the building inspector's record, which I have here. I'll read you a member of the law relating to the issue of building permits. Article 133 – The Ministry shall issue a building permit for the construction of buildings, including point 11) for plants for the treatment of hazardous waste by burning, thermal and/or physical, physical, chemical, chemical, and central storage and/or waste disposal. The next, perhaps most unlikely, is that no environmental impact assessment has been made, which has been mandatory under the government's regulation since 11 December 2008. Today in Serbia, you can't lift a simple shed, a simple garage if you don't have an environmental impact assessment and it's just amazing that the government is moving in this kind of adventure to create a storage dump without this assessment. Mr. Minister, as you can see, there is no regulation governing this area that the government, in which you run the responsible ministry, has not broken. We've received an answer from the Ministry that it's a military facility, so it's not subject to civilian regulations. But that's not true. The facility is owned by the Republic of Serbia, has been used by the Ministry of Defence, the government has exempt it from the Ministry of Defence and has given it to use the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Secondly, waste in the facility will be stored by a company, which is the right to store waste in the tender. So this argument of the government, that it's a military facility and that no civil regulations can apply to it, simply doesn't drink water. The resistance of the people of Krnjev to store dangerous waste in their place is even more understandable if the fact is that several hundred meters above the village, about on the highs where this warehouse should be, is already a large dump. This dump belongs to the neighboring municipality of Smederevska Palanka. We have repeatedly warned the neighbouring municipality of Smederjevska Palanka and the competent republican authorities as local self-government and peoples of Krnjev, however, each time we were evicted. I ask the question, Mr. Minister - when the state in such an obviously and brutally important area violates its own laws, when the government violates the regulations and regulations itself, how can you expect citizens to respect both the state and the regulations that your government brings?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36304	Thank you, Mr. Maric. The time has expired for the debate of your parliamentary group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer signed up for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search – do they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93? Yeah. ) Mrs Judita Popovic, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36305	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, the LDP has since begun, during the summer when we discussed the famous Law on Planning and Construction, said that the law is absolutely wrong. He's wrong for one basic reason. First, the very name of this law says it's about planning and building. What, then, in this law of provisions relating to the conversion of the right to use in the right of ownership? Those provisions were literally pushed into that law at a small door, and now Mr. Minister wonders why this law is all disputed. And he is challenged by all but the congregation majority and himself, and probably by his associates, while everyone else claims that the law has obvious faults that cause huge confusion. Why is that? Because these provisions relating to conversion are literally revolutionary. Why? Because with this conversion, we're putting off the power of the right to use, which is a socialist creation. The socialist system, as such, is no longer available, but it is obvious that social property relapses and socialist rights of use are still very strong and resilient. For this very reason, because it is a serious issue, it could not be put into the form of several provisions of a law and as specific as the Law on Planning and Construction. Mr. Minister may have his own opinion on the law and consider it to be the best in the world, but the results and facts of the law's implementation speak quite differently. Let's just look at what's going on with the construction industry, and the construction industry makes 25% of the Serbian industry, which otherwise appears in the hints. As far as I know, at least 700 construction firms have ceased to exist or have been liquidated because of certain problems created by this Law on Planning and Construction. What about investments, foreign and domestic? At every step, we hear a story about that there is no economic recovery without investment. Here's the Serbian Davos on the Kopalnik, the main thesis is investment, investment, investment. With such a law, which literally puts two criteria for the conversion of the right to use in private property, which applies retroactively, there will be no investment, and those that have already occurred are under question. What if the one who doesn't want to convert, and it's a legal person, the businessman, and let that property be parked? I will answer you—he will not let it be parked, he will alienate it, or he will simply seek the termination of the treaty, the cancellation of the treaty, whatever you will. Why? Because the conditions of this sale, when privatising, bankruptcy or executive procedure, were quite different from those which are now determined by this Law on Planning and Construction. You are now later changing the conditions for privatisation of certain properties, for the execution of certain properties and for the properties that were subject to bankruptcy. So it's retroactively something that definitely raises questions about whether there is respect for the law in this country, whether it's a legal order or whether it's an ad hoc system. Well, Mr. Minister noticed that in the former republics of the SFRY, the right to use in the right of property was freely converted and that, to a great surprise of all, I don't know who he meant exactly, that's not the case in Serbia. Why is that not the case in Serbia? Does Serbia really think what its leaders say, that we are open to foreign investment, that we are open to economic co-operation with the whole world? If so, how can a small door be reintroduced by an instrument such as statehood? Because this way we come into a situation where many businessmen will give up on already purchased businesses and real estate because it may not be worth it if someone finds it appropriate to estimate that they bought the same for little money by buying the facility and that the land is worth a lot more. This, of course, opens up the possibility of corruption of huge proportions, as it is again giving officials the opportunity to determine the criteria and way of assessing who invested or did not invest and how much it will cost after the investment costs have been denied. I think that's inadmissible. It is unacceptable, firstly, for one such institute as property to be on bid, to be on the market for political will and to be subject to political volunteerism. It is unacceptable for private property, which is otherwise in a healthy economic world of sanctity, to be placed under question and traded with previously acquired properties, businesses, etc. I'd really like to see these situations when some trustee, who, during the execution procedure, came up with certain assets, facilities and the right to use the land on which the facility is located... And I can tell you, whenever the value of an object is estimated, it always goes in a parcel of land, with the position of that land and object. Those aren't separate categories, that's one category. That may also be confirmed by the vice-president of Mr. Novakovic's Assembly, who is also a lawyer. You can buy a scavenger in Belgrade at a very high price just because it's located where it is. The position of that strata also determines the market value of the same. Therefore, the market value, rather than the building value, is the most common subject of the purchase and therefore the conditions of business are determined. If the conditions of business were one, we can't change these business conditions after we've done the legal work. As much as we want some new methods to be introduced, we will again be an exception to all the surrounding republics, the former Republic of the SFRY. We are the ones who are going to guard the social, state or already do not know whose property just to raise that populism that is shouting – do not give, please, it is social, it is state, not below the price, not the tycoons. And interestingly, this law attacks all, both tycoons and those who protect social property, so the question arises – if this law is indeed under such an attack, how can it be that no one has yet figured out that it would eventually have to change? I would like to point out one more thing in particular, which is, if I remind you -- not only Belgrade Serbia, is not the Belgrade centre of the world, it is not Luka Belgrade's only important property and property in this country; there is still a lot of property, businesses, factories, properties that are privatised, which have been sold in the bankruptcy or executive process. So let's not focus so much. Let's get some politics out of some legal stuff. Where the right should play the most important role, where the defender should play a role, where courts should play the biggest role, politics interfere, and bid around the figures that really revolve in the head. Whether it's millions, hundreds of millions or billions, I think it's just a matter of imagination. Reality is something else entirely. So, again, what the LDP is saying is that it is inadmissible that systemic solutions (conversion of the right to use in private property is a system solution under the Law on Planning and Construction) cannot be solved in this way. This must be done by system laws, on a much higher level and much more serious. Otherwise, we come to a situation where the law is inconclusive, it opens up a lot of questions and absolutely everything is under question. And we don't have time and we can't let it stop at the first step. Because, from investment, from foreign investment, unless you have security, legal security of business, and above all legal security of private property, there's nothing. If you're being attacked by the Anti-Corruption Agency and you're being attacked by the so-called. tycoons, and if you're attacked by both public defenders and social property, what does that tell you? What does it tell you that the cost of building land in Belgrade, in times of crisis, after the adoption of this law, is at the level of prices in Dubai? Is Belgrade a better destination than Dubai? Is Belgrade a better destination than London, Paris, Barcelona or any major European city? It is simply incomprehensible that the prices of building land in Belgrade are so high. So, it's probably all the fruit and result of one bad law, this last one, since 31 August 2009, without talking about the wrong implementation of that law, of a rather strange approach and of thinking about what is wanted by that law. Apparently, he doesn't really know or hides the real truth. I think it's time we finally came up with new laws as regards public property, that the new law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights, as well as denationalisation, restitution, change the climate in this country and enables it to actually produce and invest and, therefore, make it possible for the citizens of Serbia to live a better life, rather than that it all comes down to political games and intrigues. Because the only thing this law has achieved is that intrigues have spread to the universe.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36306	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36307	I'll be real quick. I think that today we have had the opportunity to debate much less about the Law on State Prime Minister and the Cataster, and much more about the problems that we all face in society as a consequence of the adoption of reform laws. We are in the process of reform, and it is natural that many disagree with it because they are tucked up and secure in their bans, which have ruled for decades, and now the end is being seen and trying to prevent the last atoms of power from some processes that are inevitable. I've said several times today, whoever is in power, whatever happens after some next election, anyone who comes to do this job, would have to implement the same reforms that we are doing here today, and would finally have to solve what to do with the issue of the conversion of the right to use into property, what to do with the issue of hazardous waste, what to do with many other issues that we are facing today, and which are very difficult to solve. There's one thing I have to say and make it right, just because it's a wrong quote. Construction land prices in Belgrade have been high for the last five years. They have nothing to do with the Law on Planning and Construction. The Law on Planning and Construction has just, since it envisioned property over building land and has allowed millions of people to become owners of construction land, enabled the construction land market to finally live in Serbia. When the market comes to life and more land is offered than ever before, I'm sure the prices will fall as well. The very fact that this law, as you said, is being attacked by both tycoons and social capital defenders and the Anti-Corruption Council tells me that we are on a good track to finally make a standard that will introduce the necessary balance. Some are attacking him because of their interest, some because they believed in the model that you presented here, which is - so we don't get stuck in these bureaucratic gaps and allow the administration to arbitrarily decide, let's give them everything for free. So you were rooting for a free share of land. We won't allow it, and we didn't allow this law. For those who attack, I'm sure they didn't even read the norms and they didn't understand the regulations. We'll try, through practice, to show that she makes sense. This is one problem that we face when we try to discuss in public the things we have already discussed in public debates and congregation debates. So today, I have attended here a re-public debate and debate on the Law on Planning and Construction, which has been living for several months and which will implement all the standards that we have discussed here today. We'll help the construction industry this year. She's in deep crisis. The construction industry crisis began in December 2008. She has nothing to do with the Law on Planning and Construction. We plan this year to start building 500,000 square meters of living space through project financing subsidies, which will enable construction companies. I can tell you some good news. So far, a large number of banks have come forward. Next week, we'll close our contracts with the banks. As of next week, construction firms that have land with a local permit will literally start competing for these very cheap and favourable loans for project financing. According to the data we now have, over 500,000 square meters of living space has been reserved through the Chamber of Commerce. So at this point, the interest of construction companies is much greater than we have at this point to cover the cost of project financing. I hope that in one of the budget rebalances, possibly, if it really turns out that this project runs and generates the construction industry, we will provide more money for all those who want to build it. It is true that the construction industry generates significant gross national income. This year, only thanks to this measure of government, we plan to pump 'in' into the construction industry somewhere between 400m and 500m euros, which, you will admit, is a very quality project and will significantly contribute to a comprehensive economic picture. Thank you for your discussion. I apologize if I have been more extensive in explaining the policy we represent, but we are doing so with the belief that we are on a good path and that we will indeed succeed in this so unsettled area as the building and urbanism in the years ahead of us finally introduce so much of the expected order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36308	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State measure and cadastre. Based on article 85, I'm setting a one-hour break. We'll continue at 5 p.m. In the electronic system there are reports of Mr Dusan Maric and Mrs Judite Popovic, and will be the first to receive the word at 17.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36309	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Ilic, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on International Transport in the Drumsian Department (Principle Search) you have received a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate per parliamentary group is the following: Parliament group "For European Serbia" - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; MP group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group "Forward, Serbia" - 15 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS-JS - eight minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MEP group "New Serbia" - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised the MPs to represent them: Djordje Milicevic – the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Vladan Jeremic – the SRS parliamentary group, Zoran Shami – the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Mr. Dusan Maric is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36310	Ladies and gentlemen, I point to a breach of article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe Minister Oliver Dulic hurt the dignity of the National Assembly during my previous presentation. During most of my presentation on the illegal attempts by Minister Dulic and his ministry to store dangerous waste in Krnjevo near the Great Plana, even at times when I spoke to him personally and asked for answers to very important questions, the minister chatted with Mr Novakovic. I really don't think that was right. Secondly, I find it unacceptable for the MP to ask several very important health issues of more than four thousand Serbian citizens and to completely ignore these issues. In the first wave, I was in a dilemma whether Mr. Minister ignored the people of Krenjev or simply did not know what was going on in his ministry, and now I am convinced that it was both. I'm just going to give you one more very important piece of information. Minister Dulic refused to attend yesterday's session of the Environment Protection Committee. He refused to face his arguments about the warehouse in Krnjevo with the MPs, but did not miss an opportunity to address journalists in a very offensive way after leaving this room. He said, among other things, the following – the members of the opposition attended, but they are not professional enough to discuss this problem. I believe the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36311	Mrs. Judita Popovic is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a replica of Mr. Minister's presentation. It's not my custom, but I have to answer for one single reason, which is one untrue. It was said that LDP advocated that land should be granted free of charge to certain tycoons, i.e. those who acquired the property (by talking about businessmen and other legal entities) during privatisation, during bankruptcy or enforcement proceedings. The LDP never said it asked for land to be allocated free of charge. The LDP has never forced this way to address the problem of converting the right to use into property rights. We have been claiming from the beginning and in principle advocated that one law cannot have retroactive force on certain legal matters. That's one. Two, we said they couldn't change the conditions under which the properties were acquired in the earlier period. In particular, we pointed out that we oppose the fact that the conversion of the right to use in property rights is done and passed in such a law as the Law on Planning and Construction. In addition, we pointed out that if the conversion had already been decided to enter into the subject and content of this law, the precise conditions in that famous member of 103 would not produce confusion, and the minister himself said that all former republics of the SFRY had made a conversion of property rights without compensation and did not make differences between two categories of stickers, namely natural persons who owned residential buildings and apartments and legal and commercial persons who acquired property in privatisation, bankruptcy or executive proceedings. From the beginning, we argue that this is a very bad message for current and future investors, that the consequences are really very bad and that it will only show how bad it is, because property, private property, should be in the first place and be systematically protected, and not in this way, that we are constantly changing the conditions of getting the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36313	Since it was a replica, there's no comment. Does Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36314	As always, it is a special honor for me to be able to talk in this high home about amendments to the Law on International Transport in Road Traffic, precisely because I always point out that the people who ran this job and the Ministry in the previous years, now here are the MPs, whose opinion I respect and respect above all. There's only Professor now. Shami, but when I talk about this, I also think about Mr. Velje Ilic and Mr. Dragan Todorovic, who led these restaurants. Then it's easy for me to tell the other MPs what I want to say. The basic characteristic of this law is that it is time-consistent, limited in application and to some extent incompatible with the current legislation in the country, environment, EU countries and multilateral agreements that the Republic of Serbia has joined. Current changes and additions to the law are Serbia's obligations towards membership in the International Transport Forum, in which Serbia has renewed its membership since 2002. The current law, which was passed in 1998, does not know CEMT, an international multilateral license, or an individual side of a permit with which Serbian carriers carry transportation through and towards foreign countries. Also, the criminal policy of the Republic of Serbia towards foreign transporters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is far easier than the criminal policy of foreign countries through which Serbian carriers move, which brings them into an unequal position on the international transport market. These amendments and additions to the law meet the demands of Serbian carriers towards a balanced and reciprocal criminal policy vis-à-vis foreign carriers. Serbia today has a small number of CEMT permits for 2010. Only 941 permits were obtained from the International Transport Forum. This number is far from the needs of Serbian carriers. With that number of CEMT permits, Serbian carriers are unable to transport all goods that appear on the Serbian transport market. On the Serbian transport market, foreign carriers, i.e. transporters from the region, who are not competing with Serbian carriers, appear at neither the price nor the quality of transport, but have sufficient permits for international transport of things. As I have already said, all amendments and additions to the laws are due to the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia under the International Transport Agreement and are therefore adopted by an urgent procedure. The Ministry of Infrastructure, in co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and Associations of Transport, will prepare by the end of the year a whole new law on the transport of goods and the law on the transport of passengers in international road transport. The new laws will, above all, regulate the changes that took place on the international and domestic transport markets from 1998 to today. I'm going to make an example of just one fundamental change. At the time of the adoption of the basic law in 1998, most of the companies in the international transport of passengers and things were in social property. Today, all companies are also in the transport of passengers and things in private property, and the country's most successful privatisation has been carried out in international transport. The proposed changes and additions to the Law on International Transport in Road Transport will create a basis for Serbia's more successful diplomatic fight for a number of international multilateral licenses, enabling Serbian carriers to be more equal in the international transport market. The Ministry of Infrastructure suggests that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt a law amending and supplementing the Law on International Transport in Road Traffic, in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36315	Do the committee's reporters want a word? Mr. Ilic is not here. Does Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Transport and Connection Committee, want a word? He's not here. () Which one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, wants a word? Mr. Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36316	Dear Madam Chairman, I would like to say at the very beginning that the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. For us, the reasons set out in this legislative proposal are fully acceptable. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on International Transport in Road Transport will support the SPS-JS Parliament Club, once again clearly and precisely, for the reasons given in this legislative proposal. This, first of all, is seen as an alignment, as is said in the opening presentation of the minister, with the regulations of the International Transport Forum, whose Serbia is a member, and the equalisation of domestic and foreign carriers in international road transport and, on the other hand, we must note, the tightening of criminal policy, primarily for foreign carriers in Serbia. The bill, as has been established, for the first time defines the CEMTvol, an international multilateral transport permit for things issued by the International Transport Forum, but also an individual licence, issued under the international agreement between our country and foreign countries, which can take up a maximum of two rides. The International Transport Forum approved 940 CEMT permits for Serbia for 2010, which does not meet even 10% of the carrier's needs. Serbian carriers usually drive things, and thus need the highest number of individual permits, primarily in Hungary, Italy, Austria, Russia, etc. The annual contingent of Italian bilateral permits is about 9,000, Russian only 3,000. Transit to Serbian carriers through Austria, especially through Hungary, is strictly limited. Some countries have allowed full liberalisation of relations in international road transport, so the movement of vehicles without authorisation, such as Slovenia, BiH, Montenegro, and others there is an agreement that the number of licences is exchanged in sufficient numbers for carriers – Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania. I would also like to highlight the most important agreement with Belgium, which the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia signed on a recent visit to Belgium. An insufficient number of international CEMT licenses, namely individual permits with, as I said, Italy, Austria, Hungary and Russia, is a kind of sanctions and a serious restriction on access to the European transport market when it comes to Serbian carriers. With the same intensity that the Serbian government has fought for years to lift visas for Serbian citizens, I am convinced that this must also be advocated for increasing the number of permits to Serbian carriers and full liberalisation in international road transport. In international road transport, I would like to point out in particular, and this is generally known, Serbian carriers are real leaders in the region, both by the number and quality of the vehicle and by the quality and safety of the services they provide. Therefore, they really need state support, and I expect and I am convinced that it will not be left behind, that in the free market services show their advantages when it comes to regional transport. This bill tightens criminal policy, as I said, according to foreign transporters driving through Serbia, i.e. a reciprocal criminal policy is being introduced towards foreign carriers, i.e. reciprocity measures. So far, foreign countries have said uncomparably stricter measures towards Serbian carriers than Serbian state authorities could towards foreign carriers, i.e. to a foreign carrier. The SPS-JS parliamentary group believes that the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law that is before us today is the first and, I would say, an urgent step in regulating the relationship in the transport of passengers and the transport of things in international traffic and that a whole new law should follow, as the minister said, or a new law on the transport of things in international traffic. The reasons for the law show that the current law, which the minister pointed out very precisely in the opening statement, was brought only in 1998, at a time when social property was dominated in this area. Today, all companies in the international transport of passengers and things are mostly private. The law has a number of forms of protection for companies in social property, such as very strict protection times in the transport of passengers, and in the free market and in the private initiative for this, there is simply no need. The SPS-JS parliamentary group supports, I would like to say once again, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on International Transport in Road Transport and advocates that a whole new law be drawn up, which will be in line with the requirements of the international transport market, but also with the modern needs of Serbian carriers and service users in international traffic. At the very end of this presentation, we want to make certain suggestions and suggestions for thinking to the competent ministry. This is an article of the 7th of these amendments and the addition of the law, i.e. a proposal relating to the addition of Article 13a after Article 13. and 13b. Article 13a. refers to the submission of an expert examination in respect of the Director or other responsible person of the transport undertaking, and Article 13b. refers to mandatory training. We're making a suggestion for thinking that, when it comes to Article 13a, a change is being made to Article 13a. enable the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, to prescribe conditions for the release of the expert examination, or part of an expert examination, bearing in mind the fact that, for example, in some companies there are directors who have 20 and more years of professional work in this area, i.e. in traffic. It's just that we don't think it would be logical for them to pass an expert exam, which is, we don't want to underestimate, but something lower than what they already possess. When it comes to Article 13b, this is another proposal for reflection, it is envisaged that all before passing an expert examination have compulsory professional training. It's okay that there is an expert exam, but we think that training may not be mandatory, but optional, so that everyone who has an obligation to pass the exam will have the opportunity to declare whether or not they will attend that training. Finally, in addition to these proposals for reflection, we clearly and precisely point out that the SPS-JS MP club in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36317	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36318	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, Mr Minister, allow me, before I move on to the principle story of the law itself, to say a few things about the whole area. If there is an area for which the state of Serbia should be very interested, it is, in my deep conviction, traffic. I don't want to lecture on this right now, but it's quite clear that traffic is one of those branches of economy where the state of Serbia has a real chance of taking advantage of, above all, its geographical position, and then some of the other advantages it has in the area. In doing so, when I say traffic, I mean not only road traffic, although this is road transport, but I mean all kinds of traffic -- both air and river and rail and road traffic, so, if you want, PTT traffic. Many in the public over the past months and years have been told about a part of the traffic problem, which is the construction of a traffic station. Whether it's highways, railways, waterway clearing, etc. again, it's traffic problems and they're not on the agenda today. But there's another kind of problem, and that's a transport problem. Transport again, both road and rail and everyone else. Now I'm going to say something that we don't normally think about, but there's one important difference between these two kinds of problems and we need to understand it. If it is traffic, then the interest of our country coincides with the interest of the countries not only in the environment and not only in the EU, but in Europe at all. And they have as much interest as we do, that we build cars, renovate railways, build highways, train waterways, airports, etc. However, when it comes to means of transport, these interests are no longer the same. Everyone around us, if you want in Europe, has an interest in us having no means of transport at all. I don't caricate anything. What's the interest of some foreign country that we have a railroad? They don't have any interest. We can put her out of business right now. They're interested in the railroad. They're not interested in passenger or freight trains, or these trucks we're talking about now, or road transport. If we don't have road transporters, great, they've got them, they're gonna do jobs, and they're gonna make money. Of course we're very interested in having it all and of course we're very interested in having a completely regulated area. We're interested for a number of reasons. First of all, the money our carriers make doesn't matter if it's owned by the state, like. Railway (I would not agree if we did not have state property; on the contrary, Railway is state property), or they are mostly privately owned as small transporters if it is road traffic. So we have an interest in developing this, because the money that's being earned stays in the state. To the side that we collect, of course, from tax transporters and everything else and it is certainly much cheaper for our or other goods to be transported by our people and that the money that remains in the state of Serbia and not by foreign transporters. It's just like that. When I say this, I have no bad intentions. Our carriers, no matter what kind of transport they are, must go out to the European market and swim in it as much as they swim. It's up to us to prescribe the rules of the game and it's the subject of this law. It's one of the areas that should be taken seriously. It's not all about Corridor 10, it's not all about roads, stripes, etc., it's something about transportation. And this is one serious area, which should be arranged not only to, of course, implement all necessary modernisations and alignments with our environment related to CEMT permits and everything else, but also because it is one area in which I think there is a lot that could be arranged and arranged. If it's about this law, he's correct, but I have two objections. One of them was spoken of in his own way by Mr. Milicevic, and the other is an observation about what is not in this law, and I believe it should be. In part, because of the situation in which our country was in the 1990s, various political and economic blockades that we were exposed to, the real eldorado ruled in the field of licensing. At one point I was the minister of traffic in the federal government, whose jurisdiction it was then, and that's known in the fall of 2000, and I have to admit that I've found a situation that I think is bribery and corruption is a mild word. That looked a lot worse. The permits were literally bought, at the time for German stamps. I've tried to prevent it in a certain way. Unfortunately, I haven't been a minister in a long time, and I have to admit I haven't finished my job. Later, the job became the responsibility of the Republic Ministry of Transport. I have to admit, I'm not thrilled with Mrs. Rushette's results at that point in that field, and I'm afraid there's still something in that area. When I say this, I have nothing in mind, or the current minister or the current government, these jobs are done by some officials, but the law has to be such that all such attempts are impossible. I haven't found in this law some finer game rules that would make it impossible and that's some principled remark that can't be removed by amendments. Secondly, I have to admit that article 7 is completely incomprehensible to me. Personally, I think Article 7 or two of the new members, 13a and 13b, should be deleted. I didn't want to put an amendment on that member for the simple reason that I assume that if the government wrote it, or if the ministry wrote it, it stands behind it and it won't do it, but I don't think that member should exist at all. In fact, what Mr. Milicevic said is true. If it's road traffic, it's still a large part of the private carriers that have 1, 2, 3 trucks, and there are certainly bigger ones now. Why would we ask these people, first of all, to be granted some special licenses, and secondly, to take some exams? Look, somebody comes over here and buys a huge factory for 100 million euros. Are we asking him to pass the exam? If I bought three trucks and I want to take a ride, so at my own risk, I guess I have some skills to do that. If I don't, I'll fail. Of course, I'm not talking about traffic safety regulations and everything else that needs to be fulfilled. That's what the law says, so it has to. So there's no exam to pass. And even less, why would you ask someone you said in your previous article to be educated to go to some training at a Pera or a Wicca or Mike? To tell you the truth, I didn't want to write the amendment, but I'm seriously asking Mr. Secretary to consider and simply delete Article 7. I think it's completely unnecessary and I don't see the point. I've had some other minor objections to the text of the law, but we'll discuss them when we discuss the details. These are not big things, these are some details, and I believe that the legislator will hear about these amendments as well as the unquestionably well-intentioned amendments of all my colleagues in this House. Namely, I will remind Mr. Minister, he once said in a media performance, which I had the opportunity to see, that traffic is so important to Serbia, that it exceeds the duration of one government and one minister. I'll tell you what, I'll sign what Mr. Secretary said. This is about one, let's say, collective state profit, one big state business. Of course, today is the minister one, tomorrow there will be a second, the day after tomorrow the third, and the jobs are of such nature that they certainly can't be done in two, three, five days or a year, and I believe a lot of things should be done, and I believe we'll be so smart that in some future period we do so. Again, my general remark is that there have been other fine controls that have been introduced regarding the issue of permits, so that every thought of manipulation, thieving, or call it whatever you want. It's not immune to other countries either. From what I read, there was a huge scandal in Bosnia and I think there was a big scandal in Croatia, etc. There's a scandal in that area all you want. Unfortunately, it's irreparable to the amendments, so maybe you should just consider getting it out by the end. My unofficial amendment is for the minister to consider simply erasing Article 7 because I think it is completely unnecessary. If you want, you will, and if you won't, as you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36319	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36320	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever we face changes or additions to certain legal solutions lately, we do it mostly for two reasons. It is either necessary to bring them in line with international legal regulation or EU legislation, or, as is equally a major problem, it is about laws that have shown their inapplicability in practice so far. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport, it seems that we have succeeded both of these facts to sublime, because, as Mr Minister said, it is obvious that both the conditions and methods of carrying out international transport in road transport in the EU and the Member States of the International Transport Forum have changed significantly. Also, such a bill today in front of MPs in the republic's parliament should rightly address all the shortcomings and irregularities seen in relation to the still existing Law on international transport in road transport, which we heard was first brought to us in 1998, and then, on three occasions, experienced only minor or cosmetic changes and additions, so that the government was forced to pass a new law on amendments and additions to the existing Law on International Transport in Road Transport. The unquestionable fact is that the legal regulation of road transport is precisely based on multilateral conventions and agreements that are mainly prepared at UN and CMT levels, then bilateral agreements between governments and national legislation, which is clearly what we are working towards more or less successfully. So these are issues that are just about to cover this legal framework and issues that are just being resolved in this way, concerning various conditions for the establishment and execution of international liner transport of passengers, conditions for the transport of goods in the authorisation regime and the regime without authorisation. What has proved to be an obvious problem is the establishment of contingents and the type of licences for the transport of goods, the period of validity, the way they are used, etc., the way in which special modes of transport are carried out, which is also of exceptional importance, the transport of dangerous goods, and, of course, all of which should be added to other important factors, such as customs, border, sanitary, veterinary and other rules and, of course, this law is not immune to that, and these are aspects concerning sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of such agreements. Compared to all these contracts concluded, it can be observed that fewer or more of these solutions are quite similar, but what arises as a certain type of problem is that there are differences primarily in the scope of acceptance of the level of liberalisation of road traffic, fiscal solutions, road charges, license fees, determination of the degree of application of licenses and contingents of permits and, most often, in most cases, solutions are applied based on this so-called. Reciprocity, i.e. on the principle of ensuring the same conditions and benefits for the carriers of both Contracting Parties. I would like this opportunity to point out that the overall development of this transport system, if we can say so, is taking place with one dynamic that can imply different problems and in some way create an obstacle to certain economic development and economic growth of each country, and is precisely, in response to all these changes that have arisen, and with the aim of creating a sustainable system, introducing certain technological innovations and actually imposing the need to "take steps" with all these international standards. However, in the current and current bill, one of the consequences I would like to point out to this opportunity is the fact that, in some ways, quality and proper work are disabled primarily by inspection authorities and the implementation of those measures that can be taken in the event of a breach of the law. I think that, in the area of criminal provisions, the penalties were indeed inappropriate and that, among other things and for this reason, it cannot be properly controlled by the appearance and grey economy, not only in this fiscal sense, but also in terms of service levels, incorrect use of licences, which has already been and will only be said, as well as driving orders. In this sense, it is also said that some unfair competition that is in the government and it is evident that education and the law that would absolutely allow everyone to work on equal terms are needed. Otherwise, it is clear that it is necessary to find both ways and mechanisms to achieve a certain profit, and the fact is that domestic carriers are also faced with reduced mobility of the population, that the reason for all of this and their assessment is not only the current global economic crisis, but in some way also the alienation of the diaspora, since international line traffic and started precisely because of the link between diaspora and the queen. So, if the fact that it is necessary to respect certain international conventions is accepted, I think I am apostrophe of the most important, the one concerning the transit system, so-called. The TIR, which was otherwise established more than half a century ago in Geneva and has been complemented and modified, is clear that the state of Serbia must respect absolutely all the principles that are represented in the TIR system. For this reason, even if, at first sight, it may be possible to make it possible for passengers to be engaged, in this case I speak from our country abroad, to have only a bus, it is clear that all those involved in this business, so the companies, have to meet a whole series of conditions and to obtain for all these documents, and only when all that is prescribed by the legal provisions is fulfilled and in some way valorises them with adequate papers, only then can carriers get the necessary permits to enter foreign countries. These permits, probably most colleagues, are known, are obtained from the authorities, so in the Department of International Transport at the Ministry of Capital Investments, and these are, in fact, the permits issued by the countries in which the transport is carried out. By length and some time limit, or by the time it takes to finish this job, I think it's just the fate of everyone else in this area. Each country, namely Serbia, which wants to have absolute control over the transport carried out on its territory, must try to put its interests in the first place, and I think it is necessary for it to be issued mainly on the basis of reciprocity or, roughly speaking, as many permits for foreign countries as we give permission to foreigners to drive through our country. In establishing these international lines, what we need is for our carrier to work with the company from the country he's driving to and practically share the business on that line. It's mostly the same part, although it's not always mandatory. When it comes to the types of permits, a document allowing the country to carry our carrier on its territory, in all countries, is mandatory for this line of transport, while in the case of non-linear transport this depends mainly on the type of transport and land. Basically, there are these two types of permits – bilateral and transit permits. What does that have to mean? In any case, the permits should clearly define what the carrier can do, i.e. Which route can move, where cells can be stopped, in which order of driving and the like. International transport, therefore, can be dealt with exclusively by those companies which are registered for this purpose, and in order for a company to obtain an international transport licence, it is necessary to meet the conditions necessary for the acquisition and assurance of the ability to carry out international transport in road transport and all other mentioned conditions, including, as one of the crucial, sufficient number of vehicles, which are clearly covered by the director of the undertaking's statement. When I mentioned the director of the company, we in the SRS had one amendment concerning, above all, the professional arrangement of the person who has called the director and we felt that, because of all the potential difficulties and problems that could arise in this sphere, it was necessary for the Director, as the most responsible person, to have an exclusively high professional arrangement of adequate direction. However, the legal solution allowed it to not be so. There's probably a reason for that, and probably one of the representatives of the Ministry, Mr. Minister or his associate, will explain why it doesn't matter that much. On this occasion, I would also like to highlight the fact that there are no specific or specific conditions related to this ecological side, so to environmental similarity. It is very well known, if we are already calling for criteria that are in force in EU countries, how much environmental concerns are being taken into account. Our legal regulations generally mention these requirements without any more general details, which in translation may mean that in practice they are not so important, or that, regardless of the specific requirements for meeting these so-called so-called requirements. Euronorms, the big question is whether our carriers will be able to make certain drivings in EU countries at all. Experts have also assessed the high risk of road crash. This is, in a way, indirectly, related to this proposal of the Law on Change and Supplements and something which is rather a subject to processing and in the course of the recent adoption of the Transport Safety Act. I think there is a priority problem in terms of the state of the travel network in Serbia, because the analysis has shown that road crashes are even 100 times higher on roadsides compared to all other traffic types. I think that, in that sense, even though this law is seemingly not directly related to it, it would have to be accounted for, because almost 90% of the journey takes place in Serbia on August and we are aware of the consequences we can face. It is also evident that the effects of the global economic crisis have been practically felt among the first by carriers engaged in international goods transport, as it is the fact that the volume of trade has been reduced, and apart from difficulties related to payment and payment of debt, domestic carriers are also faced with rigorous controls by foreign authorities and limited vehicle contingents. It is also interesting to note that, as they point out at the International Transport Business Association, until we become a member of the EU, the system of permits will likely exist, but that the criteria have been allocated to the region more objectively. Professional capacity and technical equipment for the operation of the transport of goods are the conditions which each will have to meet if they want to start international transport properly. We have already heard that, when it comes to dynamic changes in the conditions of business and market characteristics, a particular problem is a discrepancy between external trade exchange and increasing annual contingents, i.e. in the folk dictionary, a lack of licenses in an increasing number of contingents, which causes a constant review of the solution applied to both the criteria and their quantifiers, as well as the method of distribution. This is how those mentioned bilateral agreements mentioned earlier and address the demands and needs of the states. One of the most dramatic examples I have faced is a contingent of bilateral licenses exchanged with Italy, which has been at 9,000 permits since 2002. The contingent of Hungarian permits is also far from satisfactory, and with England there is no agreement, although our carriers carry a lot and work on the island. When it comes to CEMT quotas, we do not have a major impact, because the base quota is determined on the basis of just mentioned economic indicators, and 3% of the contingents of individual intervention permits, transports for which special permits and transportation are required for their own purposes. However much, Mr. Minister, to amend and supplement the proposed law in some way, the existing legal solution remains the problem of its application in practice. I think, as for everyone else, so will the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport, the absolute greatest responsibility for applying will be the Government, or the Ministry of which you are headed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36321	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS and DSS parliamentary groups. I give my word to the MP, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering amendments to the Law on International Transport in Road Traffic. Since it is a very important and important law, I think it might be more comprehensive if it had been approached by the adoption of a whole new law. In fact, the reason for this law is also said that many circumstances have changed compared to a period of ten years and years ago. The basic text of this law was passed in 1998 and then three amendments and additions to this law were made. So we in the SRS think it was necessary to pass a whole new law on international transport in road transport. This law, as you say, wants first of all to improve the unfavourable position of domestics in relation to foreign carriers. I have to say, I'd really like it to be that way. I'm not sure the main and responsible motive of this law is that. Why am I not sure? First of all, as the law itself examines, the basic motive of its adoption was something else. What was that? As with all similar laws, the most important thing here is to establish new violations and increase the range of fines. You did the same thing in the Traffic Safety Act. In addition to these things, this law also imposes excessive administration in the performance of operations, and not only those structures that make up logistics in transport, but it also imposes additional administrations on direct enforcement of transport, drivers themselves, so that they, in addition to their basic function, are responsible for the safety of the vehicle on the roads, must also take care of new administrative things that draw them away from their basic function. Some members of the law predict the wrong order of filling out individual forms. We have such a case in Article 1 of this law, where it says that the passport is signed, certified and concluded before the bus is set up for boarding passengers at the starting point. Of course, I'm talking about transporting passengers, not transporting goods. However, we know from experience that it is very often that any of the passengers reported at the last minute give up their journey or simply does not show up. Also, experience tells us that, let's say, a passenger who comes from a different place than where the starting point is, can be late for legitimate reasons, and in the meantime, he announces his arrival to the road leader or the people in charge of it. We also know that vanilla departures are very often organised in terms that are immediately before midnight and then these, justified or unwarranted, delays can lead to the departure of date shifts by one day. Let's say, if the bus was to leave at half past noon, and the delay is just over half an hour, it's already in the next day, and then it's automatically causing problems in that administrative sense. In this regard, I have submitted an amendment and I hope that the representatives of the Government and the Ministry here will consider this amendment of mine and adopt it. Furthermore, in Article 3 of this Act, too much attention is paid to the so-called “. ” The travel log. Among other things, it is said that the travel log is filled in in a clear, chronological order for every ride and every part of the journey. As far as I know, passengers and goods are being transported, and the road is crossing, so I don't think this termologically is right. It's not supposed to be a road trip, it's a road trip. It's not the only lack of this member. Let it be a road ride, but I ask the representatives of the promoter here - what is meant by the term "every part of the road transported"? Does this mean that if goods or passengers, for example, are transported from Prepolje to Warsaw, the individual distances between all the places they pass through represent parts of the road transported? If that's the case, and I can't really see from the law if it is, if the driver and about our country can know all these places and distances, in foreign countries they'll certainly have trouble dealing with the names of the place, their distances and everything else. If it stays this way, to put it all in the travel log, it should be kept in each place to get to know which place it is, especially when it comes to small places and relationships it first passes by. Of course you can't do it differently than stop your vehicle. I believe that only the starting destination should be entered into the travel log, all the border crossings that cross over and, of course, the final destination. Article 4 provides for the issue of travel lists with passenger lists to be kept for two years, counting from the day of their completion. I have no idea why these lists of passengers transported to a designated destination must be kept for two years. We know that at least now, all travellers abroad own, and that's a condition to travel there, biometric passports. When they arrive at the border crossing, at each border crossing, there are electronic book-readers on the passport, automatically scan and download all passenger data, it is stored in the computer database and thus provided. If someone is interested in this information, they're certainly not the subject of passenger transportation. The most important thing for him is for these passengers to be safely transported to the desired place and, of course, the bus to be full, so that it has an economic calculation. These data may be interesting to the MUP, but the MUP is in charge of border crossings anyway. That's where their people are, and they do these jobs, and they can get the data from those computers, that is, from that database at the border crossings. So, simply, this should be avoided. Furthermore, Article 5 states that it prohibits a domestic and foreign carrier from carrying out an international public line or out-of-line transport of passengers by other vehicles than by bus. I don't think such a provision should stand in this law. Practically, we are depriving someone who may not be able to get a bus, who wants to deal with this transport, the right to do his job. Of course, we know that the current economic crisis, we know that buses are mostly half empty, and I think we should let the vans run that liner. For example, I come from Nis, we know that Sofia is closer to Nis than it is to Belgrade, but we are not taking that example. Why, say, don't let the owners of the van or the minibus drive passengers from Capac to Bijeljina or Loznica to Zvornik, where's the distance a little? Article 6 provides for conditions for the professional training of the director or responsible person, and Article 7 provides for the education of the committee for the submission of the expert examination and the programme of the examination. Here again it is seen that it is an additional administration, from which it will not benefit those to whom this is intended. On the contrary, they shall have nothing but harm, and those who organize and carry out the tests shall benefit. Because we know that these exams and what they cost, and these people in their alleged education are not going to learn anything. You had something similar in your proposal for a traffic safety law, but although the law has long been passed, no specific sublaws following the law have been passed yet. We see that passing driver's exams and getting a driver's license is still done in the old procedure, simply because you're passing laws that can't really be applied. Some of my colleagues here were talking about the so-called. an annual contingent of permits. Let me just say something about it. The law states that these permits are granted once a year. I don't understand why it's limited to one year. It is necessary to find the possibility to be more than once, at least twice a year, because someone who, for example, founded a transport company just ten days from the time when they were issued those permits, needs to wait for a full year to realize their performance. Does anyone have that much money to invest and then a year be his dead capital? Of course, you know that people, if they invest their money in achieving transport, they usually do it before the tourist season, when the passenger frequency is the largest. With this restriction that permits are granted only once a year, it can practically fail the entire tourist season and, bad, the money cannot recover. Furthermore, the law provides for a deadline in which regulations are to be laid down, but I don't think this item will be respected, as it has been in many other laws. In the end, to conclude, when you state the reason for this law, you say you are doing it primarily because you want to avoid domestic carriers being in a position of subjugation to the side. If that's true, then why don't you cut the fuel price, because we know that the fuel price is the largest of all earths in our environment? Just by reducing the fuel price, you'd be helping domestic carriers. Based on everything that's been said so far, there is the impression that this law, as well as the Transport Safety Act, has been brought first and foremost for reasons to increase penalties and thus fill the budget. Once again, it reaches for that proven asset – it's the easiest thing to hit a driver in the pocket. It's just that the driver's got nowhere else to go. He can add gas, but he can't escape from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36323	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36324	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as international transport in road traffic is concerned, you have so far had countless examples of which were suffered by Serbian carriers, but also by the state register. Serbia, as a transit country at a crossroads between Europe and Asia, can certainly make better use of the resources that give it exactly this geostrategic position. However, in the previous period, a large number of domestic carriers were not able to deal with international transport because of the way and criteria for issuing licences. It has even happened that our carriers with full helmets of agricultural products, fruits and vegetables are waiting for permits, however, not for those concerning the quality and regularity of the goods, but for those that will enable the work of the domestic carrier. Now the promoter is changing exactly Article 3, which refers to the way in which certain categories of permits are obtained, and we hope that the practice so far will change. In the context of Article 1 of these amendments and additions, I would like to comment on paragraph 30, which refers to the passport. The MP Nikola Savic also spoke about it earlier. The passport shall be a document containing, in addition to the driver’s information and the correctness of the vehicle, a list of passengers as a contribution. You predicted that the passport would be completed before the bus was set up to board the passenger. The question is, how do you do it, given that it is possible for any of the passengers who have scheduled and paid for the ride simply not to show up at the scheduled time to leave. What's the carrier supposed to do then? Even if we take into account Article 20 of this amendment and supplement law, where in point 1b, in the section that speaks of fines, the carrier will be fined with 250,000 dinars if the data are entered into the passport with the passenger list crossed or corrected. Also, in the same article, point 1a writes – the carrier is conditioned to enter data in the travel document with the list of passengers by typewriter or computer printer. How it is possible to implement it is difficult to imagine because you place carriers and drivers in the position of an infallible person through such a legal provision. In light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said that the aim is to comply with the applicable EU rules, then to introduce order on the traffic market for international transport and the provision of cellular services in carrying out that transport. The real question would be – when, above all, will the road infrastructure in Serbia, with the failed August, the fallen bridges, the impact holes, without adequate signalling, adapt to the EU road infrastructure? For these six years, as far as I am in parliament, I have witnessed that the National Assembly has adopted dozens and dozens of government proposals to provide guarantees for loans, which Serbia and public enterprises dealing with low construction and roads are in charge of building road infrastructure. The last loan was for Gazela. However, huge money has been spent, and international traffic stations are in very poor shape. It's only enough to cross the highway along Serbia to make sure of it. We've had a lot of cases of clean discrimination against our carriers from neighbouring states. However, the state reacted, but with delay. In the future, for any unwarranted bullying and whaling of our carriers, reciprocal measures should be applied immediately by the competent authorities of certain foreign countries. I will give you an example from a few years ago, when we found ourselves in a dispute between our and Croatian carriers who worked on the transport of sugar tail from Vojvodina for sugars in Croatia. Croatian carriers entered Serbia without a problem, loaded sugar tails and drove for Croatian sugars, while Serbian carriers with loaded trucks waited at the border for Croats to have mercy on them. Only at the end of the campaign, when most sugar tails were transported, did our organs remember to bring reciprocal measures. There must have been a lot of examples like this in Serbia, and it just shows that, I would say, it was certainly not, protecting the rights of domestic carriers. The new members 6b and 6v predict that a domestic and foreign carrier can carry out international direct or extra-line passenger transport only by bus. This will, above all, mean the end for a large number of our people who have made income for themselves and their family. Take, for example, the lines that worked in the border belt, such as Nis to Bulgaria, Zaječar to Bulgaria, then Banat to Romania and Hungary, according to Republika Srpska, Montenegro, Macedonia, etc. These short international lines would work much easier if so-called. A van or minibuses could still do their job. This is how it applies only to buses, and it is certain that citizens will only have damage. The transport of passengers in smaller vehicles characterized rentability, as they are always 100% filled, while the case of buses is different, so the interest of the carrier will be lower. In Article 19, point 15, a mistake is likely to be undermined, as it is said: "if an international public transport of passengers without an international public transport licence issued", I underline this, "the federal authority responsible for traffic operations". The SRS intervened with the amendment precisely because of this provision "the federal authority", because something like this no longer exists in Serbia, unless someone deliberately ran out, given the plans of individual political actors in Serbia's future regionalisation. On this occasion, I would point out an example that is likely to conflict with certain laws in the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the transport of goods and raw materials to the Republic of Serbia by Shipara from the KIM territory. For many years already mentioned carriers, crossing the administrative border of AP KiM, in the first city in central Serbia (for example, Prokuplje and Vranje) take test tables and with such tables (I would say - glued cardboard) cruisers to Serbian roadsides. In particular, the most of them come to a cement pop-up factory, where they charge goods first, while our carriers can only watch what happens on the side. Then they return to KiM, throw on the border test tables that are dedicated and time-limited, place some of their own and continue the path. That's how it happens for days and months and years. Now I ask, and I would like to get an answer – with which travel documents are traveling by these drivers, with which ID cards, with which driving and traffic permits, whose memos are on these permits and travel documents and whose stamps? Also, I am interested in how such carriers make up for the use of Serbian roads, since they register in KIM territory and that money goes to illegal Shiptar institutions. In Serbia, they can harm citizens, their property, they can endanger someone's life and simply disappear with these cardboard plates. Not to mention the daily use of August vehicles that weigh more than 50 tons. I repeat, it happens from day to day. If I didn't say what would happen in the opposite situation, if it were our transporters carrying goods on AP Kim territory. This turns out to be like if one of us went to, say, Kovina, then stopped by the police station, took a test plate, drove to Somboro, got to Capca, threw those test tables, back the old ones, etc. What would that look like? The answer to this question, next to Mr. Minister, may be more detailed and concrete from the representative of the MUP, but if he can answer, he is not burned to hear any explanation. The question now is how will this law, I repeat, be treated by the Cypriots with KIM carrying goods with KIM via Serbia to the EU or another country. Under whose laws will they complete all legal affairs regarding international transport? Our country should maintain its integrity and reputation and not allow such persons to transit through Serbia. For Serbia, everything bearing the seal of the state authorities of Serbia or the Umnik organ, the UN, is legal if it comes from KIM territory. Otherwise, the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia is undermined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36325	Thank you. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36326	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and citizens of Serbia, traffic is of paramount importance for the development of each country, because without well-developed traffic, there are no conditions for the progress of the state, the minority in any segment. The travel network is something important for the development of municipalities, cities, regions and the entire state. Without good traffic infrastructure, it's hard to develop anything. There can be no industry, no agriculture, no tourism, no anything else. Who will come to you as a tourist if you do not have suitable roads, if you can not quickly, efficiently and comfortably reach the destination where he intended to stay, whether they are spas, mountains, lakes or other tourist destinations? If the road to these places is bad, if it travels long because of numerous curves, the poor condition of the road itself, if because of these things the average speed of driving is extremely low, it will certainly turn many tourists away from coming to our country. It will also deter domestic tourists when it comes to visiting or staying in certain tourist resorts. These conditions also depend on the development of transit tourism. Our country doesn't care enough when it comes to this form of tourism. It's underdeveloped, and that's why we don't have much profit from it. Transit traffic cannot be developed without good highways, without good highways, as well as without well-lit and, above all, safe roads. In addition, adequate accommodation for rest must be offered, along with a suitable and safe parking space, along with the relevant facilities necessary for the strengthening and refreshment of passengers passing through our country. What can attract or reject someone to go through our country or come into it are certain types of permits. Those that are valid in other countries should be recognized and applied to us. There is no dilemma, because their non-acceptance would certainly deter some from intending to travel through Serbia. Penalties should also be in agreement with those in other countries. If someone who has committed, accidentally or intentionally, some traffic violation should pay an extremely high price or has to go to a judge for violations, and in other countries it's significantly easier, it's normal to refuse a large number of passengers to go through our country. Also, what is important for the traffic itself is the guidance itself, because drivers must be easily able to manage, that even those who come to us for the first time do not have a problem with orientation, that they feel safe when it comes to where certain routes are going. We aim to attract as many foreign passengers as possible, as foreign carriers can make a certain profit. What is also important, domestic transport operators carrying out international transport operations in road transport must have a level playing field in relation to foreign carriers so as not to come into a situation to lose their jobs because of their unfavourable position. We must minimise illegal international transport in road traffic in the coming period and increase domestic transport capacity. This law requires getting and validating more permits. Now I'm just gonna name some. It is a permit for the international transport of passengers or things, an individual permit for the transport of things, a document on the basis of which a domestic or foreign carrier can carry out a maximum of two driving, a time permit for the transport of things, or a document on which a domestic or foreign carrier can carry out an unlimited number of driving during a certain period, a special permit allowing for the one-time operation of bilateral or transit transport of things, a short-term, or an annual permit, a travel log, a travel order, a passport, a driver's licence, etc. What can be a problem is the way they are obtained, or whether the law is respected when it comes to publishing them. We can have a good law, but if it's not implemented, if it's not implemented, then we have absolutely no use for it. So, in addition to adopting the law, it is far more important whether it is applied or respected, so it is extremely important to control its implementation in practice. We have more examples of how and what was done in our country. I will remind only the citizens of Serbia of the "Drum Mafia" affair. Participants have been convicted of taking in toll money, damageing our country by six and a half million euros. Of the 50 defendants, 41 people were sentenced to prison sentences. The highest sentence, since six years in prison, has been given Milan Jovetic from the IA's "Serbian Ways". He organised a group that issued double-cards to collect tolls to foreign booters. For these vehicles, the toll was the highest, about 6,500 dinars and then about 100 euros. The system was such that two cards with the same serial number were printed, one of which was not recorded in official documents with the help of an illegal computer program. According to the verdict, the convicted have been found to have damaged Serbia's Roads by more than 85m dinars. According to Judge Vladimir Vucinic, the chief organisers of the so-called Judge Vladimir Vucinic, the President of the Judiciary Council. The Road Mafia stayed out of the reach of justice. According to the defendants, the court found that there were main organisers, leaving 40% of the total amount of money. However, their identity has remained a secret until today. Otherwise, at least half of the 41 people found guilty will soon be able to get out of prison and, as Judge Vukinic explained, because they were also sentenced to a period of time spent in a prison of investigation, at least half of them will get a legal condition to request parole. These things are destroying our country, harming society as a whole, and costing the citizens of Serbia the most. Finally, once again, let me point out the exceptional importance of controlling the implementation of these laws and other laws, that members of these laws are respected, because otherwise nothing means this debate or the adoption of the amendments itself and the addition of the law unless we follow what is written in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36327	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear neighbor Mrkonjic, before I tell you any analysis of the law itself, I need to remind you of the abuses during the award of CEMT permits that were in force, and what we need to prevent, from being any further. They were never published as the final rankings, they were never known why such decisions on divisions were made. Members of the CEMT commission have made one preamble that their decision is final and that it cannot be changed. Apparently, the licenses were given to those who gave more money and bribes. There were objections and dissatisfaction. There was a problem. Some associations intervened and five or six forged permits were discovered. In order to obtain benefits for road transporters, this type of corruption has become increasingly common. A decision has been taken to grant CEMT licences to 247 legal entities, of which 128 do not fulfil the necessary legal obligations (i.e. 2009). In order to correct the unfair distribution of permits for international transport of CEMT goods, the law needed to enter the assembly procedure much earlier. But he did not prevent what was practice, which is, for example, something that was being run through in the media, which is war for international licenses. Every time before the end of the year in the premises of the Ministry of Infrastructure in New Belgrade, the atmosphere is warmed up. I feel pressure like they're on the lottery – every fifth gets. After the eighth draw, the truckers re-locked and many of them formed long columns of trucks from Mercator to Belgrade's arena, ordering – if the permits are not distributed fairly, there we are in the center. So, what do we get from this whole conclusion? The question is, why is that? The conclusion carried out in 2009 is that of the 32 carriers of the Business Association of International Transport Operators of Serbia, the short-term Pumed, received the highest number of permits. In Serbia, 785 carriers were registered for international transport, and "pumedovci", so to call them, which account for only 4% of Serbian carriers, after seven changes in the criteria, received every fifth international one-year permit. Without them, at the same time next year, there will be as many as 498 shipping companies. This leads to the conclusion that individuals shared their hats and hands with each other, so that 35 members of the Management Board of Pumeda received 197 permits in 2009. The company with a CEMT permit can be sold for as much as 100 to 50,000 euros, and without these permits it will receive no more than five to ten thousand euros, some carriers explain. What are the favored members of the Pumeda? In particular, for example, Belgrade's Atomis with six trucks got two CEMT licenses, and AT "King" with only 44 trucks, but he's not a member of the "Pumeda" and that's the conclusion of this whole story. What's bad, which is why the Ministry blames itself, is a practice, which was kind of bad. That is why the criteria for meeting the requirements for obtaining licences will have to be disclosed in January. So, when this happens as in 2009, that ten days before the schedule of the licenses, we change the criteria under pressure and similar desires of individuals, we come to this situation, that not everyone can come to the licence. There is still some data, that it is necessary by 31 December to provide for the division of CEMT licences, which is a condition that the distribution and individual permits immediately follow them. This will mean only one thing, that since January 1st, no registered truck for international transport will be able to cross the state border and take the path of Europe. One newspaper said Serbia lost at least a billion euros annually due to a lack of transport permits. And that's what can affect the economic situation in our country. If that's how it's gonna be in 2010, we'll have to see. What I would specifically point out, and what could not be heard from today's discussion (I am sorry that there are no representatives of the position, probably for them this law is not important), is the "Electro Network of Serbia" affair, which was announced on the illegal transport of the "Electro Network of Serbia" transformer in which Croatia played a major role. There, just two years ago, Serbian transport companies were suspended by Croatia by 12,000 bilateral licenses to "baptize" Croatia. The reason for all this is also listed as a type of pressure on the then minister, who has just enthroned himself. It was done literally by the Croatian minister, who informed our minister or you, Mr. Mrkonjic, that Serbian carriers will not get the permits until "Zagrebtransu" is able to transport transformers to "Electro Networks of Serbia". So, for the sake of citizens to say, Croatian Rade Končar has produced two transformers, but its delivery has been delayed for eight months because it has hired a company that cannot carry out such transportation under domestic laws, more specifically there are no conditions. The director, one of them, Bora Kecic, who has been educated and who has opportunities for special transportation, said Kalmeta, is called the Croatian official who placed this type of blackmail, along with his associates and directors of the public enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" last Friday night until late working for a criminal company "Eurosped" from Zemun. Here's what he says - they've allowed them to extend the permit for the transport of transformers that wasn't legally valid. A third-rate lawyer, now he explains, Goran Tomic gave me the cover to do so. First of all, what was done? The license was issued on the basis of a traffic permit for the trailer of the Croatian firm Zagrebtrans, which the Serbian MUP abolished as illegal. Tomic explained that they pressured him and that he had to sign it and suggested they sue him, and he would only be responsible for the violation of the cabotage, the transport of goods or people who operate a foreign carrier in our country's territory. One of the two transformers was transported, but was not transported in accordance with the law. There is no classic simulated legal business between "Zagrebtrans" and "Eurospeda", because this one doesn't have a trailer for such transport, but they masked the business with a fictitious lease contract for the Zagrebtrans trailer. On the ground, the people of Zagrebtrans managed the trailer because the Eurospeds had no trained workers, and it was clear that they were making cabotage. That's how they damaged, in a way, and this law. What the International Transport Association has announced has asked the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the MUP to issue transformer transport permits, which have allowed Croatian Minister Bozidar Kalmeta to lift 12,000 bilateral permits to the Serbian carriers, so that then Eurospedu from Zemun would be allowed to carry out the transport by the trailer "Zagrebtrans". What is also important is that some individuals have already been stamped there and that some of the comments that have been made about you, ministers, have certainly been put out of force, because at the moment you became Minister, it had nothing to do with you, but it has to do with those who were then in the jurisdiction of JP "The Ways of Serbia". They used to be from the Road Directorate, I will mention the current director for the maintenance of Darko Pesic, who made this use and abuse of cabotage on our roads. The Secretariat for the fight against organised crime has launched an investigation against several people on suspicion that together with the Croatian company "Zagrebtrans" they tried to damage the state by over 100,000 euros. It was a sign. The Croatian company has tried to carry out illegal transportation operations in which Serbian companies would be damaged by more than 300,000 euros, while the state would be denied about 100,000 euros in profit tax and VAT. "Zagrebtrans" has, in recent years, damaged Serbia, estimated by millions of euros. The main organiser of these shops is Janko Lalic, director of "Zagrebtrans" for the Serbia-Montenegro market. In addition to Lalic, Dragan Stojanovic, director of Eurospeda, Jova Obradovic, director of the Savatransa, and Miodrag Kavgic, one of the executives of JP "The Paths of Serbia". Kavgic was in charge of issuing permits for Croatian transport. Obradovic and Stojanovic's role was to hide by hiring their companies that illegal cabotage is at work and to make it impossible for everything in reality to look like a foreign company is doing business. Croatian Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Bozidar Kalmeta continued, despite the transfer of a transformer, to blackmail our ministry. Although our ministry approved that the Croatian firm "Zagrebtrans" carried an illegal transport of transformers from the railway station "Roman Barceva" in Novi Sad to the trafosco station "Electro Network of Serbia", 12,000 bilateral passes through Croatia were lifted to Serbian carriers and informed the minister that they would not get them back until the "Zagrebtrans" committees transferred this other transformer, which sold to the domestic "Electro Networks of Serbia" Croatian firm "Cončar - energy transformers". The minister allowed Zagrebtrance to transport one of Koncar's transformers, and if he wants to get 12,000 permits, he'll have to allow another. This in some ways put pressure on our ministry by Croatian counterparts to achieve some Croatian goals. I take this as an example of a situation that is undefined by this law. The main role was played by assistant Borislav Borovic. The question arises whether Assistant Assistant Borislav Borovic was then telling the truth when he informed that the transport of transformers to the "Electro Network of Serbia" could only be carried out by a domestic carrier and that the domestic company "Eurosped" announced that it was interested. For the transport, she could have made a commitment to 5,000 euros, although she was the only one at that time interested. It became clear to all of us that this money was small for such a type of service and that it was immediately a suspicious circumstance of how this transformer would be transported in the first place. He noted that only two companies were registered in the Chamber of Commerce for such transport, but that among them it was not "Eurosped" although it was granted permission. The transfer permit was eventually granted "Eurosped", and the transport was carried out by "Zagrebtrans", which was managed by the worker of the Croatian company, which again proves that cabotage was made. On the other hand, the director of the Public Enterprise "Electro Network of Serbia" Milos Milankovic, who worked at Končar's company, did not issue a million-dollar bill to this company due to delays in the delivery of transformers, for which he had a legal obligation. A copy of the correspondence JP of the "Electro Network of Serbia", namely Milos Milankovic, was delivered to our Parliament club with the director of "Končar" Ivan Milic. If you need me, I'll deliver it to you, but here, just for the sake of the citizens, to give you some information. Milankovic says it stands out eight weeks late and that the transfer of transformers was scheduled to take place 330 days ago, justifying the legal inregulatory that the transport would take place. The fines agreed on Sunday are 0.5% of the value of the transformer, Milankovic wrote in his memo, which was already received by the director of Končar's Milic on April 1st. Public Enterprise spokesman "Electro Network of Serbia" Milan Vujicic believes that the director did not make a mistake and that after the transfer of transformers, he will have enough time to place invoices for the Croats. It hasn't been done in a day or two. Clearly, Končar had to pay 0.5% for every week's delay. If the job is worth eightm euros, the Croatian company owes the Elektro Networks 40,000 euros a week. Since Končar with the transfer of transformers is about 30 weeks late, the debt is 1,200,000 euros, which has not been settled today, justifying the inregulatory transport of transformers. The Croatian CEO "Cončar – Energy Transformators" Ivan Milic's Croatian police have even launched an investigation and so far it is not known whether it has anything to do with the affairs he has concluded with the director of the Serbian "Electro Network" Milankovic. What's true is there was complicity in our ministry. Don't take this personally, Minister, because you've come and already found that situation, but you can solve it. Zarko Kosovic, owner of Belgrade's Bora Kecic special transport company, publicly accused Assistant Minister of Infrastructure Borislav Borovic and head of the ministry's legal service Sonja Kocic of being guilty of the chaos that occurred in the area of international transport. He also said that the allies of the Croatian Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which abolished 12,000 permits for Serbian carriers, as Kocic and Borovic, said at a conference, they made a decision to deny the permits to Serbian carriers and thus allowed "Zagrebtrans" to pass the rules in Serbia to transport those transformers, which means that even publicly broken legislation. What I would say in favour of this discussion is the attitude towards passenger transport, i.e. The buses. This was also in the press, that Serbia would not freeze permits to Croatian carriers, although they did so to Serbian firms, but therefore the buses from Republika Srpska would be banned from working in Serbia. Assistant Infrastructure Minister Borislav Borovic has ruined business for transporters from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, but has therefore allowed Croatian transporters to make thousands of successful transports to Serbia. He says the Ministry of Infrastructure has announced that Croatian carriers will not be lifted or frozen by licenses even though they did so to us with 12,000 permits. In addition, our ministry forbade transporters from Republika Srpska to transport passengers to Serbia. A recent decision by the ministry not to allow us, said transporters from Republika Srpska, to cabotage passengers, transport carried out by a foreign carrier on the territory of another country, has caused us great damage. We estimate that the profits of our companies will be less by 20%, says Gordana Lončar of the company Simit Transport from Banja Luka and hopes to be restored to its original state soon. This law did not restore it to its original state, but the privileges of the Croats remained in force. Aide to the minister of traffic and ties of Republika Srpska Natasa Kostic confirmed that BiH and Republika Srpska had banned cabotage, but that it had recently been silently applied because of the transport of passengers to Republika Srpska's benefit by carriers from Serbia, most of all, just as transporters from Republika Srpska achieved revenues from the cabotage of travellers in Serbia. It's important to point out. Transporters from Serbia are still not prohibited from transporting passengers within Republika Srpska, despite the fact that our carriers have been denied this right in Serbia, Kostic explained. The decision to no longer sell tickets for BiH carriers to most international lines for Serbia from Bosnia and Republika Srpska at bus stations in Serbia has affected, above all, Republika Srpska carriers. Asked if there was a plan with Serbia to reach an agreement to overcome the problem, we failed to get an answer. Borovic signed an agreement with the Croatian Ministry of the Sea (so he made the agreement with the Croats, and with Republika Srpska, BiH, it is not) under which Serbia grants as many as 45,000 universal permits to the Croatians, allowing foreign carriers to transport goods from Serbia to any other country in the world, while in return for the Croatians, he also received 45,000 permits. It is a scandal if we compare the strength of the country of Serbia and Croatia. It is clear to children in the third grade of primary school that Croatia is twice as small and that it should have been treated, as well as everywhere in the world, that if we give 45,000 permits, they should give us at least three times as much. The problem that domestic carriers face when it comes to Croatian competition is that in Croatia almost no Serbian firm has ever received a job driving goods of a Serbian company, say for Italy or any other country in the region. On the other hand, in our country in the privatisation process of the Croatian tycoon, those who bought over 50 domestic companies give their jobs exclusively to Croatian carriers, and in Serbia there are many Croatian directors who behave the same way. Therefore, the conclusion of Croatia's monopoly and influence in Serbia should be drawn from this. If we consider transport to be one of the most important industries for the functioning of a stable state and society, we can freely compare such a shut-down of transport companies to, say, cutting veins in living things. We need to note the damage that people in transport companies already suffered by adopting the Traffic Safety Act. The law has led 70% of traffic engineers to lose their jobs at a time when the overall economic situation in Serbia and the world is very difficult. When this business branch in Serbia is in big trouble and tries to fight for survival, the fines in this law go beyond two and a half million dinars. Such application of the law can lead to a lock being placed on most of the companies involved in transport. If we have in mind that the price of the tow and semi-trailer is about six years old is 25,000 euros or about two and a half million dinars, and the average of the years of the rolling stock of our companies is over six years old, we realize that, if companies are fined with two and a half million dinars, there is only one option, and this is the sale of basic assets for work or lock at the gates of many companies. Here's an example of this practice, a violation of a member of the law that the company cannot influence, or that it be punished by two and a half million dinars. For the infringement of Article 112 paragraph 1 point 2) when the axle load is exceeded is prescribed by technical standards for vehicles and the maximum permissible total mass, by more than 5.0% and point 3), the experience of other people and those engaged in transport, that they are still employed in transport companies, says it is impossible for the company to pay for the vehicle and employees of drivers who, when it comes to international transport, do not return to the base even after a few months. That's why you have an ad on the Internet and in the daily press that says - I'm changing my degree in graduate traffic engineer for a degree in home school, possibly for a degree in police academy with my extra charge. It is a sad picture of Serbia, and therefore the version proposed by the MUP to the government, not the Faculty of Traffic, was adopted. No wonder the educated people in the traffic business are acting like this. What is also worthy of attention in this law is the release of a CPC diploma. Transporters of the country and the region, specifically from BiH, which deal with international transport, claim that CPC diplomas that paid massively can hang a cat on the tail. They point out that the ministry has told them that without them they will not be able to move a mile into EU countries, so that it turns out that these papers are completely worthless, although it is something that has been prescribed by practice, not our ministry. You yourself know that on the AMSS site there is an IRU Academy that is run as an educational institution, an international association for road transport, founded in 2000 because of the need to increase the quality of road traffic through the application of standards prescribed by European directives. So we are actively working on education even though the practice of countries in the region has shown that the CPC permit or diploma, whatever you want to call it, is not applicable. So, the conclusion from all this. We must, in order to comply with EU laws or international standards, first solve crime and corruption in our ranks, secondly, change the standards of our roads to the standards of EU countries, especially what my colleague Mladenovic said, in places where trucks can rest, tachographs to change, etc., and then one law that will be applied evenly to all international actors or those companies that want to work in our country, and priority to give, primarily to domestic carriers, which is not the case in this situation. Only if the domestic carrier is a Croatian company, which showed this example that I cited. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36329	Thank you, Mr. Avramovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the MPs of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36330	As I said at the beginning, with special pleasure I always participate in Parliament's work, especially when the topics from the area where I am headed now are traffic, transport and infrastructure. I am extremely grateful to all the MPs who have been discussing and, in order not to take much time, since the president has been telling me all along that we have to finish this point today, otherwise I would be answering by midnight, especially to my neighbor Milan, who still has to come to me at the Ministry and bring all the data to me, I go in turn, in short. Djordje Milicevic, a young fellow MP, is all right. Zoran Shami, professor, everything's right. A neighbor too. I apologize for bringing in a little familiality. To crucify these messengers, not to sleep. I'll tell Professor Shami immediately, of course he's a member of the 7, and I'll immediately answer to the other MPs who spoke about that member, already changed. We'll see in what form we'll do it, because, I remind you, the adjustment of this law of ours is until September. In September, we will have a new law, and until then we must adapt to European standards of this existing law. European standards speak of these licences. Of course, right now to answer our MPs from the SRS, we are not so insecure that we are looking for licenses for people who have completed a traffic college, but we are going to have to review it a little bit and combine it with EU regulations and, of course, to us. This applies to Article 7, 13a, 13b, etc. Mr. Jeremiah, we've already accepted the passport. I think the vice president of the assembly has already informed you. It's already accepted. I think another MP was talking about it, Mr. Savik, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm not explaining it. Inspection services. I must say, most of these remarks you made here refer to foreign carriers throughout our country, the punishment of foreign carriers, which is what our carriers were looking for. That's why we increased the fines, leveled them with penalties for our carriers, because that's what our carriers were looking for. And I wish we could take more money for the budget that way, but we certainly won't let our carriers be second-class people in our country. All these fines apply to that. In addition to the passport, Article 1, Mr. Savic is not here, we said. Travel log, he's absolutely right. I remind you it's an old federal law, so that term was stolen here. And that law has been in preparation since July. And what he's saying is there's got to be a way to go, and that's changing, too. As for these lists we've been keeping for two years, unfortunately it's an international law, and we've already processed it all, and we have to respect it for these or those reasons. That's not what I'd be talking about right now. With Mr Radisa Ilic, there is no transport van on line transportation or in the country, and especially outside of it, according to EU laws, unfortunately Radisa, otherwise I would like to install it with special satisfaction. So there isn't. We have to have buses and they're international standards. Otherwise, you're absolutely right. And I agree with a lot of things you say, but unfortunately, as a minister, I have to respect European laws so we can go to Europe, what to do. Bojan Mladenovic is absolutely right. Bojan, I wish our paths were such a standard that we could travel peacefully today. Of course, one very important piece of information to tell you, the EU's assessment is that we must, if we want to go to Europe, meet the standard of Europe in five years, not in the construction of new routes. That's why it was a rush to buy these companies in that wild privatisation we did, that's why. I'm not talking about building highways and building new roads. It seems to me that this government seems to be making enough effort, and the previous one has begun, which I must say, that the roads, Mr. Shami, have led to some order. But what's important to me, at least now we have priorities, so we work on those priorities. The signposts. Bojan's right, all of this has to suffer drastic changes and it takes a lot of money, but we'll try to make it right. Let me just go back to those last two radio questions about the M.O.P. You're absolutely right. I'll get the information from Mr. Dacic, so I'll answer those two questions, as well as my neighbor Avramovic. I know this whole case, I found it, but I'd like to pray, about the associates I worked with, I don't want to comment. Mr. Borovic resigned himself and is no longer in the ministry. Mrs. Sonja Kostic is a good lawyer, and I am working with her now, and I would not comment on that. But that doesn't mean that for every remark you have, especially in this area in the distribution of permits, you don't have to come directly to me, either you or the people you communicate with, if there are irregularities you've been talking about. There were, we're aware of that, and that's why we're trying to seduce order. That's why we regularly held meetings with our, as they say, truckers. At least three or four times so far, I've talked to them about these international transports, etc. This year, for the first time, there were no of these remarks that you spoke of from the previous year. Please check it out. So there's some sort of seduction after all. They're allowed once a year, back to international regulations, but there are possible revisions and we're doing these audits, personally me. If anyone has any objection that I didn't allow someone to take the permit standing with me or that I misused it, especially if I took the money, please shut me down immediately. We're trying to seduce maximum order and discipline here. In the end, I must, I have not answered the questions related to these international permits, of course, that Serbia has a very limited number of these permits. Of course they are particularly deficit permits for Hungary and we are agreeing with the Hungarians. With the Croats, I must say, right now with Mr. Bozidar Calmet, I've had no problem myself. My first associate now, assistant lawyer Mić Ilic, has been doing this job for almost a year, has been in Croatia several times, has been very correct co-operation and there is no problem with licenses. Of course, those 12,000 permits were never taken from us. I have to deny it now, but please give me the whole package, the one I was talking about earlier, deliver or come to me and let's take a look at it and check it out again. So, once again, I made a promise that the new law would be on the agenda in the autumn session. Until then, I ask you to accept what we propose and vote for amendments to the International Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-10-0.u36331	Dear People's MPs, I thank Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Milorad Ilic for his passive participation in the work and for all of you. I am concluding a principled review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport. We'll be working on 11.3.2010, so tomorrow, at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records, 95 MPs are present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 93 MPs in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) First Mr Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
