ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48856	After a break and according to the government's report on the amendments, we continue today's work. First of all, I would like to ask Minister Milan Markovic to enter the hall, as it is located in the Assembly building. We'll wait for the minister until he gets here, if Mrs. Radeta doesn't mind, or do you want us to move right over to work, no matter what the minister is in the lobby? (The Belief of Radet, from the place: How does the Rules of Procedure say?) The Rules of Procedure say we're waiting for the minister. Thank you. You have accepted the resignation of Jasmine Milosevic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case under Article 88(2). The Law on the Election of People's MPs, so I propose that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Jasmina Milosevic, elected from the SPS-PUPS-JS election list, on the day of resigning. According to the Law on the Election of People's MPs, the completion of the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also be carried out. Despite his best wishes, patience has its own measure. The Minister's gone. I'm setting a break of 20 minutes. We'll continue our work at 1345 hours. Thank you for your patience. [[After break – 13:45]] I welcome the minister, with apologies to the MPs for being late, so this relationship with the National Assembly is seriously at stake in the timing of the adoption of the budget. This is a warning to the government, because this is the second day we have trouble working. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary to reiterate and inform the public that today's work of this Parliament has been moved by one hour and 50 minutes because no one from the government of Boris Tadic has been in the mood to sit in parliament. This really speaks about the regime's relationship to the highest legislative body, and the relationship between the same regime and the government towards the MPs of the SRS and our amendments is also something worth commenting on. We have tabled several amendments to this bill, each amendment has been very concretely explained and we have made arguments as to why we think that the solutions we have proposed are better than the solutions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but only for our amendments, therefore, this does not apply to other parliamentary groups, each Government's argument is completely identical and they say that the government's solution is more consistent with the solution proposed by the SRS MPs. It's really unserious and irresponsible, but this is just for the public to know. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Salaries of State Officials and Deputys, we talked a lot about this law in principle, and the basic law and this new proposal, and the abuses in the application of this law and the fact that in this new proposal, too, all the opportunities for abuse remain. Some of us tried to warn our amendments, but apparently the government didn't respond. We had no dialogue with the government's representative because we discussed in the principle debate in the absence of government representatives, at least in the part where the SRS MPs came to speak. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law, among other things, is that from this previous one, the coefficients as an element for determining the height of the salary play a double role. The first role is social character because it provides economic existence to employees in state bodies. The second role is the possibility of progress with the coefficient, should be stimulating enough for all civil servants. This argument is indeed fine, but the point is that what is proposed in this law does not correspond to this argument and to these declarative reasons for the adoption of the law. This is best seen in Article 1 amending Article 13 of the basic law, which actually contains paying groups and paying classes for employees of state authorities. It should be recalled, again, for the sake of the public, that there is a basic law of 13 paying groups and that by today's day there is still a range between the lowest and highest earnings in the state bodies 1:9, which is indeed inadmissible and does not justify the current government, because I assume that the government's representative will say that the current government has not passed this basic law, which is true, but does not justify that this law has been allowed to apply for almost four years. This solution in amendments and amendments to the law goes towards making the wage range between the lowest and highest in state bodies 1-6. We in the SRS believe that this is also not good and that it is too large a range, even if it is not a situation where today's citizens of Serbia are barely able to cope with high wages, let alone these lowest profits, which can no longer be put to an end, but of which they can no longer meet even the basic needs of life. I believe you're aware of that. You have defined yourself, as it stands in the light of this law, that is to say you will be defined by one billion and 600 million to increase profits in state bodies, or to increase these lowest earnings. But again, what you've predicted is neither just nor whole, as you've written, and it doesn't solve the way you listed social problems employed by state authorities. It's important to know about the public, we talked about it in principle, that this increase in earnings refers to the most socially vulnerable, i.e. the lowest earners, but you didn't increase employees' earnings from the first to the fifth paying group and there's no need for that, but you need to know in the first two groups of positions that there are quite a number of employees in state bodies who have enormous earnings. We have never been given an explanation that someone who is an assistant minister can make more money than the minister himself, that the assistant secretary of the assembly has about three salaries of the MP and a significantly higher salary than the secretary of the assembly. These are the abuses that we are talking about and which we draw your attention to, because that's how you meet your party officials, and that's how you solve their problems, and for the real problems of the Serbian citizens and those with the lowest earnings, you don't care. What you suggested in this range 1:6 would mean that the lowest salary in the state bodies would be 22,468,60 dinars. That's not enough, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we repeat that range 1:6 is unacceptable. I want to remind you of what the SRS was doing at the time that the president of the municipality was Vojislav Seselj in the municipality of Zemun. We then made a profit range of 1:3 and at that time they were employed with the lowest incomes, first of all, maids, physical workers, then they got almost double the profit increase and they were able to live decently from their profits. Those who had high profits and at that time got a minimal increase or some didn't get an increase at all and then we made a boom in local self-government. In the municipality of Zemun, employees had the highest earnings at the time, and then we were called from various municipalities around Serbia to ask us how we did it, and then that model began to be applied in other local self-governments, and I recommend that it would be good for you to consider making a real decision to make the profits in the state bodies adequately distributed. You can't just take care of those who have high profits and those who, I repeat, are party officials. We should also remind the public that the number of employees in the state authorities in 2000 was about eight thousand, and that today it was the number 28 thousand. We are convinced that there is no one who can explain the reason why you have made such a numerous state administration that is incredibly costing the citizens of Serbia. Now you've come to the point that you've passed a law to reduce the number of employees in both state authorities and local self-government. Of course, you have not applied that law as well as many that you have brought so far, and we of the SRS were then against these laws, and today, of course, because by setting up your people, people from your parties and activists from your parties for the past ten years, we have made this overpriced administration and how you have without responsibility employed such a large number of people, so without any responsibility you are firing people and increasing the number of unemployed in RS. In Article 1, we suggested that the lowest profit has a coefficient of 1.55. that's what you predicted in the 12th pay group. We have suggested that it be in the 13th paying group and that according to this other paying groups move, and in our proposal for the lowest earnings in the state authorities would be 24876,95 dinars. It is not the profit of which today can be a decent living, but unfortunately given the daily gatherings and gatherings that are announced to us at the beginning of next year, a very small number in Serbia is those who will be able to live decently, and everyone else will try to survive. A question for you, Mr. Minister, in which pay group will you or in which pay grade will you classify the lady who serves IMF officers when they come to Serbia to turn your ears? I'll tell you why I'm asking that specifically. I suppose you know, but the citizens of Serbia don't know, so for Serbia's citizens, I'm going to explain what I'm talking about. In the latest issue of SRS "Great Serbia" the head of our anti-corruption team, Ivan Ninic, described with many details and details of the IMF bahanalal, as he wrote in the title, so there are a lot of information about the spending on excursions, lunches, dinners, phones, offices etc. But since this is not a topic, I only recommend that Serbian citizens can look for this paper in all SRS municipal committees, so they can get to know all these facts themselves, and this is how it says for you that Bozidar Djelic and Radovan Jelasic promised the IMF's director in Washington that in addition to using the NBS business space, the NBS will bear the cost of employees in the IMF office in Belgrade. And then in the period from June 1st 2008 to May 31st 2009, the IMF's office had one person engaged under the contract for work, and it was Mrs Desanka Nestorovic, who was doing these secretaries' jobs, and by the way your secretary, Mr Minister, and the secretaries in the state administration have about 24,000 dinars of salary. This lady received incredible 136,988 dinars on the basis of two contracts per month. According to NBS data, Desanka Nestorovic was grossly costing citizens of Serbia every month 218,367 dinars. So 2,183,670 dinars gross, and she put 1,369,880 dinars directly in her pocket. So, Ministers, we'd like you to tell us which pay group would you put these 13 planned for this lady with this monthly income as the secretary of 136,988 dinars? I don't expect you to give us an answer to that question, but we put this first for Serbia's citizens. The question also for you, Minister, since it is one of the reasons for the adoption of this law as you yourself said the possibility of progressing with the coefficient that should be, as you say, stimulating, whether this possibility of advancement applies to employees, to their effective internship or to their well-fused work experience? This is a very practical and concrete question that certainly interests many who are in one of these two groups. So, we've brought out a lot of data and the amendment we've submitted, we're saying that, first of all, it corresponds to these reasons that you've cited for lawmaking and that as much as it allows decent lives for people who have worked for the salaries of 16,000 dinars so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48859	14 minutes and 20 seconds of authorized or parliamentary time have been used? (The Verse of Radeta from the place: From the authorized. I thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Sasa Dujovic and Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48860	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 2(2) of this Article 27 which speaks of work longer than full-time. The bill states that longer than full-time work is monthly converted into hours off, which the civil servant must use during the next month. We added the amendment to say – if the employer cannot meet it, then, within the next month, it is required that overtime be paid by the next month. Something similar exists in the 5th position of the proposal of this Article 27, that is, Article 2 of the amendment of this law, but does not apply to all employees who perform overtime, and we felt that this proposed position of Article 27 is false, i.e. that it is incomplete, and that it will create opportunities for abuse in its application. We really expected you, Minister, to accept this amendment, because it primarily legal-technically edits and specifies this proposal. Why do we think this amendment should be accepted? Among other things, we spoke in your absence in the principle debate, Minister, what abuses occur when it comes to overtime. There are services within the state authorities, above all, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, employees who have to work overtime because parliament is meeting overtime. Today, for example, all employees came to work at 8:30, and it seems to me that that's when their working hours start and they'll be left behind because the Assembly didn't start working today as scheduled at 12.00 hours, but at 13.50 hours, because the irresponsible government didn't send anyone to attend today's work, and of course, those employees will accomplish, in addition to their will, overtime because they have to sit here while parliament is working. On the other hand, just today, I'm saying this again as an example, to illustrate why we think we should adopt our amendment, only today did we get the draft budget law. We don't know when the session's scheduled yet. Anyway, we'll be in a lot of pressure over time when it comes to making amendments. It is normal for employees working in parliamentary groups to stay together with MPs in parliament in order to carry out a number of amendments, as many as the parliamentary group thinks there is room for amendments. Then what's going on? When employees of the SRS parliamentary group, ministers, submit their report on overtime and write that they have been doing so much overtime on that day because of their participation, or helping MPs to make amendments, the Secretary-General is nice to them and will not pay them what they had to do with MPs to make amendments. According to our information, this applies only to employees of the SRS parliamentary group. You have still left the possibility in this law to treat the secretary to employees of the National Assembly in this way, because you have not accepted this amendment, that the employer is obliged or that in the next month to ensure the use of overtime hours, or if he cannot, then to pay it in accordance with the law. Of course, there are services where it is not possible to apply, to apply this second attitude, to take advantage of that time earned over time next month. I am talking about the Assembly again, because it is the most visible, above all, and the citizens of Serbia. This is the best example, because employees in the Assembly cannot use overtime, or spare days in the name of overtime hours when they would like to, but when parliament does not work. That was one of the reasons why we drew your attention to accept our amendment, to have a comprehensive attitude, where no one would be allowed to manipulate, abuse, so that people could gather by who knows how many hours and days in the name of overtime, and that, of course, they could never use it in their lives. No one is obliged, nor can you force anyone to work overtime without paying him, or to make it impossible for him to use his days off. Through these laws, you have made very restrictive access to it so far, and in general, when it comes to overtime, from cutting the amount, how it is paid, to being able to use the days off, how much overtime can be achieved, and then you have people who make a lot more overtime than the law allows. That's what happens in the end - she eats a cat. This is neither just nor constitutional, nor legal, in particular, fulfilling the social moment that you see and state as a reason for adopting this law. I therefore recommend that the congregation majority vote in favour of our amendment, unless you want to continue to abuse this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48861	Six minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Palalic, so Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48862	Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for this law, for reasons we do not see any reason to justify going beyond the legal frameworks defined by the Labour Act, which concern overtime. Above all, in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law, in the text of the reasoning, we did not get a single word in the explanation of why this seems, why it violates the provision of Article 37. The labour law that defines overtime, and which, as a general standard, is applied in all situations of working relationship. I think it would be very important if we had any explanation, and above all, to hear what the reasons, which is the size of the business, which so far has not existed, and which is reportedly going to exist after the adoption of this law that would require such a norm. I must say that we are now witnessing a situation that at the last moment we will discuss the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, after, in fact, the date of the autumn session. Perhaps it would be precisely the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Nelados of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries lead to the need to perform such interventions and perform overtime in certain services or in ministries or other institutions. I think the solutions that have been in the law so far have made it possible for the situation in which the facts are defined to be defined by Article 37. The labour law, when it is possible to do overtime, is that there was a need for more force, due to an exceptional increase in the volume of work, in other cases when it is necessary to complete a job that is not planned within a certain time period, to define the needs of overtime. The fact that, at least when it comes to the ministry, when it comes to government institutions, we have a serious objection, a serious criticism of the intensity of the work, of the fact that we don't have, at least this assembly, this assembly, this assembly, a sufficient number of initiatives and acts by the government to even discuss it, then the question arises -- what are the reasons, other than delays and teats with deadlines defined by law? Another problem which may be an excuse, and I like to hear, of course, the government's representative of what is the reason for such a provision, is the absence of a consistent and continuous staff policy, in this official esnaf, that enough and quality has been done and when it comes to the High Official Council, when it comes to staff services within the government, on education, on improving the work of the service, on solving problems concerning their knowledge to solve problems, then it would certainly not be necessary for a large number of citizens to criticise the urgency in resolving their rights by the authorities and administration of the ministries or other institutions of the Republic of Serbia. So these are problems that currently exist within the state administration and we now need these problems to solve by allowing overtime to last 90 days of the year, which is literally one third of the total number of days that are working days in one year. Is that really justifiable? The other problem, which more of my colleagues will talk about, is what was given in the explanation of the rejection of our amendment, that this exception to the general rule of the Labour Act is applied with the consent of the employee. Let's see what kind of freedom and position it is employed by the authorities of the state administration and institutions, that he can order his superior to work longer than the Labour Act refuses or it will be some kind of natural consent. Therefore, the problem that is trying to solve, the impunity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the continued coming into the teat with the fulfilment of its legal obligations, the poor working with the official staff and their education affect the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to make their weaknesses in the reform of the state administration by increasing overtime and violating the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48863	Three minutes and twenty seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. The word is Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48864	I do not believe that there is a fundamental issue of overtime to edit in a different way than is provided for by the general law of the Labour Act. If it says in the Labour Act that overtime can last eight hours, then I really don't see why this law is now extending to 20. It's simply not a matter of arbitraryness. In addition to the fact that this provision has no legal basis or at least I don't see it, I don't think she has her own medical justification. Just imagine a man working 90 days a year for 12 hours. That's exactly what this bill says, and it's impossible that such work simply doesn't affect his psychophysical state. Now, I could perhaps understand this provision that it was the rationalization of the state administration, as it was recently self-initiated by the government. I have no legal justification for such a thing here, so because of the increased volume of work and the reduced number of employees, this is imposed as a need. But we all know very well how much state administration is and how much it's grown since 2000, so I just can't accept that argument. I think the key question here is the productivity issue of the work, and that's why I see this provision primarily as a possibility for many abuses. On the one hand, the number of employees in the state administration, although it was announced earlier, has not been reduced, although the government has proposed, this assembly has passed some very bad laws dealing with the issue, and my parliamentary group has been very argumentarily attacking these same bill proposals and it is fortunate that there has been no reduction of employees in the state administration under the law. I think that again in another part of the state administration, specifically, when it comes to the judiciary, and that there has been a reduction in the number of employees, and that in fact it did not affect their material position. I have some information, specifically, when it comes to the judiciary. The judiciary has left 1.114 employees and 919 people who have been assigned to work for a certain time since 1 January 2010. Because of the public, I say there are no unselected judges in this issue. Despite such a large reduction in the number of employees, their material position is not that it did not remain the same, but it is drastically difficult because of too much work and because the number of judicial employees is now drastically reduced. That's what I'm going to illustrate by saying what the general salaries of the judicial administration are. The judicial administration's salary ranges from 113 euros to 182 euros and the salaries of experts from 307 to 478 euros. You'll agree that these are extremely low wages, and I want to point out here, first and foremost, that this law should have been looked at in some way by professional associates themselves. I would like to remind you, it is a matter of graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam whose work is not adequately appreciated and who carry out very complicated professional and responsible tasks for legal holders. Now we know what the state of the state of government is, we see what the situation in the judiciary is, but I don't think the government sees that the rationalization of the state administration itself needs to go on its own. We today have one of the most massive governments not only in the region, but also in Europe at all, if we take as a criterion the number of inhabitants. If we ignore the number of ministries, if we ignore the number of vice-presidents, we know that this government has 56 state secretaries, or 111 ministerial assistants, and how many advisors I don't think even the present minister here has that number and at all what they're doing, I don't think anyone in the Ministry knows. Now, lately, some stories about the government's reconstruction are opening up. I think that this topic is completely declassified and completely deplaced to open the issue of government reconstruction in the year which is in fact an election year. These stories are not just too late, I think someone had any serious intention of reaching a government reconstruction, then it happens in the first year of her term, and it doesn't happen in the last year. Here, this morning we had a chance to look into the budget itself. I saw the number of the ministry remained the same. So how can we even talk about the government's reconstruction with the same number of ministries and costs that are still not so insignificant? I would now like to point out how much the government takes care of its state administration and, in general, the costs of the state administration, best shows that the government, instead of reducing the costs of going to the state administration, has increased the salaries of the state administration by a budget of 2010 by one billion and 400 million dinars. So now I'm asking a question - who are these funds for? Since we know that today we are talking about the most vulnerable categories of state administration, why were these funds not specifically meant for those categories that we are discussing here today? As for the amendments that my colleague Palalic and I have submitted, I think that if the government did not have a hearing for him, we should get some reasoned explanation which is why he was not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48865	Six-and-a-half minutes of Parliament time was used. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48866	Article 2 is amended as follows: Paragraph 4 reads: "The overtime of the article's 3rd position may be introduced for a maximum of 90 days in the calendar year". The DSS MP group felt that this position should be deleted. I'll explain why. It is very clear that the state that passed the law against labour abuse cannot now in its law, which, by the way, changes personal income in the state administration and changes working time in the state administration. So what you wrote here is real abuse at work. The only one who does this abuse is the state, or the minister, in other words. What did you write in Article 4? You wrote that overtime can be introduced for the longest 90 days of the calendar year. The minister isn't in this law anyway, and because of him, we lost an hour, so there's no need for him to be present, but I'll keep talking. Just so the citizens of Serbia know I'm saying this without the minister's presence. Therefore, the overtime of the Article 3 item may be introduced for a maximum period of 90 days in the calendar year. If the number of working days in the year is 270, 90 days is not a negligible number of days – that is one third. Then we can't speak, as you wrote to us in an explanation why you don't accept our amendment, that it's an exception, not an intended rule. Excuse me, one-third of the workdays a year is a large number, and that can't be an exception. Secondly, if you notice that you wrote in Section 3 that prolonged work will be the longest 20 hours a week, when you divide it by five working days a week, it turns out four hours a day. Since you didn't write it, it's plus the eight hours it lasts on a regular basis, so it's 12 hours every day. In Article 4, you didn't write those 90 days that you weren't going to be in continuum. It doesn't say that anywhere, which means that 90 days of the state will be able to molest an officer for 12 hours a day. Do you think it endangers his health? I guess not. Let's say the minister can come out any time he wants, but the civil servant can't come out whenever he wants. In addition to this well-known issue of freedom that civil servants have in state authorities, it's actually a category that you can't commit to freedom. Why? Because he has a Law on the number of civil servants that provides for a reduction in the number of civil servants. He is facing an economic crisis that the government has imposed on the state of Serbia. He can't even handle this small salary, he has to agree to this abuse that the state imposes on him. Then you have a large number of unemployed. If he accidentally rejects what his superior requires of him, he will remain on the street and remain unemployed. Where's he gonna get a job? 200,000 jobs have been lost, those employed for the government's mandate. In other words, all this shows that you know very well that this is a typical abuse at work. Typically also because you wrote it in the attitude of the 3rd of this law. "The previous consent of the employee" – imagine, employees will give 90 days of prior consent to abuse him 12 hours a day. And you think that this consent is perfectly fine and that she's not being extorted? She's, of course, extorted because you're gonna fire him. And the most hypocritical of all is that this law is presented as a law which will increase the ridiculous and rudely low income of civil servants, and along the way you impose on him a new obligation which is and how well it has been regulated in the Labour Act, but you find a new way to oblige him to do as long as you need it, for ministers to be able to walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48867	Four minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP, Gordana Pop Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by Vice President Jovanovic Natas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48868	Mr. Novakovic, I really need to express my protest because Mr. Minister is not here, because I was just about to address him and remind him of the time when the first Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies was passed. Namely, you remember that night session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for a reminder, too, and I must say that at that time a precedent was made which was introduced in relation to the executive according to the legislative authority and you were then, even though you were part of the coalition, protesting as a party. Because for the first time in the Assembly he came to this very law, with these new categories of substitutes, explained Mr Balinovac, who was the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation and we had to change the Rules of Procedure a few days before and give him the opportunity to come with such a law. Mr. Milan Markovic, who is today Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, was then an opposition to Mr. Balinovac and then the coalition. That session lasted until half past five in the morning and just like the MPs of the SRS, and the DS MPs I see now very well imagined, I don't know if they're responding to these legitimate arguments of ours have submitted numerous amendments. What changed from that time to today? You see, in those four years, the position of civil servants and tenants has gotten worse and worse. Mr Markovic left the opposition in 2007 and then forgot about those promises that he made that night as an opposition MP and his DS to civil servants and tenants for whom Mr Balinovac, after being introduced as a new category, said – the National Assembly of RS without them and can. Of course we can't, and you know it well, as one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly, just like me, since you're using the furniture services, if I may say so, and these are drivers who are drivers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who have a salary of over 30 years of employment or of these colleagues who are now retired from a 40-year-old internship, with a salary of less than 20,000 dinars. So they put their heads in the bag, they drive us in situations where the secretary general requires boards, and these people have a salary of 20,000 dinars. This amendment has not been accepted. As Radet's colleague said, I'm really under the impression that the minister hasn't even looked at these amendments at all. He didn't read it. Because, if he had read it, and this was partly said by a colleague Radovic and co-worker Vojić Markovic, then we could really have defined in this member of the law, the primary member of the 27th and say – civil servants and tenants have working hours and overtime. When that overtime is, we don't know it, it's a lottery for them, every day they go to work they can assume whether it's going to be or won't be overtime, and those kind of days a year can be 90 days. Mrs. Pop Lazic has been going to a more celery, more meaningful and humane solution, and she has made a nice amendment on behalf of the SRS to make it a maximum of 60 days, and that is when job needs require it. Please, is it normal for people who don't have paid overtime, and these are state officials, the tenants, besides the mentioned drivers, to be these stenographers, who do their job, to be waiters and chefs, and those who think and think about whether an MP at 12 a.m. when he's working overtime eats hot pie or cooks an omelet, because on that day everything that's stored in the kitchen is served for lunch and dinner? Where is humanity? Where is this relationship with people who serve to maintain the work of this institution and that they work normally? Where is justice, and why isn't this problem systemically solved? First, when it came to introducing the category of the tenant. You should have taken into account that all employees and tenants who work, if necessary for one state institution, here's only to speak best about opportunities in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, must have their own safety. If asked of them, Mr. Novakovic, there is now the Secretary-General, that they work 90 days a year overtime, and you do not know when, then why they are already so needed, and they are, because they are constantly prolonging this work, such as our co-workers in the parliamentary group. Why do they not have a permanent working relationship? Why are they under contract for six months, so for years? I have to inform the public, I think, and before we talked about that we as a political party that won the largest number of mandates as an opposition party and you stole 22 mandates, we have to talk all the time, we do not have in the parliamentary group of our associates who are employed, and that they have a permanent working relationship. We have a lady who used to be the deputy secretary of the assembly, who was assigned to our parliamentary group and who is in a permanent working relationship, who is a counselor, because she is a graduate lawyer. Our other co-workers and a gentleman working in the quota of what Mr. Licina, the quota of the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has been working people for six plus six months. They're down. When they have such low and poor salaries, here is a minimum of 16,000, I don't know if anyone can boast that they have more than 20,000, let's just say, depending on how many years they're in. Because they don't even have a solution to their status, the ems are disproved by law and by these members, they can't use all the other rights that some of their other colleagues can. You have to start from the fact that their salaries are poor and poor, that they are over-indebted and that they have to go into some process with some bank, because you see how far you've brought Serbian citizens with your economic policy. Because of the lack of opportunity for people to survive and take some chalk. Who's going to approve of them when they're working for a certain time, for six months. Radeta's colleague mentioned a fair solution that was valid until you introduced this law and until in another way limited local self-government, and that our party had taken over power in the municipality of Zemun in 1996, we introduced such pay classes in the range of 1:3, so let's say at that time the porter, the courier, the official in SO Zemun had a salary like now to have about 30 and 30 and more thousands of dinars, and the maximum president of the municipality, the secretary, etc. Here reminds me of my colleague, it was our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who did not receive the salary, and everyone else with the highest office could only have three times as many. Wasn't there a more rational and meaningful solution to be arranged in the state so as to know what the salary is from one to the upper limit of the pay grade of the one and the officials and officials and to make what would be the most just. So, Mr. Novakovic, I can tell you this further, I can think that you're going to be in some part and agree, even though you can't say it in the microphone. Mr. Secretary has an opinion or already some plan on how he's going to make a systemization. Take care that we are going to protest until the end when it comes to all these people who work here day and night, and I am talking exclusively about the Assembly, because I have been here for 15 years as a MP, because they have been disproved by this law, and especially by this member, they will be in an even more difficult position throughout the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48869	Nine minutes and 10 seconds of Parliament time. Otherwise, I have no problem agreeing with you or disagreeing with you when I disagree, or when I agree. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48870	Mr. Novakovic, I don't know if you were joking when you just warned the government's representatives that because of their absence, it could be a matter of budget voting, although the deadline for the budget to be voted is behind us. If, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you moved not only today but also the previous days of the session, because the minister is not in an OR, or a representative of the government, then I don't see where you found the basis now that we can discuss our amendments in the Minister's absence. Of course, we do not expect the minister to accept our amendments, because if he had thought he would have done so at the cabinet session, so we would not have received answers to all amendments identical to the government's proposals being more comprehensive. We, above all, address the public, but I warn you to agree, you who are holding a session, whether we are working in the absence of a minister or exclusively in the presence of a minister, as our Rules of Procedure requires. Of course, I didn't point this out as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but only by the way, because there's no point, you already have premeditated that the Rules of Procedure is not injured, when it's obvious, as it is now. We are talking about an amendment to Article 27 of the basic law, where we have suggested that overtime cannot be longer than 60 days in one calendar year. The government's proposal is that it's 90 days. We believe that our amendment introduces order and avoid abuses in the application of law in the authorities of the government. I'm sure we're right and that's how it is. If someone needs to have an organ, they need to work overtime for 90 days in the calendar year, then they need to think about the need for someone to work all the time. We therefore suggested that it be 60 days, as a more appropriate deadline, because we know that there are services where it is really necessary to work overtime and, above all, they are services in the Serbian Parliament. No other state body does this kind of work, as the Assembly does. All have some working hours that are approximately in line with working hours and employees, or officials in those government bodies. Of course, I did not now think that I had no objection to the work of the congregation in that sense, but rather to the objection to the overtime of the congregation employees. You are, the minister is not here again, I also spoke in the principle debate, here and now, and at least the secretary is present, so this is a good deed to him and it's good to hear. The employees of the National Assembly and I am now talking about those who work in the SRS parliamentary group, because I know it reliably, are not in a permanent working relationship, and we believe that this is also discrimination, that they have been working for years without being in a permanent working relationship. You've heard they can't get any credits, etc. What is a matter directly for the secretary, through the absent secretary, since the secretary cannot participate in the debate, why these employees did not receive 5,000 dinars of assistance, since they meet the conditions when it comes to their profits, as they have all received from the state authorities. What kind of discrimination is that if we know, and the secretary is a lawyer, so you should know that the Labour Act is absolutely and by rights and obligations and responsibilities equalising employees to certain and indefinite times. Who is it that has made such discrimination among the employees of the Republika Srpska Assembly? It's probably in other state organs, but I'm saying what we know is absolutely true. We also know that the tenants in the Serbian Parliament, in most of them, get this fee that the law allows, which is about 50% of their salary, monthly and we know that most of it gets, but also employees in our parliamentary group have not received it for a month. It's impossible that only they didn't earn it, and we claim they did. I don't know why you're nodding your head when what I'm saying is absolutely true. A question for the minister, because he was against this law when it was passed in 2006 – why did he not change this relationship between old and new officials, so-called? We have a situation where, for example, in the same office, two people are sitting in the same office, one is employed by 2006, and the other is employed after 2006, absolutely the same job, the one employed by 2006 has a salary of about thirty and some thousand, and the one who is employed after 2006 has a salary of around 20,000 dinars. That's really amazing. Unfortunately, no one thought to make it right either. Or, you have that in the same office, you have that in the Assembly, and certainly in other public services, sitting down as a tenant and a clerk and doing absolutely the same jobs. Which one's a tenant, which is an official, it's someone's idea to put that pacifist term in the state's organs and someone's got this. The one who works as a tenant works for 11,000 dinars, and the one who works as a clerk works for 20,000 dinars. Of course, grief both of them, but it's amazing that they're doing the same job and someone's thinking that someone's called a tenant, an officer, and they have such a drastic difference in profit. So, all of these are the anomalies of this law and what was expected, first of all, of this minister and of the government, is that if they wanted to change something to change the whole law, because this law is basically bad. This is one of the most generous laws passed in this House. We Serbian radicals all the things we said then speak now. It is interesting that Minister Markovic, who raced with us who would sooner arrive at a pay phone in that assembly hall there, and the night we talked about this law, that now everything in this law is fine, only now to see how many overtime working days can be employed in one state body during one year. The government of Serbia's accession to this law is a disastrous, only marketing trick so that you from the regime can brag about how you treat yourself as a socially responsible government, so you'll help those with the lowest earnings, and what with some small increase, which they'll get, which is already after the new year, disaster that they won't be able to even the most basic need to reconcile with it, you don't talk about it. Don't talk, but the media are warning us what's going to come after January 1st. He won't be able to live with the salary received by the president of the state, let alone by tenants and civil servants, especially the ones with the lowest wages. That really is a big problem. Of course, the biggest problem in this country is the daily cancellations, thousands of cancellations every day, the fact that nothing lives in Serbia except the state authorities. Probably, when we talk about government officials, we anger those who have no business, but have no reason to be angry with us, but to be angry with you who in the last ten years have left millions of people out of work in Serbia, who have closed the gates of all factories, all industrial plants. What's he doing in Serbia today, besides the megamarket? Nothing. It doesn't work, and then you spill that you're socially responsible government, you're out of the regime, and you're gonna help this or that, and then you're gonna make 90 days in the state authorities overtime, and then you're gonna fire some of them that you find out aren't party-like, and then, as you're already doing, you're gonna fire one because they're not party-friendly to you. Others are working on a work contract, if the minister were there, we'd ask him to answer how many of you have hired party listeners and party activists in all state bodies, and how many people have been fired or feared because you threaten to fire them every day? So, gentlemen, that's why the minister doesn't sit here, because he'd have to answer these questions or at least tell us he doesn't know. We already know the answer. The minister's answer would be that in a ministry in which he is an elder does not have that kind of problem, because he does not fire, he has kept some people who were earlier in the ministry, who belonged to some other parties etc, but the Minister of State Administration and local self-government has responsibility for functioning the entire state administration and all local self-government in Serbia. Obviously, that's not the case. In fact, there is not only this minister, now absent, such a relationship, such a relationship with everyone in this country, towards all citizens of Serbia, such a humiliating, non-substantiating relationship has the entire regime of Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48871	12 minutes of MP time was used. Confirmation of the mandate to the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the conditions have been met, I propose that I establish my mandate to the MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal from the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dejan Pisarevic, elected from the SPS – PUPS – JS. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dejan Pisarevic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. The time of the SRS parliamentary group is 39 minutes and 15 seconds. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48872	This amendment follows these previous amendments submitted by the SRS to Article 2. Proposal for a law, which changes practically Article 27 of the basic text. In order to simply understand what I'm proposing to change, it's not just a change from 26% to 30%, I think it should explain what it's about. You see, according to regulations that we say are general labour regulations and working relationships, overtime can last eight hours a week, and for the longest four hours a day. You have heard in previous explanations of the previous amendments that in this Article 2 it is proposed in paragraph 3 that when it comes to civil servants it is 20 hours a week. So, maximum daily reduced to maximum or turbo maximum or illegal maximum in a week, which can be said to be illegal, is a non-compliance with the law that obliges. The regulations allow for some exceptions, but this is not about the situation, that there is some exception. The exception is not limited and nothing has been proven to justify it. That's the thing. The payment of increased earnings based on overtime here is given as literally a different option, because in previous attitudes it is said for every hour of overtime is given an hour and a half of free time. If someone said an hour-and-a-half free time for an hour of increased work, then he's 50% ahead of schedule that 50% should be higher. So the hour of work is equal to an hour and a half. That's the logic of the proposal. This logic is not followed by the suggestor to the site. So, in this attitude of 5, we're talking about an increase in pay, where the government proposes it to be 26% and, of course, they're probably calling for a general labour regulation, where it's exactly 26%, and we're proposing, by amendment, that 26% be 30%. But every day, we are increasingly aware of the situation that it's not only important to pass laws, and it doesn't matter if we swear here, and we love civil servants, and we love the tenants, and we take care of them, and tomorrow we take care of the employees, or the unemployed, and here, from time to time, someone bleeds, promising pre-accession funds and all kinds of things, and in practice there isn't. Our laws don't generally apply. They're selectively applied and there's a reason why that's the case. When society is criminalized to these proportions, don't look at me, that's what your friends from abroad say, those who give you money, and they say you've made a criminalized society. When you look at these oligarchs and organised crime leaders who publicly via television accuse each other of who has done more, who has put more civil servants in, the tenants, and include this information about foreign intelligence services that say how many of their youngsters they have inserted in, so here we have the European Movement here, some performance, praises Žika Bambus and Ksenija Milivojevic, who is a state official and who has sued the state. It's only in Serbia, nowhere else. Where else is that on the globe? Only in Dosmanlic Serbia, where you don't know what the system of values is. And if I were to prove analytically to you here why 26% of the general regulations in civil servants should be 30% I'd be funny to the citizens of RS, because first they'd say - aman, Krasic, what you do, you talk to the wall, they have 126. This is most important for the functioning of the political system in Serbia. Now you see him, you don't see him. Now he's 128, now he's 131, as if on tape he's changing. The people want it, the people love it. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that you do not go a little too far because your system may fail. Your system is dropping, as I can see, I don't know what it is, whether they're Dulic's computers, if they're Micun's counting system. Speaking of this amendment, let me tell you, according to the general rules, there's a lot of work to be done and there's work to be done. It's a basic profit, part of profit for labour and increased earnings, no matter what the basis. Excessive work draws increased profits. That logic is also present in the regulation that regulates salaries of held officials and deputies, however, in a slightly modified manner. Such a formulation by Article 27 shall deviate from the basic principles. Why is he departing from basic principles? Today, some examples have been used to suggest that it is inevitable that man must remain at work, if he is a civil servant or a substitute, because he is not dependent on him, depends on more force, but the higher power is not, Mr. Novakovic, the earthquake, the snow, the flood than Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Gordana Comic, Hope Kolundžija and the resistance that controls DS. Mr. Novakovic, I'm not going to read a member of the Constitution, because then you punish me, not you, but those of your predecessors. Read what it says in Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't open a debate about the draft budget law, it has to be 15 days to cramp with MPs. Dear citizens, look, this is the draft law on the 2011 RS budget. If this were a book from which to take an exam, the student would probably have to read for a year, but here are the geniuses, 126 geniuses, the Martians. It's due today, it's scheduled, it's going into debate tomorrow. Heroic, heroically silent to the last living room. Shut up, they won't move. The only ideologist, that's the one that's gonna show up. You're all set. You don't write amendments, you don't know what the amendment is. If we need to write an amendment, we need to stay, chase around the National Assembly in order to, if we can, amend something a little bit and provide some media space in Serbia, to hear that Vojislav Seselj, who is still alive, to fight to stop his killing in The Hague, to fight to stop killing all RS citizens, because the traces of your good work – "the fall system". Why won't you listen, listen? Let's move on. Let's see what your auditors wrote a few days ago about this article. On the occasion of this member, Mr. Novakovicu – increased payment due to overtime. Here's what the auditor says, based on all the preliminary arrangements, the controls, the clearing, the arrangements with the government, and on the basis of the draft, not the draft budget bill. Mr. Novakovic, page 4. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management... (President: I apologize, Mr. Krasic, it is not about this article, because this article has not come into force, so I ask you not to lead us all astray. So, the auditor's report is last year, and your amendment's proposal to replace a percentage of 26 percent of 30 is on the agenda now. It is, and now I'm telling you the reasons. You don't read, that's the problem. It's quick for you to split the money as soon as possible, and I have to read everything. Look, I'm gonna read this one diagonally all night. The need to protect the people is limitless, there is no discount, there is no deviation. (President: We will agree to the same extent as the need for respect for the Rules of Procedure, our common one. ) If a contract is concluded on the part of the person responsible for the activities of the ministry, then these are the jobs of the ministry. We have a minister who closes the deal, like it's a singer. So, singers, musicians, painters, doing government work, doing the jobs that civil servants should do. That's what your auditor wrote. See what else he says, and it has to do with Article 2. It's a bill of law. It says so - which is not in line with the provisions of the Labour Act, the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on Ministry in total value of seven million. The plant administration, same million and a half, the Ministry of Science, that's the one, let's-let's, he made 14.6 million dinars non-intentional. What am I to say now, Mr. Novakovic, about this law here, whose fate are we to complain about, how do we swear to make this go away, that this will be written properly, that it will be applied properly? You swore here in 2009. What do we hear now? Your system's down. And the system is here, Mr. Novakovic, and here's the system. See what the auditor says – the Ministry of Agriculture has taken over the obligation, concluded a contract on the introduction of an information system for the implementation of agrarian and rural policies for the needs of the Agency for Agricultural Payments, 115 million dinars. It's probably Dulic's computers. He's the only one who makes computers. There are no more Microsofts, but Dulicsofts. There isn't. That's forbidden. He's when Sonja Licht. Why are we making the laws? Explain to me. Why are we wasting our time here? We need a cop. We need armored units. We need a cavalry to join the state service. (President: Of course, don't exaggerate. We don't need state services... I'm sorry, if you're teaching your child not to lie, don't act any different here. (President: The Cavalry is a state service and does not stand outside the system. The system is thank God alive and well, and I beg you and repeat, your amendment applies to this difference, so please come back. Believe me, it's gonna get harder for you. I know it's hard for you to get inside your head, but I want to convince the citizens not to believe... (President: The purpose of the amendments you have submitted, I repeat, by changing the percentage of 26 per cent of 30 in Article 27) In order for the whole of Serbia not to become a social case, I have submitted this amendment and risked the broad masses not to understand me, simply, they can't understand me, because you don't let me explain to people that one thing is said, one thing works, and in the end it turns out to be quite a third. Here, we were just telling you, Mr. Milan Markovic bled in 2006 in that building against the law that Balinovac passed. Now he's on fire. His system went down, not immune, but, no, that system doesn't exist, the Dosmanli system is -- take, grab, blink, take everything that life gives you. It doesn't matter the form, it doesn't matter the means, it doesn't matter the ways. Everything can – from one office to another office, laws are applied differently. That's what Miss Jovanovic told you about, and that's what Verse Radeta told you about. That's what everyone can tell you. We don't need laws at all. This is Texas, here's the principle - who's stronger. Who's stronger? The one with 126. When you've got 126, you can do anything, and your system goes down, you're going to manually count and your system doesn't fall, you can do anything. Can this law be corrected if you adopt this amendment? He can't. What can happen after the adoption of any text of amendments to this law? A disaster even bigger. I don't regret that you're going to scare those of you in the state service, and you've drawn them all you want, you've put them on for the past 10 years, you don't know it yourself. I know they're ballast, they've been expecting a lot more, so there's no such thing. You heard earlier, and for example, you're funding the IMF secretary. On what grounds? You think this people will put up with anything. He'll suffer until this winter is over, and then what do we do? Polish works? Take care. Your system's down.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48873	The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government accepted an amendment tabled by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia, and did not accept the amendment of MP Milisav Petronivic. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted an amendment tabled in the same text by a group of 22 MPs from the ruling group, Serbia and MP Milisav Petronijevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 271 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly when considering all issues under its jurisdiction shall be borne by the Prime Minister. The government shall designate members of the Government representing it on a specific issue, which shall be held on the agenda of the National Assembly, or at the session of its committee. I would like to remind you, Mr. Novakovic, that today's session of the National Assembly began with two hours late, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has not authorised itself to send an authorised representative to the National Assembly session. After two hours, the Honorable Mr. Minister mildly chose to attend the National Assembly session, but after about half an hour he left the same and nearly an hour we have been discussing amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Salaries of State Officials and Deputys, and that an authorised representative of the Government is not present at the National Assembly session. The SRS asks you – is this a road mechanism, supermarket, football stadium, cafe, restaurant, raft or is this the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in which everyone who participates in its work has equal rights and obligations defined by the Rules of Procedure? With what right does anyone who presides over the National Assembly have the right to say anything to any MP in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you are silent about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not only not respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but is doing everything to bring down the little dignity that the National Assembly has in the Serbian public? We ask you – where is the minister, when will he appear and why do you, as chairman, tolerate the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not respect us sitting here and you who are chairing the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48875	Thank you. I understand. The government has done everything provided for by a member of the Rules of Procedure that you have mentioned. The minister has the right to come out, like any MP. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48876	I am pleased by the adoption of the amendment to Article 3, which, I think, the government has lost all its will to apply this law, because I am inclined to believe that this amendment has actually discouraged the Government from being involved in the illegal transfer of funds to employees. I believe that it was not intended to reduce the range between lower categories of employees in the state administration and to reduce that range from 1:1.9 to 1:1.6. I'm surprised to see the ease of accepting this amendment. I find it necessary to explain the essence of our request. The law which was in the procedure concerned the salaries of civil servants and deputies, predicting all the other members of the law, we submitted an amendment, which essentially allowed civil servants in office, who are otherwise competent under the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants to regulate their working hours, to coordinate their work within the State Authority. These laws now delete their earlier restrictions so that they can enjoy supplements based on the time spent in a working relationship. This kind of raving interpretation was nevertheless a restriction on the possibility that they use the Institute of Excessive Work because they are not effectively able to organise the work of the state administration. That is why I am pleased to say that the amendment has been adopted, but I must say what was the danger that the proposal for a solution that the government has made has remained in law. The simplest said - 1.6 billion dinars proposed in order to balance the ranges and those who receive the least, that they are now more justly paid and could actually be used for overtime, which could also mean inefficient use of working hours and that is a way that every hour of overtime cannot be used as a free hour and a half, but that from 26% to it more than it costs to do, hours on a regular basis, it pays to someone who allegedly or really worked overtime. If we are in favour of employment, if we are in favour of a quality state administration, if we are in favour of young people who need to remain a quality state administration, so the only possibility is for those young people who are going to be referred first to the lowest jobs or giving them the opportunity to help those who really know how to work, to start focusing on the affairs of the state administration and within the deadlines prescribed by the law, is the possibility that some of the affairs of the state administration will be carried out within 90 days. The explanation I gave on behalf of the Progressive Group for Serbia was slightly affected by the lack of the secretary of the ministry's budget, and should be paid by those who work overtime on the budget. Well, will anyone believe any of the citizens, if you tell them the secretary of the ministry is working on the budget? Well, I guess they give instructions on what needs to be done, and that job that takes time, which requires a physical input or their change, checks the texts and documents, it's not that high-shrewd, creative job that can't be entrusted to someone who first does that job on the budget. So, in order for someone to learn a job, he has to do it for the first time. These are not tasks that are a matter of natural intelligence, the affairs of the state administration are learnt by working, not by deciding on them, but by working alongside those who create the affairs of the state administration. It is therefore important that this amendment is adopted and that it will leave room for some excellent students, valuable, working, interested in work in the state administration to be engaged through increased workloads and to have the opportunity to get acquainted with the affairs of the state administration through occasional employment contracts or occasional jobs. What is the thing to think about at this point is whether we should be left with this Law on State Administration which defines that you have state secretaries who are chosen in the same way as the secretaries of the ministries and in the same way as the assistant ministers, so the minister proposes them, the government chooses them, and for one you don't have a five-year deadline that you prescribe for ministerial assistants and state secretaries. There is no real difference between what is your professionalization of the state administration and what is political baggage in the state administration. State secretaries, who, according to our record, are counting as much as on your vote, physically counting from websites, for 24 ministries from which we could reach data for 21, you have 56 state secretaries who are in the state administration as well as the minister, who are not elected for five years and who have no right to decide on behalf of the ministers, which says one Constitutional Court ruling when a disputed solution signed by the State Secretary on behalf of the Minister, which in fact proves that the State Secretary, means 56 of them, and there are more for 24 ministries, are ballast state administrations, are the price of government and coalition which currently does not understand how hard it is to earn in this Serbia to settle all coalition partners, all the merited party staff or those who need to do business instead of ministers. So, if we are talking about the quality state administration building by paying as much as possible in the economic strength of the state, by the economic strength of the economy that fills the budget, by the economic strength of the citizens who are to be paid into the funds where employees are actually paid, we need to seriously consider who is doing the work of the state administration. I expect that when the agenda for the budget is set for the other day and the accompanying laws that you really take very seriously into consideration and the three draft laws that we have given, about reducing the number of ministries not physically but essentially and reducing the number of what is called state officials in the position, which are secretaries of ministries, assistants, but also the countless directors and deputy directors of agencies, which, in principle, the minister agreed with me, should be limited in terms of handing over public powers to those agencies, because it is the job of the state, but it is not the goal of just agreeing to talk and to come up with the same attitude, the aim is to come up with a common solution, which means amending laws that will mean a cheaper and more efficient state. This is just part of the changes you've been making. Serious amendments to the Law on State Administration, and quality state administration and cheaper state are the goal of all of us, just require serious work and do not at the same time say that the election year is far away, in 2012, that it is time to work, and that you do this, half-, unfinished, only wanting to piece by piece of what is wrong with some law to solve. I have one remark that is a formal type, and I couldn't say it's just a formal one. I don't see any reason why the Government in adopting the amendments that we have submitted at the same time refuses the amendment of a colleague who filed it in the same text. I felt uncomfortable because tomorrow as an MP, they can be found in this subordinate situation where the same text is treated differently. Thus, it is appropriate to accept the committee's behaviour that deleted Article 3 in the same text by the parliamentary group Forward Serbia and refused from colleagues from the second parliamentary group. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you have both the courage and the desire to cooperate, but we are just about to have a job to reduce the state administration and create a quality state administration, and if I can commend something, I will personally commend you. The explanation you have written that the amendment is accepted for reasons given in the explanation of the amendments says a lot about your personal human honor and I expect your parliamentary group to continue the talks as well when we determine the agenda for reducing the state administration, because it is not our goal that this government does not work and that the state does not work, but that this country works in the best possible way and as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48877	An 11-minute mandated representative has been used. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48878	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, you just said something that is objective. Ministers here have certain rights, but they also have certain obligations. Mr. Markovic is not very inclined to respect and carry out his duties so much. The right not only to use them but also to abuse them, and it is not only promoted through his presence in the O.R. or not in the O.R. It is also promoted through his address to the MPs, by writing arguments on the amendments to the SRS that we have submitted to the text of the law. I reported for the fact that I pointed out this, what I'm about to say, which is about the amendment, and also something why Mr. Minister didn't have a chance to hear me last time the principle debate was under way. He gave a very colossal finding and a statement that could have led the public astray. I personally want to inform Mr. Secretary that he has abused the truth. The gentleman sitting next to him heard it. I don't know if he passed it on to him, I don't want to doubt it, but we're gonna touch that, too. Mr. Minister, this non-sharp is not unacceptable, but it can be done past this hall and beyond the work you're doing today on behalf of the government. You don't get a rare chance to act like a citizen group minister here. I will remind you that you are the Minister of State and that you can disagree with the fact that there are public agencies and the fact that the concept of reform of the state administration is contrary to what you stand for. You may be opposed to the proposals of individual fellow ministers, but you cannot be fenced by the government you are sitting in, the policy you are conducting. You're part of that mile. If you remember, you remembered too late. If you want to fence yourself from all of this, resign, because of the policy you're building that this country is run and managed by citizens and all of us sitting here, and God damn it, we don't all have much use for each other together. My question for you when it comes to this amendment and the explanation is why your proposal is more comprehensive, why is this our proposal not comprehensive enough or what is it in this amendment to Mr Martinovic which is unacceptable to you in this way? You could at least explain why it's illogical, what did we suggest so bad? We have suggested that those to whom the amendments and amendments to the laws apply, who are in a miserable position thanks to the government's policy, have slightly higher incomes than you have defined. These are the people who are with us from morning to night. These are people whose work and engagement ensure the functioning of every segment of the work of this assembly, the government of the RS and the entire state administration. Do you, Mr. Minister, want to reform the state administration by having someone who has received 16 thousand receive 18 or 19 thousand dinars? Is this a model to offer Serbian citizens an efficient state administration? Of course not. Is that a model to provide them with economic existence? Is it a social component or a social responsibility promotion, as the RS government likes to say, expressed in this law, which someone will receive instead of 16,000 19,000 dinars? That's why we suggested this increase, not great. We haven't heard in the principle debate, we haven't heard today from a billion and six for this increase that your government is predicting? We got the budget yesterday. It's a disaster. While Prime Minister Cvetkovic deceives us to go into a new growth model that involves saving and export, we increase public spending. I ask you, will this increase that you have predicted, which is less than what we propose, will it come out to these same citizens and workers in the state administration in January? Will he? Shut up. No one knows where a billion and a sixth came from. When you've already found a billion and six, find a billion and eight hundred or nine hundred. Do you know what you're all about in the 2011 budget and what all the money is about? Mr Krasic said earlier that four billion dinars in the DRI report have been silent in the agriculture ministry to return through loans from the Development Fund to the ministry. You can't define 100 or 200 million more on people who depend in administrative and technical terms and organization in the state administration. You're selling the fog on social responsibility. You have an inefficient state administration. That's what I was talking about last time, and I'm talking about now. I must and it is my duty to tell you, Mr. Minister, again, that you deceived the public when you said that I was with a colleague from your party at your office looking for something. I was, but on a completely different basis and a different reason, and I invited a colleague sitting next to you to go to the ministry and open the case and the papers and see if I and this fellow MP demanded the same thing, and after two years and a few days after that debate, the inefficient state administration managed to deal with one problem. I'm telling you it's not. Absolutely no state body can solve the problem that exists and has been present for two years, from the Constitutional Court to the Ministry of Trade, State Administration, Finance, etc. For you it's all in the same basket, we were. We were, yeah. What else do we have to do to get the state administration to be effective on one small case? Only birds know that. You're calling for an explanation that yours is more cellular. Why is it more celery? For what? We think these people who work at the state administration should have a slightly higher salary than what you predicted. Of course, in a situation where we are, in which the state you are in your irresponsibleness, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has brought, we really believe that this much more can be singled out in a bunch of pointless spending pairs on who knows what and how, on regulations, that is, the shipping survey directorates give millions, and you can't give for workers in the state administration. In the last year, you provided for a census on the name of that state school, a regional school on the state administration, so you only identified nearly five million dinars in the budget for the course of this year because of that unreasonable move. When you ask for an increase in workers in the state administration, to have something a little more, you say it's not good and that your solution is more cellular. I don't think the Assembly deserved such an argument. If nothing else, at least you've been obliged to explain why it's more cellular of you, and why our solution is not complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48879	Eight minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Since this is about an amendment that is the last in a row, I ask if anyone else wants to exercise their right to the right of the parliamentary group? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48880	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, which he spoke of earlier, is in favour of what we talked about on the draft of this law and in the principle debate today when it comes to details. The fact is that the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants, as the government tried to fix it, will not bring any good, and that there will also be major problems in the application of this law as well as so far. The point is, you weren't the ministers when we talked, about that absolutely bad law in its own right and when the law was passed that opinion we shared. At that time, you, like us, thought it was a bad law and made a large number of objections to the law, and in 2006. In the meantime, that law hasn't changed, but it seems that you have changed, or changed your mind about the law, and that's why you haven't offered us a whole new text of the law. With these changes, this makeup and similar changes, you will do nothing in essence when it comes to the salaries of civil servants and tenants. This is one of the laws that has been passed in order, as we did some time ago, as you did a while ago, also passed the Law on the reduction of the number of employees in both state authorities and local self-governments. What's the matter with the law? Nothing. There was nothing. We were also against the law when you passed it, and we warned you that these laws were not good, given all the overall state of affairs in the state. You were determined to pass the law and MPs of the assembly majority voted both of those laws, but of course, since the law was applied, there is nothing. On the contrary, in the state administration, in local self-government, there are more employees today than there were at the time when we discussed these laws on the reduction of the number of employees in both the state administration and local self-government. I suppose the ministers have the exact details of how much more employees are, and they're employed by a contract on the part, and that's what you've left for yourself as a possibility in laws, that we remind ourselves all together, that you've left the possibility in both law and law that you can hire both in state authorities and in local self-governments up to 10% of new people, and of course you'll quit on those who, first of all, and, in fact, are not responding for political reasons. Other people are also employed for political reasons. They're employed by labour contracts, and they're employed in almost all state bodies. In your ministry, I don't know. You will probably say that there is no such thing in your ministry, but I warn you in advance, you have a responsibility and responsibility to everyone, according to the entire state administration and local self-government, because you are the Minister of State and local self-government. As a result of you persistently increasing the number of employees in the state administration, you cannot pay even close to a decent profit to those who already work in state authorities. Of course, first of all, I think of people with very low profits. I don't mean those who have enormously high wages, and they're employed by state authorities. That's the question we asked you in the principle debate, and today, at the beginning of the principle debate. We didn't get an answer - what are the criteria, based on the criteria of someone employed by the state administration can have a higher salary, I don't know, three times from someone who's his manager, who's an elder of that state authority? Of course, what Krasic said earlier was that this law is applied differently in different offices. In one office, the law is applied this way, in another office in another way. In one office, you place a man you call a tenant and another a civil servant. They do the same job, but with a different salary, ranging from about 10,000 dinars. By not accepting amendments to the SRS, you have not improved the text of this law and you have not created conditions for this law to be applied, whatever it is, but to be applied without the possibility of abuse. Among other things, our intention was just to draw your attention to the fact that by accepting our amendment, you could create conditions for not having an elder of an organ whose mind comes to mind for these or those reasons, to chit-chat people, to give this person such a salary, to admit to this one the overtime work, and not to admit, that an estimate of what kind of work may be overtime, which cannot, and therefore, does not ask the one who remains working, whether he wants to stay working overtime, but has to stay working overtime. Can't employees at the National Assembly, especially employees who are involved in parliamentary groups, go home when their regular working hours are over. They didn't want to, I can't. I can't because the Assembly is working, because MPs are here most often until late evening classes, and they still have to come to work in the morning when their hours start. They shouldn't be held accountable because, say, the Assembly starts working two hours late compared to the scheduled term, because either the ruling majority doesn't have a quorum like Friday, or there's no government representatives like today. These employees must bear the consequences of such an irresponsible relationship with the representatives of the regime, because they must be in their place of work, they must work, and then it depends on whether the overtime will be recognised or not. The secretary then says -- you're a member of the SRS, probably if you work in the SRS parliamentary group. You can't get overtime because you stayed behind to help write the amendments, because, of course, the amendments submitted by the SRS bother you. Our amendments are the only thing that bothers you that you can finish anything you put on the agenda on the same day. You can't, you know, when you connect to one point of five, 15, 20, you don't even know how many individual points of the agenda. When we welcome you to the amendment, you must at least respect that fact that any MP can speak after those two minutes of the amendment he has submitted. Of course, instead of having a total time per 10 hours per law, you are denying us because you are doing the opposite of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure you determine and propose the agenda. Of course, we're talking about... (President: Please do not deceive the public or expose the truth. Nothing has been done during today’s work past the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please take care of the responsibility for the public word. Go on. ) Thank you very much. I'm very responsible, and I answer every word I say. You weren't here when the minister wasn't in the O.R. for an hour and a half, and you can't convince us it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But, well, you have your... (President: I now warn you to make sure that each of us is responsible for what he says. The minister must be at the beginning and is obliged to attend parliamentary practices during the debate in principle and in particular. Parliamentary practices, I repeat, if we read the Rules of Procedure carefully. The minister, like any other participant in the session, has the right to occasionally leave the sitting room for talks with other MPs, for media talks, for other activities he conducts inside the building. I ask you not to be false and to lead astray all those who follow this transmission. ) Mrs. Comić, most beautiful please, what you just paraphrased that when I finish my exposure to teach us because none of us know it. Where does it say?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48881	I'm warning you twice now. So, if you know the Rules of Procedure, as you claim, but it doesn't look like you speak, then you know that the chairman is obliged to take care of order at the Assembly during the session of the National Assembly. You're telling the truth. You lead the public astray and abuse the right to a public word. The responsibility for the public word is something we build together. I can tell you again what I said, that in the Rules of Procedure there is not what you claim to be injured and that good parliamentary practice by common forces has been established that the minister is present and can be absent as any other participant of the session. You've used seven and a half minutes of the time available to you. Please sign in. You may proceed until you make full use of the MP group's time. You have nine minutes and 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48882	It is absolutely true that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will not introduce order into this area, on the contrary, will all be the opposite. Also, the proposal for this law does not meet those objectives that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has cited to us in the draft law, in the light of the proposal. The government said that, according to the concept of the Law on Civil Servants, the salaries of civil servants and deputies reflect on the one hand the complexity and responsibility of the jobs being done, on the other hand, the salaries of civil servants reflect the results of the work through the system of progress with the pay grade in the same job. So both are absolutely incorrect and that's what we're trying to explain to you and prove in principle today. We assure you that for the same job people are paid differently, so, absolutely the same working conditions, the same jobs are done, but the difference between some so-called. old officials and so on. New employees, as well as the difference between the tenants and the employees. The claim that you've made here, that you're correcting it with this law, you've just written in an explanation, and in fact no member of this law that you've proposed contains. I'm sorry to offend you with the truth, but the truth is what Serbian radicals tell you. It's also absolutely true that this law doesn't meet this other so-called. the social role of social character, as you wrote here, because it provides economic existence to employees of state authorities. Who can claim that the economic existence of an employee, someone who works for 11,000 dinars, and who will do 16,000 dinars under the new law? Who in the state of Serbia is existentially provided if it works for 16,000 dinars, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the regime? It is also incorrect what you claim, that this law gives the possibility of progressing with the coefficient that it should be stimulating enough for all civil servants. We asked the minister in the afternoon section, here, we'll ask him again – what pay grade will this lady paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who works for the IMF officials? Mr. Minister, it would be really good for you to hear this. You pretended not to hear it this morning, you pretended not to hear it now. I would like to draw your attention again and ask – which pay group will you place Mrs Desanko Nestorovic, who, as secretary, IMF official, is paid out of the state budget, paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and her salary is incredible 136,988 dinars? Give the answer to that question, Mr. Minister, and don't pretend not to listen as we speak. Since we know that you are not interested in such things, we are saying this primarily because of the public of Serbia. I again draw attention to Serbia's citizens that the text on all the bahanalia, when it comes to the IMF, is published in the latest issue of the SRS newspaper "Great Serbia" and that everyone can be informed, take this newspaper on our municipal committees and see how you waste money from Serbian citizens, gentlemen from Boris Tadic's regime. Be angry then, it bothers you when we're completely open about it. If we're wrong, here's a concrete example we've set, you specifically state - gentlemen radicals, don't deceive the public. But we're right. This is a drop in the sea from what you're actually doing and how you spend state money. That's what we'll talk about when we talk about, among other things, the budget. But today we're talking about a billion and 600 million that you're going to provide for government employees and how you're going to deploy them. Will this Nestorovic also receive 13,000 dinars a month again, and these employees who work day and night here in the Assembly – 16,000 dinars? Is that the social aspect of this law, Mr. Minister Markovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48883	Five minutes and 40 seconds and an additional eight, which means four minutes left to go. Minister Milan Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48884	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. Just because of the public, and maybe some MPs weren't there, so, at 12.00 hours, when the session was scheduled, I was present, sitting right where I'm sitting right now. So there's no dilemma that it's not my absence that the session didn't start at 12:00. Unfortunately, the amendments we in the ministry processed on December 17th, so, on Friday, for reasons I don't know, the amendments came, as I heard, the same time I did. It's already something that's a question for another address, certainly not a question for me. So, just for the public's sake, it doesn't turn out I didn't show up at 12:00, when it was scheduled. So I came here, I was present, but there were no conditions for work. For the absence of conditions, the responsibility of the government is not borne by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48885	Anybody else answer for a word? The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. Time is available for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48886	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, these previous discussions could show which problems we have in the state administration. Unfortunately, this bill of law has given us another cosmetic law that won't change almost anything in this sphere. What is important is to stress that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not execute what are applicable legal acts in the Republic of Serbia. That's what I said in principle. I repeat, in 2004, the then government adopted the National Strategy for State Administration Reform. What defines this national strategy? It defines the basic course of development and reforming the state administration. What was done with that act? He was archived and no government, nor this government, took him into consideration, nor did he do anything in terms of the realization of everything that was written there. What's written there? What are the basic principles that the Government would have to advocate, which are set out in this act? This is decentralisation of the state administration, depolitisation, departementisation, modernisation of the work of the state administration, modernisation of the work of the state administration, etc. What's all this stuff done? The only thing made by the government, not just these, and especially these, the recruitment of party personnel. Instead of decommissioning the state administration, we're doing the reverse process. The data, which the opposition as crows spoke here in this House in 2000, in 7,800 workers in the state administration, in 2008, when this government was elected 2,800, now according to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government 28,400, was to be consistent with the applicable law. What the union says they're going out with 31,000 data, the law says, which we adopted last year at this time, 28,400 workers, is a maximum number in the state administration. Why isn't it 28,400? They're your favorites, you don't want to go into conflict with them, and then we hide, etc. This salad hall, which is called the 2008 Budget Proposal, generally had one of the data each year, which is the number of workers in the state administration, in the state administration. Now there's no such information. Why? You're hiding. You're hiding how many workers work in the state administration. It's even more tragic what I'm about to say here. These are the funds to be allocated to the state administration, excuse me, the state administration. Here, in 2005, 84 billion dinars, 2006 95 billion, 2007 153, 2008 176, 2009 188, 2010 182 billion, and according to the 2011 Budget Proposal, 196 billion. So, compared to 2005, that's an increase of 135%, if we compare that to subsidies for economy and agriculture, in 2005 about 600m euros, in 2010 380m. The opposite process, we don't invest in the economy, we don't give subsidies to the economy, we invest in the state administration. What's the reason? Why are you doing this? Because you're hiring your staff, your contemporaries. Today in the state service, no young expert can get a job unless he is a member of some of the ruling coalition’s parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48887	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word after the last amendment? If not, I'll conclude a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and detail and in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Protection Law (specificities) So, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Dušan Marić, Dušanka Plećić and Gordana Pleunović Milosavljevic. You received a report from the Health and Family Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To Article 1... People's MPs earn – we don't have the government's opinion! The Messengers of the people earn money, and now the other messengers of the people who say that these messengers who earn are showing. I ask the secretary, has a report been delivered to the MPs? I also ask other MPs, who also deserve not to point out, since the difference in the government's report is such that the government's report on the submitted amendments is a business obligation, while the presence of the Prime Minister is not a business obligation, it is a parliamentary practice, which was built by joint will and work of all opposition and ruling majority in the new assembly. So, Secretary, what report do we have? A government report has been distributed. People's MPs at the DSS don't have a government report, say they don't have any divisions. And SRS MPs claim that the report on the amendments submitted has not been shared. I ask the service to provide me with an expedition report, or a courier's report on the government's submission of the report on the amendments submitted, because the information I have that the amendments have been delivered and we'll check if that's not the case, there won't be any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Paja Momcilov and National MP Donka Banovic have been reported. Did you get the government's report? All three are together, all three reports are delivered together. Only one report you got? Just a report on psychoactive substances? People's MPs say they can't work and are right if they haven't received a report from the government and on amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. As far as I can understand it, you just got a report from the government on the amendments, I mean part of a psychoactive substance? Please consult the secretaries of your MPs' groups, the claims of expedition, the courier's service and the secretary general, that copies have been copied to the MPs' groups in A4 format for all three laws, i.e. the amendment report. If I have to check this moment, the government's opinion, once again, of the expedition report, the acts delivered by the government and the Secretary-General's report that it was delivered in this form by the government's report, which is respect for the Rules of Procedure's provision. I'm setting a five-minute break and I'm asking the Secretary-General to order the Secretary of Parliament's clubs to provide him with information on whether they've received a report from the Government on three laws and a joint principled search, including a report on amendments that have just been opened. The Secretary General's claim that copies of the report in this format were delivered to the MP clubs, one part was copied in a smaller format, the other part was not, but if delivered to the clubs, the Rules of Procedure was not injured. I'm asking the secretary to provide me with information. At 4:10 p.m., we'll continue our work. [[After breaks – 16.10]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Five minutes ago, I said the reports were delivered in this format: the Government's report on amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, the Government's report on the draft law supplementing the Health Workers' Chambers Act and the Government's report on the proposal for a bill on psycho-controlled substances. It's all seductive, expedition. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing our work. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Paja Momcilov and Donka Banovic are registered in the electronic system. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Do you want to? The MP notes that someone has provided him with two identical copies. I'll pass three different copies at your club, there's mistakes, there's no problem. I don't know if I need to show you one more time that there's a copy like this in each of the MPs' clubs. The MPs say he hasn't arrived. I can recommend two things. The first thing, that MP clubs inside themselves are a little better organized. The other thing is that the presidents of the parliamentary clubs address the secretary general about technical difficulties. Because by dates and stamps you have the materials. Do any of the reported, MP Milica Vojic Markovic and Paja Momcilov have been reported. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48889	It's not technical. I checked with the DSS Parliament Club. There's no such thing as a copy. So we're absolutely sure of what we're telling you. We got here today, now we've got the Health Protection Act and the government's opinion, and I guess this is an opinion of the chambers as well. So don't move things on to those who aren't guilty.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48890	People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48891	The Honorable Chairman, I just want to convince you, really, we didn't get this document that you're saying is directed to MP clubs, this moment I've got all the materials, so the government's opinion on the Health Protection Act and the Chamber Law, and before we've got the Law on Psychoactive Substances. Please don't let guilt be thrown at us and our impeccableness. We have been waiting for this session all day, and we insisted that our services be immediately delivered to us with all the materials, which can be easily checked. The truth is on the other side some time, not just yours. I ask you not to put us in an awkward situation, that we represent unserious people who are sloppy and do not refer to their parliamentary obligations in an adequate manner. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48892	If the draft law is opened in particular, whether it exists in a five-minute stenogram before the five-minute break, a sentence has been read – since the National Assembly carried out a principle search under Article 157(3). Do I open the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to search the draft law in particular? (Yes) Before we move on to the search in particular on a particular amendment, I remind the National Assembly that representatives of the 2, 3rd and 4th agenda are authorised, MP Nikola Krpic, MP Zlata Đeric, MP Nebojsa Rangelović, MP Zoran Bortic, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Milan Dimitrijevic of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Milet Poscurica MP, MP of the Serbian Parliament, MP Simo Vukovic, MP of the G17 Plus and MP of Gordana Pavnović Milosovljevic, the SRS parliamentary group. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48893	Ladies and gentlemen, we have touched this problem and in the principle debate in which we really wanted to define the methodology of a new approach to taking state exams. Of course, there is not much we can find on the site, but through the preparatory actions of different institutions that are involved there, and it seems to us that the most logical thing to do is to be included in this, according to the description of their responsibilities and the description of their work, the Medical Chamber and the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. This body is chosen by the Assembly, this is an independent body. One broad approach, which will guarantee the safety of future doctors, that their lives will not be further complicated after a complex educational process, which may well be fast, and we'll see how efficient it is, it's all just on the estimate, it's all new. The first generations of integrated studies have not come out and we don't even know the effectiveness, but we know that doctors will be waiting for you future, dentists, pharmacists at the very least for a more serious state exam. Many, already on the site, have serious problems with passing a state exam. If the criteria of what it will look like, whether it will contain this state exam, include the oral part, and a series of tests, how much of the law, the health legislation, are difficult to know. We are witnessing that children and in high school today are learning the constitution, therefore, something that practically through secondary education gets some levels of knowledge. What level and extent of prevention will be involved? We think that this should simply be done aside from the minister himself, from his employees, from his administration, to include a wider professional academic public, and it is best represented, of course, through the medical chamber and through the health council of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, both in the description of their responsibilities, and to propose legislative regulations and to improve the quality and conditions of study and the effectiveness of health care and the sustainable system, etc. It all seems that it may happen, if it comes to some of its unsuspecting and uncontrollable course, and in the image and work of someone's idea in their head, that children will be further dejected after all, let's say once or twice take a state exam, that after losing their right to ever pass it. You can hear ideas like that. I believe they're unusual, they're hasty, they're given in some cramp. They can't refer to people's names, and people like that exist, because they ex-officio don't represent anyone, they represent certain in-coherent or collective bodies in colleges, and, of course, as such, they're not enough to give us assurances that what we're talking about right now is that we are finally as a parliamentary group right and we want you to consider this amendment once again, even though you refused it on the board, so that eventually you accept it, because nothing will change it in the very sense of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48894	A minute and ten seconds of time for an authorised representative or a parliamentary group? An authorised representative? Yeah. Does anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia has submitted to the 2nd amendment with a correction. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48895	Again, the question is how and how will the criteria be established? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, Generally in our history of medicine, in the development of our health as a primarius really meant for institutions that are not at the level of educational academic institutions, they are not colleges, for environments where such people always meant prestigious calling and prestigious reach in education, in what people through their careers get – academically. They were therefore obliged to write a number of papers, to recognize their chamber, to excuse it in the branch of the SLD until the establishment of chambers, their branches as carriers of different thematic units. Often, they also made a significant contribution to scientific and professional approach to serious problems, which later even entered the guidebooks or national recommendations. Such people should continue to exist in environments where there are higher education institutions of medical professions. So we think that, in this way, perhaps by this change that we have proposed, the calling of the primarius, we should include the criteria that are being conditioned, which is prescribed, that the addition of the criteria should include the health care workers' chamber. So we have a correction of the amendment, you may have seen, where in the final text we think they should be chambers of health workers. So, both the pharmaceutical and the medical chamber, the biochemist chamber, the dentist and all those who can propose a candidate, or via the SLD or through the chamber, for calling the primarius, and for the rest of the text to remain the same. That'll go into the budget. It's gonna cost so much and so much. But to add criteria to the formation of attitudes, how much work is needed, what is needed to include the chamber of health workers of the appropriate profession. Because we're witnessing that otherwise, the criteria for the score, for staying in the profession, are likely to change more and more. The value of one point, which today may be about 3,000 dinars, will likely be higher and higher, the chamber will deal with it, and the health council will approve topics for education. For the past two years – a year of non-recognition of these points, which are obtained on KME, where we all worked, prepared for us, and for what we prepared, or for those who listened, went into the wind. So, one year's work meant for those who have come, but it's getting more and more implemented by the feeling that people are coming to score. The health care workers' chamber won't fund it, hospital directors won't finance it, health homes are getting harder, they're even disabled to finance candidates' participation. It's a very vague position, I mean the pharmaceutical houses, how to get involved in all of this, so that it should be careful there, both when forming criteria and assigning the primarius, not to make it difficult. There used to be local branches of the Serbian Doctor's Society that had traditional health days. The people who published their works there had a certain score of work, which used to be useful to us, who used to use scientific titles, had a certain weight. Today it seems to have changed quite a bit. What doesn't go through accreditation and gets points for KME, obviously it won't have any more meaning. If we include the primaries in this, then one of them may have to be active, give a lecture, not only have evidence of the presence of such professional gatherings. That's why I still think the chamber is on. I don't think that procedure would make it much simpler. We have now received a response from the Government, and I have not seen what the government says in response to this amendment, but I think the amendment involves the work of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48896	Two minutes have been used by an authorised representative. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48897	I just need to check, Madam Chairman, that's Article 2, right? Yeah. Thank you. In Article 2, the Proposer changed Article 189 in fact, and in attitude 3 changed it in this way – the minister prescribed closer terms, procedures and costs for obtaining the name primarius, the amount of compensation for the work of the reviewers, as well as other issues related to the process of obtaining the name primarius. The DSS intervened here in paragraph 3 by asking for the word "minister" to be changed, to actually have the opinion of the profession, to put here either the medical chamber or the Serbian medical society, believing it was much higher than that the minister prescribed. Simply, the minister has other powers and there is no reason to give him new powers. On the other hand, we have intervened in the new position of the 4th Article 189 – the funds achieved by the payment of the remuneration for obtaining the name primarius are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budgets, with a view to financing all costs related to the process of obtaining the name primarius. We felt that this position should be completely changed 4, and we changed it in the following way – the funds achieved by the remuneration for obtaining the name primarius are the revenues of the Serbian Doctor's Society's budgets with a view to financing all costs related to the process of obtaining the name primarius. In fact, our intensity was to involve the profession in this, believing that the minister should do other things and thus not be the funds of the budget, but that in this case they should be the funds or the Chamber of Doctors or the Serbian Medical Society. So, again, the opinion of the profession. What you did in this way, introducing and formally in the law of power of the minister to prescribe closer terms, ways, procedures and costs for obtaining the name primarius, plus to prescribe and compensation for members of the commission, is actually a real school example of centralization. So it's the minister who needs to ask about everything and everything, and those who are in the profession, who are supposed to defend the interests of their profession, have no way of showing their opinion in this. We believe that this should be changed, that it should not be a minister, but rather be a matter of profession, and that these funds are going into their budgets that are being received in this way, and not in budget funds. Furthermore, I was able to take a brief look at what the minister replied, which is why our amendment was not accepted. He is called here to take a look at what he explained to Mr Martinovic, and he explained: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the draft law has carried out the harmonisation of Article 179 or the provisions governing fees for passing professional examinations of healthcare professionals and health associates, for obtaining the name of the primarius, for carrying out the inspection procedure at the request of the party, with new regulations in the field of the budgetary system, or budget for the current year. "So he calls that the budget for next year is a document based on which the amendment is being rejected at this time. You like to call on reality, so I invite you to return to reality right now. We don't know if the budget will be adopted as planned or if you might know, Minister? It can't be something that we don't know when, there's a reason to refuse something that's written right now. We don't know how that's gonna happen. I'd like you to respect reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48898	A total of four minutes, so two minutes of MP time. Anyone else want a word? National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, at first I would like, on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, to express a protest over such unquality work. Is it a coincidence or the government's intention to disabling MPs that they can't adequately prepare for the amendments, because the government's opinion on the law today is the first on the agenda, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, we got in the session itself, in the debate in particular, and the government's opinion on the proposal for a bill on psychoactive substances, we got something before that. It becomes a rule and a way of working this government, not only for health laws but also for other laws. First, you refer the laws to the National Assembly by emergency procedure, and then, according to established practice, we had a united debate on the set of laws from the health sphere. So, of the three legislative proposals, two legislative proposals were amendments and additions to the law and one that I would say should be system law. We believe that in this way, the MPs are being brought into an unfortunate situation, that serious laws, which are important to the lives and health of Serbian citizens, especially young populations, are being considered in haste, back-to-back, as our people would say, so that we cannot do quality work in an adequate manner. It is unacceptable for frequent amendments to the legal provisions to try to maintain an unrealized and plotted health care policy. It is necessary to make serious changes to all provisions of the law that have not endured the test of time and real life. We want to point out the seriousness of the problems that arise in the National Assembly and also that they are no longer repeated. In the framework of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, I have spoken much more in principle, and I will only take a brief look back, later, within the framework of the amendment and I will talk about it. The Health Protection Act, as well as those adopted in 2005, as well as these amendments and additions to the law, did not make a fundamental change in terms of improving the organisation of health services, nor did you try to change these amendments and additions. The law did not regulate the place and role of primary health care, did not regulate the way in which the health system was established and functioning and did not provide mechanisms for the reorganisation of health centres towards improving health and disease prevention. And these changes and additions to these laws are filled with the powers of the Minister of Health. It's not a criticism personally of the health minister, but we'd like to point out something that we don't think should exist. In Article 1 It is the draft law of the minister who prescribes the programme, containing, manner, procedure and costs of passing a professional examination of healthcare professionals and health associates, then, the form, the assurance of a professional examination, determines the amount of compensation and the work of the members of the commission. We believe that this, apart from the minister, should also be done by other professional services located in the ministry, i.e. the ministry as a single system. Then, in Article 2, the minister prescribes closer conditions, ways, procedures and costs for obtaining the name primarius. Also, I don't think that's appropriate, as well as the amount of compensation for the reviewers' work. Which is why there are legal, financial and other services within ministries that I think are more competent than the minister that, at least in terms of the amount of compensation for the work of the reviewers, they should determine. What I think is very funny is that in Article 3, the minister prescribes the uniform of an inspector. I think the minister should do far more important things, not deal with such irrelevant areas as we have suggested in our amendments and be deleted. That is why we believe that, instead of deregulation and deberocracy, which is the general trend in the world, this bill is an example of the reverse process. That is why we and on this bill, as well as on the next draft law and on the proposal for a bill on psychoactive substances, have submitted a large number of amendments, as responsible MPs. We're sorry you didn't have enough hearing to accept some amendments. I think it's insufficient for these two that you've accepted, that we've read these laws very thoroughly and very seriously, and that these amendments are not only formally written but that they have some meaning. I'll talk about it later, in the light of the bill on psychoactive controlled substances. I especially think you should have respected those amendments. Then, as far as the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the chambers of health workers is concerned, we also disagree... (President: National MPs, the debate is a search in detail on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. When we do a search of the details of this law, we move on to the next one, so please, in accordance with the obligations of Article 106, use your time. I think I have the right as an authorised representative to talk within the time frame about all the laws. I think there's been a united debate in particular. (President: The Joint Principle Search, when the Assembly makes a decision on this, implies a decision on the total amount of time that the National Assembly will spend on the debate on laws. A search in particular must be carried out by law and any amendment by amendment. We are currently in search of the details of the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act. For all three laws in the search of details, you have the time available from the Rules of Procedure, which means 15 minutes. I'm just reminding you of the agenda obligation to talk. So far you have used six minutes of your total 15.) Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48900	Thank you. Six minutes of time-exploited representatives of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 22 MPs of the parliamentary group, Go ahead, Serbia and MP Dusan Maric, submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48901	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have proposed to delete this member of the bill that predicts that the health inspector has a uniform, a special uniform, a special formal wardrobe, and that the appearance of the uniform be prescribed by the minister. I suggested erasing because I think it's not crucial how a health inspector will be trained, but how he'll do his job. Personally, I believe that surveillance jobs will be more successful if they don't have a uniform, if it's less visible. The second reason I suggested erasing this article is because to get new service suits they need new money, and we don't have more money for and more important things. This poor thing we have can be spent both much smarter and more useful for health care. I believe that is what I said in the principle debate, that the postponement of the deadline within which the health care homes will pass into the jurisdiction of local self-government in many health homes will delay the resolution of the problems that exist and which make their work considerably difficult, and for which the Ministry of Health has not had enough hearing or not had enough money. There was no debate here in the area of health care that I did not mention the problem of functioning at home of health in the Great Plan and health stations in Lozovic and Milosevec, including in Stari Sel, Markovac and Krnjev, if it is due to the fact that the home of health is cubed with lack of doctors. The normal functioning of home health requires three general practitioners and one pediatrician, who would take care of the health care of children in Milosevic and Lozovic. It's about 600 children in total. For their engagement, the Serbian government should allocate about five million dinars. In the government, when we talk to the government's competent representatives, they generally argue that we are right, however, they explain that they do not have the necessary money to solve this problem. I mean, regardless of the economic crisis, the money to solve these problems has to be. I think there's one, but the problem is that it's often undomestic. Now I'm going to give an example, I'm going to make one parallel. On his recent visit to Svilajnc, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Bozidar Djelic, promised that the Republic would finance the construction of a natural centre in Svilajnc, a kind of history museum of evolution. According to the Minister, at the centre, children will also be able to play along with model monkeys, dinosaurs, mammoths and other species from the animal kingdom and learn the history of evolution. The minister said the construction of this natural centre would cost about 500 million and all the money would be paid by the Serbian government. Now I ask the question -- how is it possible that the Serbian government has 500 million dinars of budget funds, 500 million dinars of Serbian citizens to build a natural museum, to evoll the memory of dinosaurs and mammoths, and there are no five million dinars to hire the necessary doctors. There are 500 million dinars for mammoths and dinosaurs, and there are no five million dinars, 100 times less, for treating children. A very ugly message is being sent that the authorities in Belgrade are more important to entertain children in Svilajnc, located 20km from the Great Plana, from the health of children in the Great Plana, Lozovic and Milosevec. Half a year ago in the Home of Health in the Great Plan, we had another problem due to perseverance, due to years of age, a biochemical analyser broke down. It costs between 2.5 million and 3.5 million dinars, about 170 times less than the government has announced, as Vice President Djelic announced, to give for this natural museum, the Svilajnco Museum of Nonsense, but for its purchase the government had no money. They told us that there was no and for this reason the sick people of the Great Plan, including children, lasted several months, daily because of the most ordinary laboratory analysis to go to the neighboring Smederjevska Palanka and objectively expose themselves to both material costs and further endanger their impaired health. Until the municipalities and the health home of their poor girl managed to scrape those three million and buy this over the necessary apparatus. I'm just making one calculation, if this 500 million for this Djelic Museum of Nonsense in Svilajnc could be used for this purpose, to buy these biochemical analysts, it could buy 170 appliances, which would be enough to literally cover all of Serbia's health homes. Finally, a fundamental question arises – what is the social interest, whether it is a social interest for a city in Serbia, so that a session of the DS's main board was held a month ago, that children in the city would receive modellings of dinosaurs, mammoths, monkeys, etc. or is it more important that all the cities in Serbia, all the homes of health in Serbia, get one medical device that uses tens of thousands of people daily? I am interested in the end – is this brilliant idea born into some expert head here in Serbia or is it again a radical order from the EU, with a message that Serbia will be admitted to the EU along with the mammoths and dinosaurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48902	Four minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, and the People's Messenger Miroslav Marinkovic and the People's Messenger Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, the Health Protection Act is what we MPs like to say - system law, roof law. We believe that this proposal of Article 3 degrades this legal text because it is prescribed, as only a solution is problematic, because this proposal of Article 3 provides for the inspector to carry out surveillance tasks in the official departments, which is complemented by Article 243 of the Law. We did not recognize in this explanation the government, which is why it is necessary for the inspector to carry out surveillance tasks in the official department. We think that while this topic should be the subject of some sublegal acts, it creates the impression that it is necessary for surveillance inspectors to be unannounced in some way, to prevent themselves from being unannounced, by their own will, by their conviction, from being supervised by health institutions. In addition, we believe that each inspector has its own legitimacy quite enough that this inspector can be properly legitimateized and that he can carry out this official supervision and it seems to us that with such legal solutions, which are often formal, which essentially do not change the text of the law, we are demeaning, as I said at first, the texts of the law, which are extremely important and we seem to have a completely lower quality of our legislation than it should be, and rather than what all the institutions and citizens of Serbia deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48904	The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure on the debate of Mr Maric in which he mentioned Svilajnac and in a negative context presented and compared two incomparable things. Health care is foreseen in the budget, and this law, which is the topic of the current debate, provides for certain resources used for health care and participates in both the Ministry of Health and local self-government. As for the Svilian, it is true that it is intended to build a dinosaur museum, as it is called, not a monkey, an animal, which is probably a problem for you to distinguish because you are not in that matter. It's completely understandable. However, does this mean that we should practically deprive ourselves of education and all other segments that improve the quality of life and compare it to something that is an organization in a municipality? As far as I know, you've already been able to improve health care in the municipality in two terms. The Ministry will provide as much as you report. I see no reason to compare one city that has nothing to do with you and that belongs to another county and that in a completely wrong way in contaminate ridicule you talk about something that is a civilization's flow, an improvement of a society. You feel that neither foreign language nor anything in your community should be taught, but you cannot expect us all to stop living because you are unable to organize your ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48906	Two minutes of MP time was used. That's why you got the word and I beg you without abuse. National MP Dusan Maric has been reported. You have no right to a replica. I ask the other MPs not to receive. Would you like to speak in the time of the parliamentary group? Here you go. National MP Dusan Maric on the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48907	I accept this explanation. I accept it's a dinosaur museum, not a monkey museum. I apologize to the monkeys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48908	National MP, you have been given the word to speak of an amendment to Article 3, which reads - Article 3 is deleted. Please don't throw it away. National MP Dusan Maric was right to abuse a member in 106 and was carefully listened to with the desire to bring about the agenda -- the costs in the RS budget in one position with the budget costs of another position he used. Now he's asking again to talk about the amendment and I'm asking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48909	I remind you once again of what I said. I find it illogical, that it is not socially justified to provide for the introduction of new uniformed persons in the form of a health inspector, spend on this money, spend money on opening various museums, natural or any other, and at the same time not have five million dinars for hiring three doctors who are necessary for normal functioning of the Home of Health in the Great Plan. I've asked one reasonable question to which I expect an answer. I insist that Minister Milosavljevic answer that question. How is it possible that the Serbian government, where he is the minister, has 500 million dinars to build a dinosaur museum, and there are no five million dinars to hire three doctors in the House of Health in the Great Plan and one pediatrician who would be in charge of the treatment of 600 children in Milosevic and Lozovic? Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48910	A minute and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP, Pai Mamchilov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the third point of amending the Health Protection Act. We have one system law that when it was passed back in 2005, one of its characteristics that was indicated was that it was too widespread. We believe that the erasure of this article should have been brought and for the reason that, if anyone noticed, this law is being banalized. When you say that the saying of this article is: the office of oversight in the official suit is prescribed by the minister and carried out by the inspection, we believe that it is matter that can be regulated by sublegal acts. Since I love to stick to the drunk plate of these amendments, the interesting explanation that the government has given is why it does not accept this. We got this in front of the session, so I might need a little more time. He says this is how you allow the legal basis to be established. If a legal basis is established, why is it established in this same law legal basis for most healthcare professionals, for us doctors? We don't work and we don't operate in our suits. We work in special uniforms. Why didn't you prescribe for that if you had a unique and smart attitude that you wanted to embrace? That's our question, for example. You say, "work on the ground" means "work on the ground." He doesn't need a costume in the field. I guess he needs a civilian suit. He's not gonna parade like a cop in some new suit. After all, when he comes to a health care facility he has to respect the rules and you probably know that, Mr. Minister, the institution, the sanitary and the others. In the foster home where he works, he's not going into that suit, but we're going to costume him as prescribed by your regulations. Therefore, one too many members. Why is that? Because we're protesting. What do you allow yourself? That you bind such pointless members to one who offends you, the next, who will come and talk about. That's what we're gonna say. What does not endure time and practice can not be changed by day-to-day system laws as you do. It hasn't even been a month since you've changed the provisions on extended labor. Why didn't you cover all these legal provisions then, if you're responsible and you're doing your job, then you could at least make that effort to do it. What Mrs. Paunovic said, we are in a difficult situation. How am I supposed to do a quality discussion based on what I'm reading right now that came in front of me 15 minutes ago? I can't follow the rest of the debate. I have to read this. Systemic laws have always been passed, and that's your shame, by emergency procedure. Don't do an emergency procedure. Why did you give the psychoactive substance law to an emergency procedure? I don't want to talk about him. I'll speak as an argument when it's time, not to be warned. One thing is clear, these are the day-to-day changes you're trying to patch up a bad system law. It wasn't just us who showed you Europe. In this poor system law, you also have corrupt elements that generate corruption, conflict of interest, and in the chamber we will see it, and I will stop to not go and spread the discussion of other problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48912	Four minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48913	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I recall, you, Mr. Minister, have always had legitimate objections to the budget coming to us before the end of the year, concerning the distribution of funds to the Ministry of Health. We understood those remarks and tried as a parliamentary group to influence the government that these funds within the Ministry of Health increased, since we felt that individual preventive programmes were not sufficiently supported by the RS budget. Instead of spending your resources rationally at this point, you have surprised us very much, Mr. Minister - to introduce the amendments and additions to this uniform for health inspectors. So, at a time when the most severe economic crisis, when the end is barely drawn up, when individual programmes in question don't work at all, when in one entire area, like dentistry, there's no preventive program, you're making an amendment to the law that applies to suits. We think it's unnecessary at this point, and considering that official suits should exist, but there is also a time when they are done. When the state is rich, when there's funds for it, then it's done, now it's a complete storm. Instead, Mr. Minister, if you were really into making a new health care law, we saw about a month and a half ago we had an amendment to that same law that opened to a large door corruption in healthcare with supplemental work, you're creating an illusion that you're doing something at the Ministry of Health. So, Mr. Minister, this doesn't lead to anything. These aren't good changes and additions to the Health Protection Act. This doesn't solve the problem, the problem is far more serious, and I'll talk about it later on about some other laws. It's high time you took this job seriously for which you were paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48914	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as my colleagues from the MPs' club, I am expressing a protest that we started the debate without the Government's opinion on these laws, and it was subsequently passed, so that it seems to be the government's manner in order to give MPs less time to prepare the amendments. As far as Article 4 is concerned, The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act refers to Article 250. The health care law, and that member is talking about health inspection. This member is not large and I will quote him: "The costs of health inspections incurred at the request of the party bear the applicant's claim. The minister prescribes the cost of the first member's position." This adds a new position, with this change and addition, so that it reads – the funds achieved by payment in accordance with the party's request are the revenues of the Republic's budgets with a view to financing the costs incurred in connection with the implementation of the procedure. It is not clear how supervision of the work of health services and private practices is carried out at the request of the party. Article 243(1) states that this supervision covers the supervision of legality and inspection. Such premeditated surveillance should be the continued activity and care of inspection bodies, not carried out at the request of the party. I assume that this party is unhappy with the provision or unproblemed medical service that requires the inspection of the health care institution concerned. In this way, the costs of inspection supervision that should be continued and sometimes self-initiated by a party, you place on the party's burden as much resources as possible into the budget. The way it is provided is inappropriate, especially as it is done in a situation of universal misery and poverty of citizens. For this reason, this amendment shall require the removal of Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48916	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48917	I'm joining what my colleague from the SRS said. Look what we're being told, I'm reading in parallel in a hurry what we got in response. They point to the answer previously given to the first point of this law, and it is said that these funds must allegedly be in the budget. I wonder where they've been before. If we agree that surveillance is something of a continuous nature and is part of a mandatory job, which is a description of regular work, and we will all agree that such a qualification could be subjected to extraordinary supervision. I'd agree that there is then, but again, I wonder how one state authority can put money somewhere else. Now I need an explanation from the minister whether those funds have gone past the budget and been spent past the budget. Please give me an answer or an interpretation, and then we'll be satisfied with this kind of response where they're telling us to go to article one that has nothing to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48918	One minute and 10 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48919	This amendment provided for Article 5. The health care bill proposal is deleted. In your explanation, you answered what you said, it's pretty wide, I wouldn't read it. We understand your argument, but we think that eradicating this member of the law makes sense because it's unacceptable to make frequent changes, the previous ones were less than a month and a half ago, legal provisions trying to maintain an unrealized and plotted health service policy. We want to point out the seriousness of the problems encountered in the work of individual health centres since 2005 when a member of this law began to apply. In Article 5. The law stipulates that a period of 5 years for the acquisition of founding rights over health homes by local self-government is extended to eight years. That is why you are passing the law by an urgent procedure, because by December 10th of this year, according to the current Health Protection Act, all health centres in Serbia should exist as such, and instead of that, health and pharmacy homes that are under the authority of local self-government, and general hospitals should remain in the jurisdiction of the republican institutions. Local self-government points out the problem of taking over the founding rights or division that is carried out between health homes and general hospitals for the simple reason that for many years on our premises, the health center is a unique institution so that separation is not easy at all. First of all, it is not simple for physical reasons because it is common objects, common services, common staff serving one and the other institutions, so for this reason we have proposed that this amendment delete this article of the law. The new form of the healthcare organisation will not improve Serbia's citizens or better health care, and therefore Serbian citizens fear with justification. The process of separation starts with a de-obligation balance, and there are real and often unsecured problems. If the pharmacy succeeds and the home of health, they acquire legal status, what is simply incomprehensible, inhumane and simply amazing, it is that health institutions, health care and general hospitals, will have common diagnostics, have a common laboratory, an x-ray, an ultrasound, which will create even greater chaos. And so far, there have been waiting lists for laboratory analysis, ultrasound, X-ray and these waiting lists for up to six months, and there have been many more words about them when we talked about amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act and when many healthcare users complained about these waiting lists, especially oncological patients. We believe that these waiting lists, and at all this Health Care Act, will not do any good, until you have previously passed the Health Insurance Act, which will help patients to have the right to choose a doctor to be treated, have the right to go and treat themselves in private practice and what is inadmissible to our laws, is that if the patient cannot wait to get blood out in a month or a half, he will go to a private laboratory, there will pay for a service he has already paid for by voluntary health insurance. It is simply a conflict of interest and therefore this should not be regulated in this way, and if it is common, such as laboratories, health homes, the same problem is that in one way these services will be invoiced, as far as health homes are concerned, and on the other hand, they will be invoiced differently from general hospitals. So people from the same place, if they go to a health care facility, in a way, if they go to a general hospital, they will have another direction, or maybe because there will be invoices in the general hospital, they will not be given instructions for some specialist examinations. As representatives of the SRS, we believe that health centres are not overcome solutions and that this is a selective approach, given that, as I said, it is not an overriding way of funding. That is why we have submitted this amendment to the bill. You didn't have enough hearing to respect him, and we're sorry you didn't accept him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48920	Four minutes and 40 seconds of time have been used by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just as I said in the previous presentation, we are coming to Article 5 which is essential, which is why these amendments are being made and, of course, the explanation is that the health and health centres can continue in the way they have done so far. Be careful, the 2005 law virtually prohibits working this way on December 10th. Today is the 10th, as I understand it, and already these institutions, if we're going to strictly respect the law, are in trouble. Let's let it go, it's not the law, as it's said - gold letter. It can be broken, right, like we want to break it now. What's the problem here? Here's the problem one, why did we tell you to delete this? We wanted to bring an absurd situation, to completely demass it. What's this about? There's a huge system error here. It's evidence that the law is unreal. We often tell you from the SRS: "Don't, you don't have the conditions to achieve such a thing." Then, you keep voting something that seems possible to you in the future, but life is nice to convince you that something like that is impossible, and then you back-to-back force us, and you bring us into this situation to discuss in an unquality way such important problems. Didn't you know a month ago that December 10th expires when you have to change the law so that centres and health institutions can function in the current way? Of the 22 institutions, only two managed to skip this part. I warn Serbian citizens that this bill was not supported by the Health Committee. You didn't even get support from your ruling majority in the Health Committee. What kind of explanation will you have? Be aware that you do not have the support of the Health Committee for this. Explain yourself as you wish. What's the problem? The problem is that you, unfortunately, with the legal changes you are proposing to us, which will be the next law, and that will prove the same, that this is the same situation, you will not understand the basic problems of Serbian citizens and Serbia's health. You won't understand that the basic problem is the biological threat of this nation. We can't see it anywhere through these legal solutions of yours, that you've figured it out, and that according to that, you want to do it with international recommendations. Now there was the remark of one colleague, that it was wrong to say that some of the resources from one resistor should be transferred to another. The Canadian organisation that supports the work of parliament and which leads us around the world has been working to jump the budget and they've jumped the citizens nicely. That's what's been presented here in Parliament. Ten per cent of the budget should go to health care according to Serbian citizens. According to his colleague, it's legitimate. We represent the citizens of Serbia's opinion. We'd like you to represent, but you don't. Why? Because in this land more dies than we are born and we disappear, not because we have a white plague, but because there is a great common mortality, 14 dies per thousand inhabitants, and ten is born. You say, "We have lived longer." No, in the vicinity, both Croatia and Slovenia live longer and less die. What do they die of? From chronic non-infectious diseases. Which one? Cardiovascular and malignant. I don't want to read "Pistol," there's a website that's interesting. It's been signed there, and I don't really like it, that the US government is funding, and on the other hand, the Royal Embassy of Norway. There's a nice article there, I don't want to read who and how, that in Vojvodina of 5,000 cancer patients, only 3,500 received that protection. On the board we heard there were 13 machines missing from this country for radiation. If you take a little bit and read everything in the publication "Rac", where Chikaric is a professor and president of the Association for the Combating Cancer of the NGO. So that's what you insist on. He says this is a disaster, that everywhere in Europe, it is and there is an increase in cancer, but mortality is dropping. We have a 2.3% growth rate. Then what am I supposed to say? Now let me go back to the subject, specifically, what we heard on the board, a terrible thing. In Vrsec, they split up and that they already had no means in Vrsec that the hospital could work normally. They were previously told by the previous fund manager – take the loan. You tell them again, take the loan. That's how you run the system. What's the big deal? That the blood of voluntary donors was dumped. That's where you're responsible and you're directly responsible, Mr. Minister. You had a transfusion reform that the foreigners supported and we came to the point that blood in Vrsac, citizens of Serbia, is being thrown away because of the inability to process. They say they don't have the funds. That's terrible. And if I didn't count everything else, I didn't blame you for anything, but I did a long time ago for all of you. It's my fault that whoever's holding you is, in my opinion, the irresponsibility of a government in a difficult time period. What I'm saying is these are all EU views. These are all the materials that should bind you far more than me. I'm not obliged by the US Embassy's position and the financing of the Pistol, you need to be bound. We have recently heard that a bunch of European taxpayers, 140 million help for our system through various projects, have been abused, where some projects are characterised by a disaster. Is that true? Now I call on the international factors that work here together with you to open these projects, to see that last year's analysis that lasted three months. What does the evaluation of health projects say? Is this what favours and benefits Serbian citizens, or is it, unfortunately, smudged and that, unfortunately, Serbian citizens do not benefit from it? So that's why we've reacted in such an absurd way, and we're not going to adopt laws like this, cosmetics, that your stupid slips are supposed to abolize. No, I don't. Serbia doesn't deserve that. You manipulate when we criticise with law, both the figures and the figures of the EU, the World Health Organization, come and say, when you were, it was like this. Yeah, they weren't waiting lists, it wasn't that much mortality. Nothing, laugh, show numbers from those publications that you publish. You published this too, it came out – primary health care, though in English, and there we see that every tenth citizen, the World Health Organization was doing this research together with you. They questioned doctors, patients and institutions of the primary health care system, users. What did they find? Every tenth hasn't heard from a doctor because he can't pay for medication and treatment. It's a system where you're in charge, and you're talking about equality, big things. Of course, it was all terrible. Yeah, it was bad. Well, that's what someone paid for. And if you're already calling someone, here's your coalition partner, agree on who's guilty and how much and how much cooperation can be made in a quality way. Those are the answers you have to give. I don't want to talk about those banalities when the Supreme Leader goes to be treated for routine surgery in another country. It's a matter of morale. I will not warn you, and it is your right to do so, and there is nothing anyone can blame you for. But we're wondering, how long is this going to be like this? As long as these vaccine tenders, what about the vaccine? It's gone. It doesn't matter. Who's responsible? Who should account to the people? No responsibility, no one's responsible in this country. Wait. It won't be like that. It's not Europe. This Europe has a system of changeability and has responsibilities, has a rule of law, and you are already taking this shift with which you are already illegally bringing into place the health institution of Serbia so that someone can throw mud at them. That's it, Mr. Minister. Really, I'm like a man astounded by this measure of debauchery, that measure of lack of personal responsibility and conscience, that I have no words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48922	Ten minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48923	Article 5 of the amendment and the amendment practically amends Article 266 of the current Health Protection Act, and in that article it was required, among other things, that there be a deadline, so that the deadline began to run in 2005, when the law was passed, that local self-government was obliged to assume the fundamental rights of primary healthcare institutions, i.e. translated into Serbian -- that local self-governments are obliged to take over health homes and that local self-government will finance their functioning. You're now extending that five-year deadline by another three years, so you're leaving practically eight years to execute, I'm going to use the word you like to use, decentralisation of primary health care. What is not good is that by changing this member you are practically sending a message to everyone in Serbia that it is worth not respecting the law. Why? Because those local self-governments that respected the provisions of this law and within five years took over the founding rights over the homes of health, it turns out that they, I won't use that ugly word, but they didn't turn out to be smart. Why? Because they could save a lot of money in any empty registers of local self-government, and their funding could continue from the republican budget, as you now provide the opportunity to extend it by another three years. So, these local self-governments as if they weren't wise enough, they didn't know that you were going to extend that deadline for another three years, but they did, and that they had great separations for primary healthcare institutions protected by their territories. The message you send, by amending this amendment, to the citizens of Serbia, to institutions, is – do not respect the law. In an explanation why you are changing, therefore, in light of the changes and additions made to this bill, you are informing the MPs that out of the 22 health centres on central Serbia's territory, which are still formally and legally carrying out the action of the separation process, only two health centres have ended. So, of 22, only two health centres respected the provisions of the applicable Health Protection Act. Next you say – 18 health centres are at different stages of this process, so, separation, while only two health centres are at the beginning of the separation process. You know what, this shows that your ministry hasn't done its job in five years either, and you haven't helped the health centers to also comply with this law. Of course, the local cash registers are empty. You're probably getting a response from local self-government, who didn't go into this process, that they simply don't have the money to finance their homes of health and to provide their citizens with quality primary protection, that's one thing. However, since I know that the health center is in Piroth, and the Pyrotski district is absolutely one of the poorest districts in this country, that they have completed the procedure, so the local self-government in Dimitrovgrad, White Palanca and Babušnica, a little later, even the home of health in Piroth has recently been left alone, so to speak, i.e. to the budget of local self-government, so that the argument that local self-government, however empty, has therefore not even had your support for the whole procedure. What it also shows is that you and the party to whom you belong talk a lot about decentralisation, but in practice you really don't care so much about decentralisation, because even when this law was passed in 2005, there was talk about decentralisation of health care, how good it would be for health homes to finance from local registers, that there would be better control and insight into the entire primary health care process of citizens. So, the story of decentralisation, it looks like you only do it when it suits you. What can also instigate suspicion is that at this point in, I say, the pre-election year does not correspond to the absolute decentralization of that system. Why? Because they are mainly at the head of the health centres of people from one party in Serbia, and with this whole system that is quite numerous, you are in some way working on a pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48924	Four minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic has the word, so the People's MP Simo Vukovic and the People's Messenger Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the fundamental question that is being raised here is whether your ministry, a month and a half ago, when we were already making amendments to the Health Protection Act, knew about this problem, that the deadline for taking over the jurisdiction of the primary health care facility would expire in December? I don't suppose you had that knowledge. Or do you take care of something else? So that question is also being extended on the subject of whether there is someone in the Ministry who is in charge, a person who follows the whole law and follows the law? If such a person existed in the ministry, you and she probably knew that this problem would arise in November. Why, then, did you not approach the amendments to the Health Protection Act? Obviously, this person does not exist and it is obvious that the ministry does not have sufficient capacity within its basic competences, which is to monitor and implement the law. That's a big problem. But is that the only problem? I think the problem is that narrowing down this deadline is trying to hide the financial flows and the flow of money. So it seems to me that it's something that led to the entry into this kind of teat, when there's nowhere left to go, and then it goes on for another three years. When it comes to the issue of money flow in health care, the question arises – did you get a questionnaire from the EU in the Ministry of Health? We, MPs, are. There are a few interesting questions. How will you, Mr. Minister, answer the question number 39, 40, 41, 45 and 46? Not to talk about other areas. These issues are about Serbia's health system. What does question 39 say? You see, it's directly related to these events, changes and additions to the Health Protection Act. Mr. Secretary of State is gone, but there's Mr. Secretary of State. So question 39 says this: "What is your health costs as a percentage of GDP in absolute euro amounts and how are they structured, including the amounts spent in the public and private sector?" How much money is spent in the private sector? Does anyone have any valid information on how much total health spending is compared to GDP? Is that 6%, according to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, or 8%, according to the Ministry of Health, or 11% as the World Bank says? The next question concerns whether you are applying the OECD Manual – the Health Account System? Do we even have a health account? Is that what we have? You see, when you have such questions, and you don't have any answer, then this is how it happens to be a vision like an amendment to the Health Protection Act. Recently, a press release reported that the EU delegation here in Belgrade has received an independent expert report on the spending of EU taxpayers' funds aimed at reforming Serbia's health system. What is the fate of that report? Did he show up in public? It's not. Why isn't it? Just to hide the money flows in health care. Several projects in the report have been assessed as catastrophic. That's what colleagues used to talk about. What happens to EU funds spent, and what happened to certain projects? What's going on with the Capitation Project? How will the Capitation Project be implemented in those poor environments when the people are mass-fleeing from these municipalities, because they can't live. Other parts of Serbia remain empty. Anything that can be packed and has a one-way ticket to Belgrade, these people do. You are talking about the project "Capitations", and at the same time when you are asked the question – how money is spent in health, you have no answer. That answer doesn't exist for you. Different data on the amount of money, on the network of health institutions, on the number of health workers, on the number of health associates, on pathology, etc., even in four or five places we found different data. It's the health policy you're running. I fear you have discredited the state of Serbia in the eyes of the EU with this kind of work. I fear many projects will be suspended because there are serious objections to the work of the Ministry of Health. You have a minister who's been a minister since 2002, and you have the condition he is. A little while ago, one of my colleagues mentioned the vaccine problem. And then, in time, we reacted and talked about it. And where are we? Despite the fact that we paid dearly and overpriced vaccines, through resellers and various merchants, that we now have to destroy six hundred thousand vaccines by paying for transport and paying for destruction in another country, because we don't have these devices to destroy dangerous medical waste. And it's part of a policy run by the Ministry of Health. It's part of the minister's policy, which has been Minister of Health for eight and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48926	Seven minutes and 45 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will not support this amendment, but I would like to refer to the previous discussions concerning this amendment, in which a series of lies have been made. First of all, I absolutely don't accept this finding that the party I represent here is in some kind of political campaign because it brings amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. I'd like first of all to hear the exact and precise data points that you're presenting, related to the status in which the health centres are to enter the process of separation, not to speak in a casual way. On the other hand, your colleague here presented the fact that the said report viewed the situation in Serbian health as catastrophic. So that's absolutely not true, please quote that report. Don't interpret the report. Maybe you haven't read it. Maybe someone convinced you. Please quote exactly the report and say where it says that the situation is catastrophic or that some projects have been assessed as catastrophic. This is just about not telling the truth. As for this noticeable anxiety that exists with you, which is related to the policy of the United Regions of Serbia, primarily for decentralisation and regionalisation of Serbia, I will remind you that the DSS was the bearer of the regionalisation project seven or eight years ago. Somehow you have amnesia in all of this. Maybe we'll be back together in that front, I hope. So, once again I invite you, since I thought that part of the debate ended in a principle debate, you said that this was brought among other things because of the staff at the head of the health centres – I call you once again, because of the people who are at the head of these health centres, to state the names of the members of which the party at the head of the health centres, because of the correctness and truth that this debate needs to be characterized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48928	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48929	We of the SRS support the amendment of a colleague of the DSS. I want to point out one very important fact that Mr. Paja Momchilov touched. We are now discussing amendments to the Health Protection Act, which was adopted in 2005. Under the law, health centres in Serbia fell under the authority of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia until 10 December 2010. Under the law, which is still in force, on December 11th, jurisdiction was to be taken over by local self-government. We'll put this obligation out of force at the earliest on Wednesday. It's Wednesday, as you know, December 22nd. Now one is asking, believe me, an extremely significant question – what about these 12 days? Twelve days of legal vacuum. What about the legal position of health centres and health homes from December 10 to December 22nd? Homes of health by law today, yesterday and tomorrow work semi-legally, outside any legal framework. I touched this question because I wanted to ask the Minister, and unfortunately the minister is not here, how could this happen? Why did that happen? Why did this bill not appear in the assembly procedure a month or two ago, that is, what are the jobs the Ministry of Health has been dealing with over the past two months, which are more important than ensuring that health centres in Serbia operate according to the law, within the legal frameworks? A message is being sent that the health ministry and the Serbian government do not care about respecting the law itself. Finally, one fundamental question is raised – if the government and the health ministry do not respect their own laws, how can they be expected to be respected by citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48930	Two minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Donka Banovic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48931	This is a replica of Mr. Vukovic's exposure, who said I probably had the plural... (President: People's MPs, are you using the time of the parliamentary group? )......................................................................................................... Yes, it's not a problem... I noticed the nervousness of your project called the URS, if I'm not mistaken. There is no anxiety with us about your project, there is anxiety and great concern about what you are doing to Serbia and how you share Serbia according to your intentions on the feeds, nahi, etc. If I continue to use a dictionary from the Turkish era, it seems to me that the nahiji were headed by the so-called. Ober-Princes, and you are currently in charge of these regions of people who are uncut princes, so they join together in the United Regions of Serbia. So the anxiety and concern is just from there. When it comes to amnesia, I think you count a lot on amnesia with Serbian citizens. Amnesia that would work by forgetting that you are a party so far called G17 plus and that it is not you anymore, because you now have a project called the URS and your party, you say, will call itself the URS or the United Regions of Serbia. You're waving your head off. That means it's not like that. So you're counting on amnesia again and you're actually two parties now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48932	According to the order of the application, MP Milan Dimitrijevic and MP Simo Vukovic are the people. National MP Paja Momcilov was registered in the electronic system, but MP Milan Dimitrijevic certainly has the first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48933	The truth is, what does the report say, Mr. Vukovic? The absence of the willingness of domestic partners to implement in practice changes in funding and remuneration. The World Bank's experience -- disagreement on basic principles has been cited so deeply that it has prevented further co-operation on building capacity of the Health Insurance Fund for international co-operation with the Ministry of Health, where there is said to be a history of conceptual differences that has studied all participants. Mr Vukovicu, example two – Institute of Oncology Sremska Kamenica, threatened rights to timely treatment, responds to the Protector of the rights of citizens and reacts to international organisations. It's a threatened right to life. Do you understand that? Is that a good condition in the system or isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48934	One minute of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group was used. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48935	So it's already been confirmed that you were telling a lie in the previous debate. I specifically asked you to state in which part of the report states that the situation is catastrophic or that any project that has been carried out or was related to the Ministry of Health has been characterised in this way. Now you can interpret it the way you want, and I don't want to continue to participate in such an unargumented debate, where the arguments can't be strengthened by the amount of decibel, that's impossible. However, I would like to look back on what Mrs. Banovic said, and it is again about decentralisation. Since we're on that amendment, I'd like to stick to the subject, I need to remind you, you may know that, perhaps not, that the World Health Organization has accepted the concept of decentralisation in the public health system in the first half of the 1990s. So we support projects like this in order to do so. As for your understanding of the concept, that is, the political movement of the United Regions of Serbia, I am very much in the mood to explain it to you. I don't think this is the place, but I have to tell you that G17 plus is still going to exist as the power of command. I really can't understand that you're like an MP, who comes from exactly one place that's slowly moving out, where there are serious social problems, for a centralised state, and that you're not for a concept that should allow exactly the kind of neighborhoods whose population and citizens you represent to have better political representation or that they're closer to making decisions and what the resources of this country are. So that's short information. I am still standing on this because there is a noticeably nervous formation of the political movement, because it responds to challenges ahead of Serbia in the next decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48936	Two minutes and 15 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger, Paja Momcilov, has the word, and the People's Messenger Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48937	I suppose you won't allow a replica, so let me use the time of the MPs' group. By the way, what Honorable colleague Vukovic said, he asked for where and where to give him the information, I refer you to "Pistol", which covers the US governments of the Norwegian embassy. Now let me read you an exclusive part of a letter, which is in a foreign language, English. Stefan Phil got a letter today, and he got the editor of some "Springer Media AG." "I don't know who he is or what he is. This is a nice thing to say – a round table was organized in December of this year. It says -- the failures of European projects, 140m euros, have pointed to an external EU report that we received through the courtesy of the European delegation in Belgrade, and we have documented that the money of European citizens has been misused, etc., that I do not read everything. Now I'm telling you directly to get on your way. I was on that round table in Tanjug, I was there when all this was read. There's a source of that. If anyone lies, they lie to those from the EU and from the European delegation, who have sent a report to the people who have read it. If you say this about institutions, which institutions? I told you, a school hospital and a home of health, a typical example. Where else are you going to get the facilities with these very difficult problems? What I've heard, I've heard from the Health Committee, I'm talking about some sort of trouble, from a colleague of ours who works at that center. If that's not true, and you have the all-knowing power to know everything, then all right, I agree, that's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48938	Two minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48939	To save a little time, it is best for anyone who thinks differently to directly address the EU Embassy in Belgrade and Ambassador Deger, who explicitly said that the projects in the health sector in Serbia, which amounted to 140m euros from 2000 to today, which were first 105m support from the "Cards" programme, and then I can proudly say that the health ministry has successfully applied for programmes from the fund pre-accession instruments from which the first projects were obtained, precisely because co-operation with the EU has been successfully implemented so far. In July 2010, as health minister, I was invited to Brussels by the European Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection, who very positively assessed everything that has been done so far and made it very clear and explicit that the EU will continue to support further reforms of the health system. I understand that someone needs to deunciate their country and deal with various writings. If you think that this year you should not have delivered 300 vehicles to Serbian healthcare institutions, 250 ambulance vehicles and 54 medical waste management vehicles, if you think the project "Yours doesn't change everything", and otherwise three days ago, the campaign received a national award for the best non-profit campaign, as we received in 2006 for the best non-profit campaign "Your five minutes, someone's whole life", as we received a European prize for a tobacco control campaign, if it shouldn't stand in Serbia, then tell the citizens of Serbia. Don't give up half-truths, wave papers, and use one method that's a long time ago a man named Joseph, and you know what his last name is, you tell the truth, so repeat it 25 times, and the 26th time you hope someone will believe it's true. That's not good. Let's talk about changing the law. I understand the criticism, I understand everything you think about it. I will try to explain to you that the amendments to the laws we have proposed are here – now I am talking about the law on psychoactive substances, but about amendments to the Law on Chambers and amendments to the Health Protection Act – because under the country's legislative system it was impossible to solve these problems by means of sublegal acts. You say that every day the laws change, and I remind you that these laws were passed five years ago in this assembly, two amendments and additions to the law have been passed. If it's any minute, I don't know what it is every minute. With all due respect, of course, it is the right of every MP to speak without limit or limit, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I think that this really is an unnecessary waste of parliamentary energy on something that is practical. decentralisation is an obligation under the Law on Local Self-Government. The municipalities in Serbia have an obligation and responsibility to organise primary protection. There was not enough power, objective and subjective opportunities, including the economic financial crisis that has hit us in recent years, and therefore a simple solution, to act legally, I suggest that you extend the deadline to three years. If you don't agree, you'll have to show it by voting, although I don't see any rational reason to be against it. As far as the chamber is concerned, of the five chambers, one is literally blocked because the authorities to which each mandate has expired and not every deadline can hold new elections. By sublegal law, we'd be acting illegally. That's what the Republic Secretariat says about the legislation, and I'm sure you respect it just as much as I do. That's why we've proposed these amendments to the law, for nothing else. I think it would be good for these two very good, practical, useful things for all citizens of Serbia, to show that we think really best in the public interest, and not to argue here by mentioning elections and parties and such and such interests. I urge you to bring this debate constructively and peacefully, without raising a ton, to one normal epilogue and consent where possible. Where it is not possible, I will respect your right to think the opposite, and I will advocate to the last atom of my strength that you have the right to say it, but I will never allow you to defile the health system that is one of the greatest values Serbia has without reacting. The health system is on its feet in 2010. In 2002, when I first took an oath in this home as a minister of health, he was on his knees and you know it very well, as those who were then in the governments and boards of funds, who knew much more about how money flows and where they were going. Let's look into the future. We need a health system that's gonna be our common good, keep grinding it, fix it. I will tell you that, otherwise, the new management of the chambers and the Health Council of Serbia, by the health minister, is a clearly outlined plan for 2011, to seriously consider issues that require a basic debate during February, March and April and constructive changes to the rules, primarily related to facilitating the process of collecting points for licensing, then, certain provisions of the Health Insurance Act, certain provisions of the Chamber Act, which give the chambers greater rights and responsibility in the area of professional supervision, above all. I will quote a respected colleague who is no longer among us, not among the living, Dr Bosko Jovicevic, who in 2002 and 2003, when we first made the draft law on chambers, said: "Lords, the state has nothing to ask for in relation to the patient – doctor, it is the work of chamber and professional associations". Now we've reached that point where we must give the chambers the strength to take over and that part of their responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48940	Minister, I'm asking you about the Health Protection Act. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48941	It will be from the time of the parliamentary group. Minister, in the explanation that I quoted when I spoke on this amendment, we were informed that only two health centres had executed, so to speak, decentralisation, i.e. that only a few local self-governments in Serbia, you may know the exact number, I do not know how many local self-governments have taken over the homes of health. So, since that decentralisation in health, you practically gave up in the ministry, because in five years, you haven't been able to help health centres to comply with the law. I also cited an example of the Piroth Health Center, one of the poorest districts that had respected the applicable law. So, let's say, the question -- how will you, Mr. Minister, in the next three years, help health centres comply with these provisions, and until 2013, will you give local self-governments to take over health homes? Very little has been done in that decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48942	It's been used for a minute and 24 seconds. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48943	In the decentralisation of the health system, most of all subsystems in this country have been made, as far as decentralisation is concerned. The Law on Local Self-Government has been consistently implemented, and in all these years it has consistently raised the level of services in all health homes by investing 60m euros in 2006 to make health homes look really like health homes. They are provided with equipment and personnel. Where there's a problem, to look back at the Great Plan DZ and Ambulant Lozovik along the way, there's a systemically normal approach to how this problem is solved. It is resolved that DZ Great Plan, inspired by the Lozovik Meat Community, at the Ministry of Health, has been reasoned to prove that there is indeed a need for strengthening the staff with one pediatrician and this is not being resolved discreetly. It's being resolved systemically. At the Commission for the streamlining of health personnel, which was necessary in the ministry and where the representatives of the Fund, the Institute of Batut and the Ministry are sitting, consider the standards, needs and staff plan for one year more jobs are approved, not by how much anyone loves or dislikes but by how much our financial opportunities are. The problem, specifically for Lozovik, will be resolved in the next few weeks as the 2011 personnel plan is now being adopted. No one can help local self-government not to carry out what their job is. This is very well known by municipal congregations and citizens and this process mentioned here in a number of cities, the municipality is under way and no one says that this regulation extends the deadline for another three years. Some of the centers are literally in the final phase. The mention is Pirot, the Pirot is just in the final stage. Why is it even necessary to organize a system like that? Because it is important to separate work in primary healthcare from secondary health, because it is necessary to change the way it is financed. The health center is designed in times of poverty in a way that spends a dinar regardless of whether the home of health or the hospital is in a similar way and because of the poverty of local self-government with, I suppose, a good intention of spending that small dinar in the best possible way. However, the home of health has a definition of work that differs. In Serbia, the health system of the 1960s in the former Yugoslavia has a good tradition of decentralisation, which was subsequently abandoned in the late 1980s and early 1990s. It is a mature time for local self-government to take responsibility for the health of citizens living in these municipalities and cities, because it is indisputable, otherwise you would not vote for the Law on Local Self-Government, if you did not read it, one of you must read it, is a very important function, I do not think, a very important function of the municipality of care for the health of citizens in the territory of that municipality. This is a technical amendment to the law. Experience her, please, well-intentioned. Give local self-government a chance to act by law. The community of cities and municipalities is the best partner of the Ministry of Health. Together with this community we are conducting, and you know very well, ask a large number of municipality presidents from different parties what they think about co-operation with the Ministry of Health, so you will hear that in 2011, what every home of health gets. First of all, the information equipment to be hardware secure, an offer for eight different licensed software to work in health homes and grants from the World Bank loan so that they can start collecting the data properly and that the sooner we can start to carry out the capitulation, because it will start creating conditions for those who do better and more to pay better and more. We have to worry about the frames, or we'll start losing, as we've already started in some areas. We're definitely going to get hit by a cookbook. I recognize in your discussions good intentions, I recognize that you want the health system to be better arranged, and I recognize that you think all of this could have been faster and better. I'm sure it is, but believe me, the Republic Secretariat of Legislative Affairs has simply insisted that this matter be considered in the Assembly, adopted as an amendment to the law, made it impossible for me to overcome the problem by regulations or sublaws. It's simply a simple measure that's being extorted by life, and a systemic solution that I don't see any reason not to agree on right now. For everyone, decentralisation is important, for everyone, it is important that the health homes perform their best possible function from north to south, from east to west. You should also know that the Ministry of Health has certain resources in its programme budget each year to help municipalities below the level of development. I urge you again to ask your presidents of municipalities from your parties – what is the co-operation with the Ministry of Health? You'll be pleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48944	Five minutes and 30 seconds, the government's representative took advantage of the time available. The People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov, has a word, and the People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48945	This is going to go back to the MP's group, I guess, since we don't have a chance to have a dialogue. Mr. Secretary, we're completely cold and cold-headed, we're saying this, but these replacements of thesis, don't. What kind of car? You gave the Yucit car back up. How many cars have gone? Where's the money from the Jucite, which he didn't get for the sanity car? Where's the money? Who made the deal with them? Where was the center for that? You're talking about a car, you're talking about a statement that appeared in the media yesterday, from Mr. Phil, who surprised us, that everything was fine, and you heard that people got a report from the European Office on 140 pages of external control. Let's mention this cold head. Put that report on your website. It's your duty, you're a European, you're for transparent relations. Put on a report from an external commission about which there was a little controversy here, where we didn't understand each other, so whether or not it says this or that, we'll see nice and we'll get it all figured out. Then there's no need for us to face each other here and waste our time. What Nishu Mr. Phil said, I ask them both and I call them to account, what about these projects? You're saying we're talking to the dictionary of fact. For me, the dictionary is the fact that 3,500 people didn't get medical therapy in Vojvodina and that it might have paid with its head. To me, language is the fact that you needed 13 machines. You've received 140 million help from Europe. One of the most modern machines cost a million and a half. You couldn't see what the key problems were. That's what we're talking about. What optimism, what future? You didn't do what you had to do to protect this nation's health. You're misplanning, unreal, and you're installing it into legislation and you don't understand that fundamental problem of the nation. That's the problem. That's what we're telling you. What happened in Nis? Manager, you've forced state officials into this god-awful NGO called Gongo and Kwango. You know what that acronym means. You're establishing a godless NGO, and you've got poor other officials who have to join and pay membership here. Don't. What optimism? We're completely cold, but we've been cut off completely, and you still have reason to find some optimism in your speeches. Don't. What does the report tell you in this assembly, in the O.R. next to us? In the spring, our president of the assembly chaired the UNDP meeting, what does the analysis of health corruption tell you? Is that why we're optimistic? What do you think we are, unthinkable people? We didn't. I'm sorry, that background reference, I said, clear up with a colleague next to you, who's as guilty as it is, what is it? If I stole something, say, if I got rich, say it, Mr. Minister, openly – you got it and you got it, you got it. To count what anybody has, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48946	Three minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48947	There would be 21 radiation apparatus in Serbia if it were the government and the fund, in which the gentleman who was now speaking sat as a minister without a portfolio and as a member of the Governing Board of the same fund cared about his work, but when I entered the health ministry in June 2002, I found a system on my knees. The system had five radiation machines, one of which was a cobalt bomb at the 70-year-old Institute of Oncology and Radioactive Waste and an average of 6,000 people coming to air therapy. Today, Serbia has 14 appliances in all five centres. Today, Serbia can radiate 12,000 people who are being treated for malignant diseases. Today, Serbia has a quarter reduction in the mortality of stomach tumors, an end to mortality from uterus tumours, and for the first time in Serbia's history, 50,000 breast screening programs were done during last year with two mobile mammographers. Today, Serbia has received support, Serbia's citizens both from Japan and the EU to cover their needs with appliances and learn rapidly that doctors can use it and do it. It's not right to stand on one side, no matter how she looks. It's not right not to mention what those people who help you say. Are the projects perfect? Of course not. Are they all as successful as the maximum and as phenomenal as we are? You can't have a project that's supportive and helpful, so that everyone has 100% fulfillment that's assessed by each of the maximum grades. Under the current circumstances, this health system, which the predecessor blacked out on all bells, was evaluated in Davos in February 2010 as one of Serbia's greatest values. Of the 133 countries, they are ranked by different things, Serbia has 46th place in the health system. Corruption is a grave pain in Serbian society. The students of the economy learn when corruption enters the doors of a society, it takes two generations to eradicate. Unfortunately, she's taken so much swings that there's no part of a society that can defend itself. The health ministry in the fight against corruption, along with all other healthcare workers, is doing everything it can. A series of moves - the programme budget, the rotation of workers in inspections, internal surveillance, the white phone institution, which has been open 24 hours to praises, bids, calls, patients' rights institutions, codes of employment and in health and in the ministry, a strategy to fight corruption. Finally, in that year, which is mentioned here in such a peorative way, when you ask citizens 60% say yes, health workers are corrupt, and when you ask them, do you have a personal experience 19% says yes, I have a personal experience. The rest got that impression based on someone who said it or on the impressions, writing, and the media. Of all those who have personal experience, 70 to 80% just decided to do something. In 2002, for the first time in the campaign "It's not hard to be nice" said don't shut up and pay, only by joint action can we root out corruption in health care. It is not correct not to say that the EU assesses us much better than on occasion itself. We don't need other critics, we don't need critics. We're enough of ourselves. You have seen how we can denunciate ourselves with EU writings in which we are asked to stop helping Serbian citizens. However, the criteria for EU citizens to decide who and how to help are far from empty stories are much stronger. They say -- we will help Serbian citizens because capacity building is one way to help. You have to teach people, among other things, to formulate and implement projects. I'm proud that several dozen Roma mediators have been employed over the past few years. These are women with completed primary school and final public health as education, who came up with 120,000 Roma, which provided 34,000 ID cards, which contributed to the vaccination of 7,000 children, who contributed to the systematic checks in the Roma population. With NGOs, the Ministry of Health has phenomenal co-operation, so to speak, because the programme budget supports projects that realise what is common interest – the fight against malignant diseases, the fight against cardiovascular diseases. I wish that in 2002, when I entered the Ministry of Health, the situation was not such that the system was on its knees. He'd be even better today. The system's on its feet. A storymate never says that there are 17 polluters of the city of Belgrade, the ugliest in Belgrade, who have worked on coal and lubricating coal, have been closed in a building with 600 new windows, all new bathrooms, a brand new roof and a complete new equipment, and today a gas heat works. It is a project that the World Bank assessed in 2007 as the most valuable project in the world that changes the lives of citizens, and Vice President of Sige Kaco has come to congratulate us on the greenest project. In 2011, we also do this in Nis, because for us decentralisation is something that is life, not an empty phrase and not a reason to hold a speech in parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48948	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used at the disposal of an authorised representative. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48949	So we're talking about this member who predicts a return of value to local self-government. That's where this controversy came from. Mr. Minister, we agree on one thing, this is a waste of time. If you'd listened very carefully to me, you'd have seen what a major grudge this member is. I asked you, Mr. Minister, if you had any knowledge a month and a half ago that on December 10th, the deadline for taking charge of local self-government would expire. If you had the knowledge or the person who works with you at the ministry, who follows the law, should have given you that signal, then a month and a half ago, when we had the first amendment to the health care law, we would have changed and talked about the amendments of that member. Now, after a month and a half, we have a change of two or three members again. That's when we made it clear how we feel about the supplemental work. You just mentioned corruption. We clearly said then that the change of that member and the possibility of additional work in healthcare institutions has wide opened the door to corruption. Then we asked why supplemental work because the system is overloaded. If it's overloaded, where's the private sector, why isn't it integrated into the health system? What does the European Charter say about that? This is a violation of the basic principles of the European Charter, not including the private sector. What does our Constitution say about all this? That's our dispute. We are all fighting corruption together, someone more, someone less, in various ways, but we should all be amazed by the fact that a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency board says that health is the champion of corruption in Serbia. That's what the media published. It's not a press story. The gentleman's name is, the reminders are working, Zoran Stojljkovic. Before that, we have an NGO that deals with the same subject whose results you present, that's Cesid, and when we ask how Cesid got the job from the health ministry, whether there were any tenders, if anyone came forward, how much he paid for it, we have no answer. That's what's causing the suspicion. We're gonna talk openly about all the facts or we're not gonna talk about anything, so we're gonna get in the way we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48950	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48951	Let's get back to the amendment. You're talking about decentralisation. You're criticizing that we haven't thought enough, and what do you suggest? You're suggesting he come back five years. That's destructive. So there's no alternative proposal, you suggest not to adopt an extension of three years but to be five years. Of course we knew exactly what the deadline was and of course we started a few weeks ago the process of solving this problem that first went to ensure the possible possibility of sublegal acts that would regulate this. Because it was impossible because people who deal with legislation and compliance with regulations say it is more correct to adopt the law. That's why we're going to change the law. Complementary work is a cure for corruption. I deeply believe that this is not a corrupt measure and the whole of Europe knows it. This ensures that people can earn what they need for their family without having to do other jobs, buy blankets, buy fields and plant raspberries or blueberries, or I don't know what. It's a principled divergence in attitude and I allow someone to have a different view of health policy and even that. It is a popular sentence that when such an excuse is never problematic, it should be financed as many services as possible in a way that is competitive, competition between state and private ownership and the quality of services. That's right. However, we know that the level of funding for healthcare in Serbia is at the lowest level of all European countries except Albania. You'll see what the draft budget looks like when you consider and think and discuss, so you'll understand what our limits are and what they're like. It would be very irresponsible to promise something that is unsustainable, impossible, and completely unrealistic. What is possible and necessary, for example, is to conclude a contract with a private institution that will operate 240 people at the prices that are acceptable to national security. What is realistic and sustainable, send 120 people and operate in Turkey for the same money. What is realistic, important, and good is that cardiosurgery in Nis has been opened, which has successfully operated on the first 20 patients since 17 November. That's what's real, it's not realistic to throw out paroles of state property, let for money the service fund so I can choose, because there's no such thing in Europe, and when you quote European examples then it's your turn to be honest to the end. In Europe, there are systems that have been built for dozens of years on a completely different principle, and there are different experiences, and each European country has some specifics relating to the combination of state and private, whether it is the state and private work of an individual, whether it is the engagement of an institution for the costs of a public health source of financing or private insurance funds, and that is the system that we have been building all these years. We're building it pretty successfully, of course. Here is now a package of additional voluntary insurance for dental services, as you keep talking about dental institutions, is not true that Serbia does not have a preventive protection strategy, and as it does. You should also know that over the past few years, the number of preventive checks have been increased in children and young people by a third. I'm sure it increases significantly and further, because free dental care is up to the age of 18, then it's possible to provide only for emergency situations, but the Health Insurance Fund, this Republic Health Insurance Office, now offers a insurance package, so if you have 500 dinars per month to pay in supplementary insurance and you have the coverage of dental services to a certain extent. It wouldn't be possible if we hadn't voted together the Health Insurance Act in 2005. As for Cesid, so no one will do research for free to be serious, of course the Public Procurement Act is respected, of course everything is done in accordance with the law, and of course it's answered to your parliamentary question in writing, but you say it's not, so now what the old Latina would say - sapienti watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48952	Six minutes have been used at the disposal of a government representative. The People's Messenger Dusan Maric has a word, and the People's Messenger Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to avoid confusion in the public, especially among the people in the Great Plan in the employment of these three doctors, I must point out these two facts. The Home of Health in the Great Plan, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the envisaged procedure, submitted a request for the employment of three doctors and for the employment of a pediatrician at a health station in Lozovic. All the representatives of the government with whom we have discussed and discussed the matter have agreed that a serious request is in question and that it should be dealt with urgently. The problem, however, is that it is not being solved. Simply, when there is no goodwill, then there is always a procedural, administrative excuse for resolving such a question to be postponed. I hope that the minister will respect the facts and that the 2011 staff plan will determine how this problem will be solved. I need to look at one more fact. In the field with Mr. Pai Momchilov on this bill, the minister spoke of radiation machines. It pulled me back to look at one last night's TV show about an alarming state in the diagnostics area with radiological devices.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48954	National MP, it is widely interpreted as Article 106, but precisely on television shows in the context of the agenda theme, please do not, at least for as long as we keep the vision of respect for the Rules of Procedure by all participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48955	If there's only one more sentence. Mr. Minister has failed to answer one fundamental question about this law – why are we discussing this bill today beyond the legal deadline? Why are health homes in Serbia and health centres in a legal vacuum? The bill was due to come to the Assembly before December 10th.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48956	Two minutes of MP time was used. Mr. Milosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48957	No problem is solved in the health system by talking to some members of the government, and then it is good will, and then it is discreetly decided in one way or another, but it is solved in the manner that standards as regards employee staff in health institutions and objectively realistic conditions are set out. The home of health that has been mentioned, like all other homes of health and hospital, see their size of work, show their needs within the human resources plan and problems are solved. We're here to solve problems, not to talk about them and not to control them. Therefore, if there is justification, the problem will be solved. That's one thing. As far as these other matters are concerned, I don't know how many times I have to explain that I am asking you, pleading to the MPs, passing an application from the Ministry of Health and the health institutions of Serbia, for the objective reasons of most of them, there is much subjective, it is important to adopt an amendment to the law which leaves another deadline that is relatively reasonable from 36 months in which someone two, six, nine, will settle for 18 the issue of his obligation under the Law on Local Self-Government, to take responsibility for the health of citizens in his territory, so that he will have to be the founder of a home health in that territory. Those who do not have the budgetary conditions to endure the burden will receive support from Serbia's budget, but we must insist on solving these problems equally in order to have a more balanced regional development and more uniform development of health institutions in Serbia. It was given in time in procedure as far as the solution is concerned. They've been given the opinion that it's necessary to go to an amendment to the law. We suggested it, and I think it's definitely gonna be in a position to vote on it. It's up to you. I hope we have a majority greater than the ruling for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48958	It's been used for three minutes by a government official. The People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic has the word, and the People's Messenger Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48959	Short. As for the problem of taking over in the jurisdiction of local self-government, it's not our goal to prevent decentralisation, it's another kind of problem. The problem is what we're telling you, Mr. Minister. Local self-government cannot cope with new material costs, because their transfer funds are down 40%. This is our attempt to get the government to return those transfer funds to local self-government. That's the problem. I point out that all the time, because local self-governments have been cut off, because people can't survive, they can't deploy these miserable resources on every possible giving. Three hundred things are pampered with, from environmentals, health care, maintenance of local roads, education, social assistance, social giving, and resources are shrinking. On the other hand, you're right when you speak, Mr. Minister, that the separation rate in Serbia is almost the smallest in the region. I totally agree with you, but you're obliged to say how much of us in the RS budget are paying the average price of the cure. I've told you that a few times. The average price of the drug that goes to the load of RZZO from suppliers, based on the average price of the drug that is calculated on the basis of the average price of the medicine in Italy, Croatia and Slovenia. Let's see what the rate of detachment per capita is there and take that average. It's at least three times more in Serbia. Why are we taking that average? Why don't we take an average drug in Albania or another undeveloped country? When we talk about involving the private sector in the health system, a few years ago you promised a package of basic services that would be defined. What does this basic package of services look like today? Is there? You still have a hundred favors. When we talk about supplemental work, you have state resources and it is achieved by all RS citizens. Where is the exclusive right of a group of people to use state resources? Does this mean that JAT's pilot takes the plane this afternoon and flies and says, "Now I'm doing extra work?" Does that mean the city traffic driver takes the bus and the tram and says he's doing extra work and will drive in the afternoon to secure the existence? It's not a good solution and it opens up corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48960	It's been used for three minutes and 20 seconds by an authorised representative. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48961	I very much respect that you have your opinion, I appreciate it. The absolute amount is the smallest, not a bad rate. Calculate for 2011. It will be very easy to calculate, if 197 billion, for example, are expected to be dinars at the Republic Health Insurance Institute, add to that 15.9 billion budget of the Ministry of Health, which, by the way, is significantly larger this year, because the main investment, of over nine billion dinars, is the end of the Shkodra on Bojana in four cities – Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. If there is an additional and something that is our shared liquid, which is the fiscalisation of every service that is legally paid in health care, whether in private or in state, the fiscal accounts, according to the tax office's records, have 15 billion in ten months, add it up. Add four billion dollars, as many as there are estimates, in military health, which, unfortunately, is still not part of the integrated system, but I hope it will be quick. You will come to this, when you share with the number of Serbians, that money is about 30,000 dinars. We're a small, poor country. I pay 144,000 dinars a year out of my salary. You as MPs too, over 140 grand a year. The average salary in Serbia, or the minimum, when you take the minimum, then their payment is 9.600 at the annual level. We, unfortunately, will have much less money from the budget for a million and 200,000 people who do not have their own income. That's our reality. Next year there will be a year of challenges for solidarity, which we must endure. In the years of the crisis 2009, 2010, and here, unfortunately, and in 2011, will be a serious year of challenges for Serbia's health system. Basic service package. Please don't talk about it anymore. Read the Health Protection Act, it says well inside what is the scope of insurance rights, and what is not covered by the law as a definition of guaranteed rights. When you look at it, I hope one day you'll understand it's a package of services. Whoever insists on a different definition, he is likely pushing for the service package to be reduced. On the contrary, I advocate that this package of services be increased in line with the economic opportunities of the country. I would be most fortunate to have a much smaller number of unemployed people bring in budgets and then have more money, then I guess we'd have more to invest in health because it's the only right to invest in the country's sustainable economic development. When we talk about rates and prices, why the reference prices for medicines for the market are taken, it is defined by law because it is about correcting the price of pharmaceutical industry in Serbia compared to the environment, because we are preparing to be part of a common big market. What did the crisis bring, while we're talking this way, with medications? It led to the fact that in 2009 and 2010, the Insurance Fund started paying with a three-month delay to drugstores for delivered invoices. Hospitals regularly, month after month. It is liquid, a serious liquid this decade, because payments to the Health Insurance Fund in 2006 and 2007 of three or four billion dinars are allowed to organise health care with greater power. Unfortunately, in 2009, 2010, and, I'm afraid that will be the case in 2011, there are serious challenges. The structure of spending money in our insurance, Serbian, looks like a structure in any other country. You have to read it a little bit. I wouldn't bother with it now. It is basic – the absolute amount is small. The rate's not bad, she's comparable to the others. The basic service package exists. You have to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48962	Four minutes have been used to represent the government. The People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov, has the word, and then Milan Dimitrijevic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48963	Dear People's MPs, the chairman often tends to direct the discussion and thinks that now some time has come when we might be able to put this discussion on the first law, that it is already a mature situation. No, it's not. Mr. Minister, what's the problem? Say it loud. (Tomica Milosavljevic, from the place: Do you discuss or flaunt?) ) (President: Without direct communication, please all participants to the session. Wait, you're wasting my time. Please give me back my time. Fair enough. All the things you've shown here are all thesis replacements and everything is a story that you want the basic problem that we're pointing to - don't accept. We're telling you that this is not how we're going to, with speed, bring important system laws. Today, the Health Committee, which was arranged neatly at 1100 hours, was delayed because we had no government representative. Government official, your clerk, he's 20 minutes late. Then we began the debate without the government's opinion. He had materials in his hand and the board members agreed and we worked. So we're telling you that this is not how we're going to pass laws. What you said - denuncents, some NGOs frustrated, what is it now? Reintroduce the category of foreign mercenaries? What's with your "Pistol"? Do you deny that our nation's biologically endangered? That's what you tell me. I'm holding here a demographic depiction of the World Health Organization, whose official you are, where you can see very well how much death is, how common mortality is. The biggest one is with us. Look at the lands around here. Are you denying this or lying to the World Health Organization? Let me get this straight. You got caught -- there's a report, after three months, control, externals, the EU. Would you put that on the site? That's what you owe me. You promise Europe transparency. Will you put that material on the site? That's a specific question. Let go of the stories – it is and it isn't. If we're saying what you're saying, what about the vaccine? You're saying the roof needs to leak. She needs pregnant women and children to suffer? It's the most normal thing about us. But is it normal in my house today that someone pays an epidural in the 21st century? That's normal for you, because you don't know that. Is it normal for women to die from complications of the flu? When you see all the history, none of them got tamifle. None. And at a meeting of Serbia's gynecologists, Montenegro and Republika Srpska, we made a recommendation that each pregnant woman must first get a "tamiflu". That's what you're talking about. That's the problem. The problem is the ten, every tenth that can't go to the doctor because he won't pay. Well done to the mediators. Well done to a series of actions you've taken. But, in general, you have to admit, and you don't admit it, there's a biologically endangered nation. Kill the World Health Organization's data. Say it's not true. You're saying we should read. You should read. Radio therapy in Serbia in 2010, an authorial article by Professor Cikaric, who spent the entire working century on these problems, and you juggle with appliances and figures. What about Torlak? What did you do? What about the Drug Agency? What about the Twinning project with the French? How much money's gone? Did they tell you to accept more and you fired another 70 and changed the director. That's what you're talking about. That's what we're talking about. If we count everything that's wrong with me, and we don't, I won't read what I get as president of the Health Committee from Serbian citizens, it'll be below level. But this, this is based on science, and you're skipping it, and you're making fun of us, and you're telling us some fairy tales and you're trying to insult us. Yes, you can. We're not responsible. We're the opposition. Even if we were guilty of what happened, we paid. It's your shame to have no other argument. We're talking about your policy, so we can look into the future, and you're always going back to some past tense. How did you live in those past days? How do you live today? How do other citizens live? How do doctors live? That's what we're talking about. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48964	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48965	The roof and windows are the most normal thing in maternity and gynecology. The predecessor should have done so and ended when he could, when he was a member of the government and a member of the Serbian Health Insurance Fund Management Board. Then the water was frozen in the toilets, because there were no windows, and the roof was sneezing. It waited for Minister Milosavljevic to come, to launch a project of energy efficiency, and to bring the Gynaecological Clinic in Visegrad as one of the normal, decent, civilized buildings that pregnant women deserve in Serbia and what they deserve in all other maternity homes. NGOs aim to, I suppose, achieve public interest. They're not anti-governments, against the ministry, against the minister. When they start acting like that, they lose the core of an NGO. I wouldn't talk about it anymore. Of course there's been a threat to the nation's biological survival. Six-and-a-half percent have college-educated people in this country. That, when you calculate, is about half a million, and 300,000 educated people have left the country and given birth to children somewhere in Canada, Great Britain, America. Of course it's a challenge for all of us. I wish a minister could handle it, for example. Health. This is solved in a much more difficult and complicated, longer-term way. Nations must run long-term responsible policies. Vaccines - H1N1; pandemic has taken 10 lives of pregnant women. She brought Serbia the mortality that the flu never had. The epidemic occurred earlier than ever in Serbia, which was also a trend in Europe. She's brought new risk groups, fat and pregnant women, overweight people at all. She brought over 60,000 people who were treated in hospitals. You have complete analysis on the Ministry of Health site, you can look at the data. The main challenge was planning in a situation where you had to think about the blackest scenario and be prepared to reduce the cost and burden for the government and the state. We were just acting like one. These are the headlines and some of your discussions here when you called out that no one has done enough, that everyone else has already provided, that we are late, even requested congregation discussions on the subject. Then since 2005, let me remind you, as Government, we have come up with a plan to act before and during the pandemic. In 2006, we responded effectively to the challenge of bird flu among animals. Labs in Backo Monostor and in Baja's Garden among the livestock, to further escalate the problem. That was to be expected. Yes, I am a World Health Organization official on behalf of Serbia and Europe, not an official. So, the official, member of the Executive Board, and with honor and pride, I perform that function. The World Health Organization has advised its members to prepare themselves because it is expected that in the first ten years of this millennium and this century there will be a pandemic and it has happened. At that time when we started to plan, with a working group that was formed just to plan and act during, before and during the pandemic, at that moment large countries had been investing in production for a year and a half before, providing themselves with huge quantities. I'm not a 18th and 19th-century warlock, I'm a doctor, a doctor of medicine who treats his patients and my family as someone who acts on evidence, on scientific evidence, and I'm also acting as a health minister. I listened to the profession. The government has decided to access an emergency purchase of three million doses. After that, we had an offer and a discussion to get into additional purchases during 2010 because it threatened a great danger that seemed very real and serious at the time. On my proposal, these initiatives were suspended, and then on my proposal on January 12th, a suspended procurement of about 800,000 doses. Vaccination started at 1.127 places in one single day. So that I don't run out of time, I'll say that the total cost of the pandemic is over seven billion dinars, over seven billion dinars. Of that, 10% of the cost of the budget reserve for the vaccines that were purchased first and only to protect the citizens. We've been acting under these circumstances, I think, very restrictively, very carefully, I hope responsibly. At that, it is not up to us to judge, of course, but on the epidemiological profession, both internationally and national, although it is said to have been better. There's not one thing that can't be done better. In these circumstances, under constant press and pressure, in addition to the mass events we responded to, it seems to me, correctly, including the University, including the Exit, and then, in one situation and the atmosphere in which the antivaccinal movement, which was inspired by different interest circles, managed to cloud trust even in the World Health Organization, I thanked the members of the group and thanked them for writing – for their commitment to work before and during the pandemic. So, thank you to the predecessor for saying – good for the successful actions. That means we agree that there are successful things in our business together. Of course, there have always been successful things in Serbia in the '50s and '60s and '70s and '80s and '90s and now, there will be such and future ones and God forbid this Parliament adopts a permanent plan for the development of the health system, as it is now the first time in history to adopt it last year, God forbid such a democratic open debate with respect to other people's opinion always. I also want to say that parliament, organising a debate on HIV-AJDS infection a few weeks ago, has shown how it can be a house that thus raises citizens' attention and strengthens education, education. This will contribute, among other things, to restoring the biological capacity of the nation and the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48966	Six minutes and 15 seconds were used time at the government's disposal. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48967	I'm going to say something that the minister just said in his previous address. So don't think I'm in favor of reducing the basic service package, just for business. On the contrary, probably like you. But given the state and the extension of this deadline, I wonder how you'll get the local self-government to deliver that basic package of services in these poor environments. That's one thing. The other thing, when we're talking about funding, Mr. Minister, I'm going to be on the website of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, I found one piece of information that's been fraternizing me, and probably you. So it says the fund manager signed it. It says – August 2008, talks about 2.1 million employees and October 2010 about 1.8 million employees. Data that in 2009, there were 84 billion unpaid contributions, so the non-payment of insurance by the Republic of Serbia's budget for non-income persons, as you mentioned, the growth of course and the price of medicines, energy, medical material. You see, Mr. Minister, what we want to know and with these amendments to the law is – what is it at the end of the 2011 budget? What kind of consumption is that? By warning you and the institutions of this data, if there were 84 billion unpaid contributions in 2009, if the unemployment rate rises, what would be the deficit in the republican health insurance register? Will we be able to honor those basic things? And that's what we need to talk about. Don't think we're always against some of the things you're suggesting, but we certainly open up problems that are significant. We have a budget waiting for us now, and we have this information. Now, when that budget comes on the agenda, and when we ask this question right now, let's see your support, let's see what that government is doing, which is why the budget doesn't make contributions to socially unsecured persons? Who is it that makes such a decision? Why aren't they paying for it? Could the money have been spent on the other side? Do you waste your budget? Are there any violations of certain ministries, which was spoken by the auditor? What's the matter? We need to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48968	Three minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48969	Just for a little while, let me clarify this issue of service packages and taking on general responsibility for my home of health. Some things we need to understand, which is the operational cost of functioning a health institution is the cost that is compensated for by contracts between that institution and the Republic Health Insurance Institute, therefore, the Insurance Fund. Therefore, the contracts that homes of health specify at the beginning of one year for that year have been defined in a way that will pay for the home of health, in terms of the cost of pay. You know, after nine years, a collective contract with representative trade unions was signed, for the first time in this period and this decade, so payouts, payment of energy, payment of consumer material, drugs and everything else. This does not change the responsibility of local self-government for home health, it remains, and that is the largest part of the cost. What's changing? It is changed that the health home is officially established by law by the municipality. SO assumes responsibility for the organisation of primary protection called home of health. It is entrusted with a home of health, where 60m euros were previously invested in 2006 and 2007 in order to improve all central homes and bring one purpose relatively decent. Furthermore, the burden on local self-government is conditioned, but I think it is also a challenge and that this is one obligation of local self-government, the obligation to take care of infrastructure, to take care of the investment costs of maintenance, to take care of the refurbishment of equipment. Those municipalities that have gross national income or a situation below the average in Serbia, they receive the projected funds specifically from the budget, in order to level the conditions for providing health care throughout Serbia. An example of how this works is the city of Belgrade and the predecessor was the city's health secretary and he knows very well what it means to manage a system where the two-digit number of health homes and the KBC are. Of course it's not easy, of course it's complicated to take care of all the hospitals from Avala to Surcin, of course it's not easy to take care of both the banks of Sava and Danube, but the city of Belgrade always has a budget bigger than the republican health investment budget. In one year, when the health ministry has one billion for all, the city of Belgrade has 800 million for its institutions that year. It is natural for him to take responsibility and take care of his institutions. It is natural for Vojvodina, Nis, all cities and all municipalities to do so, and for the poorest to be helped anyway. That's why there's multi-sectoral co-operation, so there's the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which is why there's a concern about regional development. I fully agree that it would be ideal for millions of people to work, if there were no unemployed, those millions of people would pay their contributions, we wouldn't talk about the budget of salaries contributing to health insurance, to people without their own income, because there would be few. When will this happen in Serbia? When the economy is even stronger, when the discipline of the payment of the health contribution is respected and of course I invite you to be constructive in the sense that you too influence that all state institutions are doing their job and that it is not happening that someone can pay the salary without paying a health contribution. I'll remind you, health insurance is a civilization achievement in Serbia, and we're solidarityally sharing that dinar. We sit here paying 140,000 dinars a year in that health insurance fund register. Someone who earns three times less, pays 40,000 a year, and someone who earns another twice as much is paying 70,000, and someone who pays nothing but the state pays for it what it has, and we get a favor in that way that's close to everyone, no matter how much he pays, and that's solidarity in the works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48970	The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48971	Finally, to thank Mr. Minister for admitting that the nation's biological threat is a real problem. If it's a real problem, it's the biggest and none of your documents are so defined and that's the problem. In a peaceful atmosphere, we've come to something that's really constructive. And put this on the site, this three-month analysis that you've been seen here nice and quiet, and we solve that problem, so we don't charge ourselves, neither you nor us, that we're malicious, we're neither like this. Put that analysis on, so let's see if it says "diaster" or not, because for me, it's a "diaster" that in that outbreak of viral flu, our Torlak doesn't have a vaccine. I watched, and I showed in the Assembly here the publication "Help" and again some party organization that dealt with it here, which gave an analysis of how in a simple way Torlak could become a leader again in the region. No, it's something objective and it can't be replaced by another story, and even when you see as the finale that the surgeon runs that institution, where does the surgeon run the Vaccination Institute? If we agreed that this was a problem, what's the difference with us? We feel that the measures are not good. Primary health care, prevention, that was supposed to be this foundation and that main job you were doing. When you post this to us and put on your website what Europe has recorded and when you see how much you have allocated for primary health care, then we say, it is not enough. That's the story we're telling you. We can't agree enough. You do this, you put this study on the site, you put it in the documents, you tell the plan and the program that's been running so late, and you'll always find some justification, and I agree that there can be every excuse you want, in a country that works this way. Declare these goals as you are obliged to, again, a key document, so 21 goals for the 21st century European Department of the World Health Organization. That's what we say, we don't say anything else. That's what our teachers say, from which we learned medicine. We're not telling our story. We're not readers or readers on our own. We've been consulting the most prominent experts who haven't had the right to vote here in years and we're wondering why. Just tell me, how much time does our parliamentary group have?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48972	Three minutes have been used, and you currently have 22 minutes and 10 seconds left. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48973	The problem with the EU may have a previous speaker, I really have no problem. The European Union is Serbia's largest individual donor and I can proudly say that there has never been a problem, firstly, in explaining the objectives of the programme, and secondly, in acquiring support and assistance and I hope that it will remain so, despite the different aspirations to stop it. The paper, which the predecessor spoke of, was a working document used by the European Commission authorities, you must ask the European Commission where it is being published, in which way it is being published. If I get a positive view of the European Commission delegation in Belgrade, we will put it on the site as we put everything else on the site, as we have always advocated that the work be fully public and that every data is open and available. The mention of the drug agency, it can serve the pride of each and every one of us here. It is right, the building is the result of gifts from EU citizens to Serbian citizens, taxpayers and all other citizens of Serbia. In general, the area of pharmaceutical activity was regulated by the first law in 2004, and then this year, and it was so engaged and adopted that we could, tomorrow, join the EU, on December 21st, we wouldn't have to change that law for a single word and I think it's a good thing and it serves the honor of each of us. It is an institution that is serious, which has been established and has not existed before, and I think it is best that those who do not understand it ask a pharmacist to explain to them how important it is in one system of the existence of an independent and professional organisation that is doing drug registration, quality control and everything else. As for Torlak, he was never better when you took the last 15-17 years. The Torlak, unfortunately in the 1990s, when it was supposed to have the biggest investment, lost its certificate, unfortunately due to international sanctions. After that, it was very difficult to get on that train. The state managed to invest in the restitution and revitalisation of Torlak one million every year. For example, I can tell you that in the pandemic of the H1N1 lab Torlak was the most reliable place for the region. It has also diagnosed people who are not citizens of Serbia at all, but Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, with full confidence were seen in the results. That lab was equipped just in the years preceding the pandemic threat, and it did a very good job. As far as production is concerned, unfortunately, it's not easy. It might seem to someone on the side that it's relatively easy, simply doable, I wouldn't agree to that. According to promises that were even publicly presented by former directors, and I sometimes got the impression that this would go easily and quickly, however, as none of the things go easy or fast, neither production nor medicine nor vaccine is quite as simple. We're trying to get Torlak on his feet. We have a plan for the additional state to invest and finally find a strategic partner, with the investment of the state, to find the way to be there on the world market even better than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48974	Four minutes of time spent at your disposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) It concludes the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Completion of the Commons of Health Workers: Dušanka Plečević, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Milica Miljana Miladinović, Donka Banović, Milan Zamirić and Nikosović. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this law supplementing the Chamber Act, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1 and I suggest that this member be deleted. Article 1 complements this law by adding Articles 27a, 27b and 27v to the existing Chamber Act after Article 27. The addition of these members is done directly by mixing ministers and other professional organisations, which is inadmissible, since it is about organisations that are founded as independent and professional. These changes give the minister powers that do not belong to him. It is an attempt to extend the minister's jurisdiction, as it stands in the protest letter of the Medical Chamber. I note that these supplements do not consult the health care workers' chambers, and hence we have their dissatisfaction. It's obvious that the statutes of the chamber have leaks, and they can't change and correct violently. The minister now appears as a bypass, he said in the principle debate, conveying shortcomings in the chamber statutes he saw after four years, although the problems treated by the complemented members appeared at the very beginning of the constitution of individual chambers, more specifically the Stomatology Chamber. Many illegal activities took place there, and they were also introduced to the Ministry of Health and the Committee on Health and Family, which held a debate on the subject. Some associations sent letters from these institutions, warned us of abuse in the work of the dental chamber, and expressed concern about the passivity and non-responsibility of the Ministry of Health for long-term violations of the law in this chamber, since the Ministry of Health, as well as the Ministry of Finance, has control over the legality of the work of these chambers. Instead of introducing administrative surveillance over a chamber that does not function and leaving public authority to the professional branching, such as the Serbian Medical Society, the ministry has taken over the management of the chamber. The proposer's intention is to allow the continuous operation of the chambers through the formalisation of the electoral procedure, you wrote in an explanation of the proposal for the addition of this law. You didn't define it fully related to Article 27v either. It states that, even after two consecutive elections procedures have been carried out for members of the Chamber Assembly in accordance with Article 27v of this Act, if the selection of members of the Chamber Assembly, i.e. the establishment of the Chamber Assembly, is not carried out, the Committee shall appoint the Director of the Chamber, as well as the temporary Management Board of the Chamber. The Director of the Chamber, as well as the temporary Management Board of the Chamber, shall carry out the tasks until the final selection of the chamber body in accordance with this law. We don't know that time limit, as long as it happens, or we don't know until when this time period of temporary control is for these chambers, or for the management of these chambers. In that sense, we expect this law to be re-emerged on the agenda with amendments and additions. This all says that the law is indeterminate and that there are shortcomings and that the Ministry does not have adequate and timely answers through the laws it proposes. It is no wonder that this Ministry rarely, almost never or very rarely accepts the amendments submitted by the opposition and we always get almost the same reasons for not accepting the amendment. That's why we have frequent changes and additions to health care laws. The changes reassemble the chambers that were built four years ago. They, however, will not solve the problems that exist in other chambers, such as the question of the legitimacy of congregation decisions, as a percentage small number of members participate in its work, financial management, abuse of the conduct of disciplinary proceedings before courts of honor, the existence of stakeholders etc. That is why this amendment requires the removal of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48976	Two minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48977	Thank you. I'd like to explain something to you. For healthcare professionals, not for everyone, but for doctors, dentists, pharmacists, the chamber has special significance. It does not just mean an institution established by law to be an independent organisation. It has enormous symbolic and essential significance, because it represents the return of decades of justice to the historical scene. I don't want to be pathetic, but that's exactly it. The independent chamber was formed by the Chamber Act, the result of a huge advisory framework that was implemented for three years. Discussions were conducted in all professional associations, at all universities, in nearly cities, in almost all branches of the Serbian Doctor's Society. There were more ideas, but the chamber was returned because it existed until the law of 1946 was abolished. The medical esnaf experienced the return of the chamber as a gesture of respect for the value of our profession, its special status in society and its importance for the citizens. A chamber capable of public authority, and public authority means the state authority is entrusted to an independent professional institution. It's a huge step in self-regulatory profession. The only legal profession has, in this way, entrusted powers that are public. Regardless of some other chambers that also try to only regulate professions such as engineering and others, the longest tradition of medical profession in self-regulatory is. So the laws are passed in such a way, and I can really testify to you, that the respected opinions of the profession are almost to the smallest detail, each member agreed with the participation of many public debaters and even when they tried to get things back to square one, to relativate certain groups that had some of their own interests. The chambers were founded as national, regardless of ownership, regardless of geographical division. So, chambers are the value of Serbia's health system. We tried everything we could not to allow one of the five chambers to get involved in a way that expired the mandate to all the authorities, that there was no power to call new elections and to put us in a position to change the Law of Chambers in the Assembly, only to ensure that there was a continuity of public authority, because these public powers are most important to the citizens. Licensing, the possibility of withdrawing a license, is one way to boost the quality of work and strengthen citizens' confidence in the healthcare system The previous speaker said – why the minister took public authority from the ministry should give it to the Serbian medical society. Whoever told you that or if you were thinking about it that way, it just means I respect that you have that attitude, but that means you're not from our branch and you probably didn't read the law, because it's good in the law. Public authority may, unless carried out in the chamber, be at 120 days, on a certain deadline taken by the Chamber, and within that time limit shall be carried out by the Ministry of Health. It's an extra job, it's not easy to do at all, but we have to do it because it's a citizen's interest. Again, please consider whether it makes sense for us to spend so much time on one thing that is in the interest of all doctors, dentists, pharmacists, biochemists, technicians, but also in the interest of citizens to ensure that when it is stuck, we are people, unless there are regulations that regulate our behavior, it happens, unfortunately, that what happened to the dental chamber, that the mandate expires to all the authorities chosen, and that the only deputy director of the chamber is now in the current mandate and that public authority is performed by the Ministry of Health. Please help us provide new, legal, legally guaranteed elections for the dental chamber. I also ask you to allow us to open all questions during the first half of 2011, through a broader, more contentious debate, about what else we can fix in our regulations. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48978	It's been used for five minutes. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard one argument, and you heard Mrs. Plecevic's explanation, so in order to properly inform the citizens, we should expose the problem to the end. What's this about? Four years have passed, the dental chamber has not chosen its organs in a regular procedure. The Health Committee and the Family Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly have been getting performances from the top officials of the organisation, the president of the Assembly and the chairman of the board of directors, in which they pointed out a number of legal problems, where the law is being violated and I don't know what, there were also suspicions of crime, but let's skip it now. We've asked three times in the last two years for the health ministry to react and prevent these anomalies. Nothing's been done. Now we come and pray. What do you pray for, demission, don't beg. We've been telling you for two years -- please fix the chamber situation. You have the exact records, I won't read it, it's unnecessary. So it's the subject of discussion tonight. What's the problem with the chamber? The problem with the chamber is that same law was passed in a hurry. As a system pack, he's with the Health Protection Act. If it was with the Red Cross, I can't remember exactly, in 2005. We've been having a little discussion again. Here's the problem that you didn't take the chamber as a professional organization in a serious and real way. You have two conflicts of interest in the chamber, both legitimate. You have the interest of private doctors and you have the interest of state doctors. That uncompromising interest has led right to a problem in this chamber. The dentists, you know, crossed the majority to be private. We drive them a little bit from state institutions, they're in less than they were. With these changes, you don't solve the problem. As the chamber is, in your opinion you're glorifying it, anyway, I don't mind if the chambers exist. We thought in time, to be honest, that you should give these public powers to the Serbian medical society, which is over 130 years old, which has no law, which is not recognized as an institution of national importance, which could bear this burden, because it has infrastructure and has everything it takes, but you haven't done it. Now you have not listened to the Health Committee and now please – let us be constructive. Why weren't you constructive for two years, when we told you – resolve the situation? With these changes, he can't. With these changes, you can't handle it, with a radical change. The first sentence – Serbia's Medical Chamber expresses the deepest protest on how to propose and content of the supplement law. You didn't consult them. They come to the Committee and say, "We will not, we will appeal to the Constitutional Court." Wait, who are you talking to, who are you partnering with? If you haven't sat down with them to make a deal, they tell you, in Article 1. The chamber laws are independent, you can't re-establish them, and you're re-establishing them. You can't even give the Serbian Doctor's Society back that right anymore, especially by an undefined formulation of another professional organisation. He can't. What other professional organizations? There's dozens of them. If they all answer, how are you going to regulate it? Your provisions are imprecise, as you have given them, obnoxious, and if a man strictly interprets them incomprehensible. Stop it, this isn't good. The chamber, as you imagined, after four years of existence, had 6% of doctors gone to elections in Belgrade and 13% for Serbia as a whole. What does that mean? They're your legal institutions, but they don't have legitimacy. Why don't they? It's exactly what you're doing. You want them to be transmissions. Whose? Yours. It can't. They rebel and they fight. What does the chamber want? What do the doctors want? What is our unique interest? So, I can't have two conflicting interests in the chamber ignoring each other. Our only interest is professional and scientific, and here we are unique. Where's he represented? In the Serbian Doctor's Society, and that is the end of the story, which is extreme, which is tormented to survive. An institution that is one of the oldest of the association, which is not even a member of the World Medical Association, but a chamber. Look at the miracle, the new young chamber. These are basic problems and can't be solved like this, Serbian radicals won't. We want a chamber. You said, "Courtesy of Honor." We don't want to be tried anymore. We're being tried in the press every day. We're being tried in courts. We want a chamber to defend the doctors. The idea that we're judging each other, we won't. We talked, there's a Criminal Code, there's a bunch of members out there chasing us and chasing us. Let them chase us, and they should, and let them judge us. We're losing civil rights, we're losing our license, end of story.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48980	Five minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48981	I understand there's a problem that's not easy to bridge. So you're sitting in some government as a minister and you have a law where you've established chambers and they never start. You wrote that you would create chambers, but the waist will not be such a chamber, because it is not independent, because it is formed by a minister, because it is not autonomous. What am I talking about? A chamber that had never been revived, which was stipulated by law at the time when the predecessor was a minister in the government. He probably thinks that's how it works when you try to build chambers. But that's not how it works. These chambers were founded with a huge professional professional consensus of profession across Serbia, regardless of political belongings, regardless of political sympathy or unsympathies. I don't go from who the political party is from, to us being part of a major esnaf and having a serious responsibility, above all, to the citizens, to the people we teach that school, which is not easy, and after that, we spend our whole lives in our business more than we get. I will always advocate the truth, and the truth is that a huge number of people in white coats are doing their job fairly, persistently, sacrificedly, and that a small number of black coats can never cast a shadow on the vast majority of professions. The predecessor says, "We've been having a little discussion. We debated a lot. We need to do a little bit more work, work everyone in their place as much as we can and a lot more with the debates. As far as the chamber is concerned, things are crystal clear, practical that they can't be clearer. Of course, under the law, administrative oversight of the work of the chamber was carried out, of course no autonomy was violated in any chamber for one single second, and of course, in the preparation of such an amendment of the law, a new management of the chamber was consulted, or we were informed that we would have to take a step that was not popular, which must be guaranteed by law. Why? Because there's a public interest at stake. For nothing else. In view of the argument that the chambers should exist or should be a medical association to obtain public authority, it should be true to tell the truth that there are different international experiences. There are no chambers in the UK. That's what the British Medical Council does, the U.K. Doctor's Association. In some other countries, health councils at the country level or with the help of the association are doing so, and yet in much of the Central European countries, the chamber exists. There was a chamber in Serbia and in the old Yugoslavia and before World War II. Of course there was also a Serbian medical society, which is one of the oldest in Europe, which I can proudly say is the highly raised torch of the medical profession in Serbia, one of the first national institutions of this people and this country. For example, today I've shared 110 new diplomas for the primaries. The primary award committee is not located anywhere but in the Serbian Medical Society, which decides which election is being made and which is proposed by the minister and minister for the eighth year, as long as he tries to do this best he can, despite everything, just sign what the Serbian Medical Society has ordered him to do. Why? Because it's the only right way. Then, in continued medical education, the Serbian Medical Society has invaluable importance, invaluable importance in the organisation of courses, the Health Council of Serbia has accredited these courses, implemented them by colleges, associations, sections of the Serbian Medical Society, and the chambers are fourth pillars that record points and based on these points says this man reads or forgets himself, went into politics, forgot his profession, no longer needed to deal with his work, far away, I hope that none of you colleagues forget their profession and that he keeps it as the most valuable thing we have. In keeping that most valuable thing we have chambers are one of the most valuable things. Of course, I'm saying, I'm asking for constructiveity and for understanding and it has a figurative meaning. I know there are people here you just can't talk to about arguments. These people have a mission, they react to a button, they discuss as they're told, as they're written. You can't explain to them why we're changing the law. Because we want to make it impossible for a group or an individual to put an end to the work of any chamber, because it interferes with the public interest, if everyone's heart is of public interest, and it would have to be, given that you are all representatives of the people's will, I have been elected to this Parliament as you are, but I have been given the decision of the ruling coalition for European Serbia to lead the Ministry of Health and I am trying to do it the best I can and can. I expect a minimum of understanding from you. Take a constructive look at the amendments to the Chamber Act, it is important because of the dentist in Serbia, it is important for the citizens of Serbia and it is important for all other health workers not to repeat such a failure in any other chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48982	Five minutes and 30 seconds have been used at the disposal of a government representative. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48983	About the amendments to the Law on the chambers of health workers, if Mr. Minister does not see part of his responsibility in this problem, then the discussion is completely useless. So, where's the problem? There's been a problem with the dental chamber, which practically doesn't exist. Mr. Minister, two years ago, and perhaps more, we were telling you the following thing: part of the dental chamber feels that the assembly is irregular. Why irregular? Because the congregations were written with a pen. The assistant health minister, who was present at the time, received papers. It's been going on for a while, so it's the first signal. The second signal appears a seal that is claimed to be irregular. The president of the assembly asks the Ministry of State and local self-government to respond when the seal was given to the dental chamber. He's getting a response that the seal hasn't been received, that the ministry hasn't issued a seal. The problem is getting deeper. At that time, we demand that extraordinary supervision be introduced, that financial supervision be carried out on the spending of funds. Is that what happened, Mr. Minister? We call on the director of the Chamber, the chairman of the Management Board, the president of the Parliament of the Stomatology Chamber, and in one of the talks, the director of the former Stomatology Chamber says at one point: "The Assembly is attended by an assistant minister of health, who is not a doctor," and then we get an answer from the assistant minister: "Don't ever mention this again." We're looking again for the Ministry to introduce extraordinary expert surveillance, to control the legality of the work of the chamber. The problem is going south and then we get into a situation, when all the legal deadlines leak, to find a Solomonian solution, and to change the law on health care workers' chambers. I see here your responsibility, Mr. Minister, for inaction, and there's been enough time to do something, not to get into a situation where the dental chamber is blocked and that's why we have to change the law. There's a responsibility for incendiary. There's a problem. You simply didn't want to solve the problem, you didn't know or you didn't know, anyway, irrelevant. Have you read what the Medical Chamber says on the amendment of this law, what does your waist say? You don't need any comment, you don't need to discuss anything else. What does the Director of the Medical Chamber say about this amendment to the law? So there's a problem. You didn't want to solve the problem, you didn't know or you didn't know. Where's the responsibility now? Is there any responsibility at all, or are you always right? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48984	Six minutes of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48985	The essence of the chamber is its independence, its autonomy. That's exactly the core of the regulations that define the chamber and its work. Since she is an independent legal person, she is subject to the laws of this country. Those who investigate its financial operations, it is known who it is, these are financial inspections, and they, according to reports that came from both the Assembly Committee on Health and Family and the health ministry's applications, have been carried out. The health ministry has one single mechanism that works in relation to chambers and, unlike what the predecessor incorrectly says, it is probably a failure or ignorance that is not called extraordinary expert supervision, but is called administrative supervision. Therefore, the Department of Health's administrative supervision has the right to determine whether the chamber is acting by law and in accordance with the regulations or not. That administrative surveillance has been carried out. And now, like all previous times, it has been tried, as part of a repeated communication with the President of the Chamber Assembly, to explain that it is in the interest of all dentists, including a predecessor who seems to me by profession, and in the interest of Serbian citizens whom these dentists in Serbia should help, so it is in the interest of the profession to conduct elections when the mandate expires, despite repeated initiatives, talks. I repeat: the chambers are independent. The moment they were formed as independent, the state entrusted them with this autonomy, to be self-regulatory of the profession and to be responsible for their work. To whom should they be responsible? By law, institutions that control the respect of the law, and in a moral sense -- Serbian citizens, because they represent an expression of self-regulation of the profession, which is good that it exists. Our profession should have mechanisms that make the difference between cereals and dolls, which alone insists that the patient-doctor relationship should be crushed to the highest possible level of trust and quality of work, alone, to influence the progress of the entire society by improving its profession. We learned this from the bright predecessors of this profession who, 200 years ago, fought the plague in these parts, who were struggling with tuberculosis, who were trying to come up with regulations that would bring us closer to the modern world. The root is deep and it reaches out, I will remind you, it is not burned, eight centuries back – to Studenica, when the first hospital in Serbia was founded. So the chambers are much more valuable, more significant, brighter than we're trying to bring them down to some kind of administrative-burocratic level. Autonomy is guaranteed by the Chamber Law, and no health minister in this republic of Serbia will be able to disband chambers, enter and interfere with autonomy. It's exactly in the exposé of the predecessors that is contradictory and adequate. So, it's said that by changing the law, you interfere with the chamber, you disrupt its autonomy, and then it's said, for the last two years you haven't done enough to carry out the elections. Then I'm as responsible as I am. No, the predecessor, among other things, is responsible because he's a dentist by profession. Why didn't he go to his chamber? Why didn't he talk to his colleagues? Why didn't he influence his working environment, where he worked, if he didn't already work today and influence, indeed, the collegiate action that the chamber realized how high the level of responsibility in the organisation of new elections. We have all shown ourselves together as insufficiently serious professions and unless we are able to regulate it by law – then it is not good. Then he reacts by some other act. I try to ask those who know these things better, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a bit of an amateur lawyer because I've been doing these things for a few years, I'm a bit of an economist-amateur, but, first of all, I'm a doctor. Then I ask the lawyers and people tell me nicely – the autonomy of the chamber is guaranteed. You can't do anything just like that. You can only go to the Assembly, propose amendments to the law, which may seem to you to cut Gordi's knot with a sword, but sometimes it has to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48986	Four minutes and 40 seconds of time was used. The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48987	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's another thing we seem to agree on. Congratulations, Minister. The law on the Serbian Doctor's Society should now stem from his words that it is the most important institution of the health system with such a tradition. There's one chamber that's smaller. Would you like to make a law on the Serbian Doctor's Society? It's already something that's positive and constructive. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, but I'm having a bit of a problem with that personal tone of yours. You say he doesn't read, he goes into politics. Yeah, he went into politics, but so did you. I guess you're the first. Don't blame us for going into politics now. In my opinion, it's an honorable engagement and a duty. Why are you talking about this in a peorative way? You've resented your colleagues for not saying so. What do you mean, it's not? We talked so much on the board? He was the most active in pointing to these problems. So all you had to do was hear it. But you don't come on board, so you don't know. You can see how uninformed you are. You should come to the board, as all normal ministers are coming. You didn't come once. You send these martyrs, and then we fight with them a little bit, talk a little bit, and that's how the board goes. So that's your lack of information problem. Mr. Minister, you boast of various lectures. If you respect me, I was in Stockholm this fall at the Nobel Forum. There I chaired, at the Caroline Institute, at a symposium dedicated to a man who was celebrating a jubilee and who was a member of the Nobel Committee. That man was here on Friday, along with us, discussing professional problems. This fall I was also in Italy to give lectures. That's the third time I've ever been on a call to give a lecture. Are you telling me I left my waist and I'm unprofessional? Why are you saying that? To whom did you send this – leave the waist, the story on the button? Leave those qualifications, please, in the future. Don't do that. There's no need. That's not how we qualify you. We're talking about the results of the policy that's being realized. We appreciate you as an extraordinary expert, and we've said it a hundred times, and we've given it up. That's what's true. But now we're talking about results, concrete numbers and numbers. Don't make that level of discussion run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48988	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48989	That's how we can agree. I am fully in favour of such a tone, which is constructive, which brings academic spirit into parliament and that is fighting for a regulation that regulates the Serbian Doctor's Society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48990	10 seconds of time available has been used. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48991	So, I'm going to say a few more sentences and I'm not going to answer any more of this law. Mr. Minister, you're right about administrative oversight. It's my fault. It's probably a lapus. There's another thing. If something is wrong from the beginning, and you have a clear signal that the Assembly was not regular, then you have a seal that the Ministry of State and local self-government say never issued, at first, isn't that enough signal to introduce administrative surveillance? Isn't that enough to show that something's going on outside the prescribed laws? That's when you were supposed to react, at first. If you'd reacted then, we wouldn't have gotten into this situation. That's exactly what I'm saying. You didn't want to or you couldn't react. That's why we came to a dead end, and that's why we now have amendments to the Chamber Act. There's a problem. Indemnity. I don't like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48992	A minute and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48993	There is no instrument in the Chamber Act, except for administrative oversight, which you can act on the chamber. She's been given a lot of trust. What I'm trying to say is this. If we don't correct, not just the law, if we don't correct our practice, someone will once ask a question in this House -- do they even deserve so much trust to be entrusted to them as an independent institution? Maybe someone here will propose more mechanisms for State interference and control. That, of course, is not good. Neither for chambers nor for profession, and it is generally not good for the citizens of Serbia, because the chambers essentially have a self-regulatory profession. This question is not essential. That's technical. The dental chamber and its members chose their organs, according to the law, and they were given the freedom to choose them. No one influenced them during the election. As they chose each other, so they functioned, while their mandate lasted. It is obvious that there is not enough responsibility in people who have been elected to very responsible functions, who do not understand that by unthinking their functions, they have not called and conducted the elections, despite a clear finding of administrative oversight, despite the advice, despite the talks, despite consultations that have been carried out and centrally with the authorities of the chamber and with individual branches of the chamber. The instrument for further influence does not exist and this member of the law is the introduction of the instrument. If you do not make the choice within the legal time limit, then the procedure will be repeated as in the formation of the chamber. The board will be formed, as at the beginning. He's gonna make the election. If you don't do it, then the acting officer will be appointed who will be in charge of holding the election. If you don't, then you're gonna have to deal with breaking the rules. That's what's being introduced here. We're introducing a tool, a tool to solve the problem, because it's a public interest. Not because it is – let’s say that there is a chamber that collects membership fees and who knows what it does, but because it is a public interest in the withdrawal of licenses, giving licenses, continuous education. The public interest is that chambers ensure their members in the event of an unwanted outcome of treatment. The public interest is to be in charge of the doctor – the patient. It's not a job for a minister. It's not a job for the state. It's a job for a profession. In an empty space, it must also be done by the minister and the Serbian Medical Society and associations, but it is essentially a job for an independent professional institution that is self-regulatory of the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48994	Three minutes of time being used. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48995	We're moving on to the chamber story. We really went to that broad and already principled debate tonight in all the cities and all the colleges, where we are. The chamber is talking about their minister interfering, the minister is defending them with fire. More fire than when the Chamber Act was passed. You'd say best friend and greatest associate, doctors and chambers. All of us and Serbian citizens say there is something rotten in the state of Denmark about the ministry for eight or 10 years, with regard to the problems we face. The minister himself says that next year there is a big problem waiting for those who will not have the opportunity to be treated, will not be health insurance and will be even more. I know a lot of people who couldn't do radiation therapy because they didn't have health insurance. The various marifettelus of the fund seemed a concession to try treatment, however, they did not have time to operate, nor to do much. So nothing's that great. Great amounts of money are gone. In eight years' time, it could have been a lot more. A lot of requests shouldn't be made. What do we want now? Why am I saying this? The chamber's supposed to take care of itself, killing us with a story about taking care of the doctor's interest. I don't see it. About the captain's silence, she didn't take any doctors for protection. They keep themselves safe, they keep their incomes, they keep our bananas a month away. The great money our minister didn't report. Every February he's due to receive a financial plan, a report of administrative oversight. It's possible that on the Health Committee, it's a report, but it's not presented to us here by the president of the Committee. Where's the money? Where are they going? Who pulled any more damage if he made a mistake somewhere in the profession? The chamber's waiting to be sentenced by the court doctor, so she can take his license and see how to handle herself. According to all the newspapers, newspaper records and articles when they are read, they seem to be in an uninterrupted war and in an uninterrupted debate. The dentist’s chamber should also care for the condition of its doctors, about the condition of the patient’s health. The law has arranged for a child under the age of 18 to be entitled to free treatment. What if it's a high school kid who turned 18 in June, he can't go on until the end of the school year, in May or January, he won't be able to heal himself? A student won't be able to. He'll have to pay. What kind of anomaly is that? According to the Health Protection Act, we said that regular students can be treated for free, etc. Why can't dental protection, because it wouldn't help many dentists not to be in some arrangement, where most of them went into private practice, dictate prices. How are the funds going to close the contracts? What did we do? Is there a chamber? Does the chamber give an opinion on what we've done with this now just because the Law on Local Self-Government says that the primary health care is decentralised, we have to disappear and give three years to take over. Well, he can't. The municipality in Kniæ cannot take over. Let's change the law somewhere. What does decentralisation mean on the primary level? What better way for a doctor who deals by definition to know if he's singled out in his own place or region? It benefits local self-government -- it sets up a director, and when it's due to pay a job on a phone book, you want to go to Kragujevac, ask the names, you know who the directors are, they're yours, anyway. Check it out, I don't think I'm checking in, I know these people personally, and you know a lot more than I do. So you can't say there's no party paint in the reception. If there's a problem, change that too. She kept the state central. Is there anything more important than primary health care? Batut kills himself to implement primary health care measures, to send transmissions of ideas, methods, projects, and then put it in local self-government, so as much money as anyone can. Did you guys get that? That equipment will expire, and a guaranteed deadline, and time and burn again. What are the boards doing? They're instituting participation. Now at the level of local self-government their director, their board of directors and patients are paying both blood counts, and urine and examinations, non-standard survey by interns. So where are you gonna take him in secondary custody? Who's gonna pay for that? When's the turn? You thought about passing laws and that idea of decentralisation and you put people on the line to pay wherever the lock was caught. Then change it from the beginning, wherever you put the decentralisation of health is wrong, change it or let it work for whom it suits, let Belgrade hold everything it can. After all, it is also the foundation and concept of this political doctrine on regionalisation, this Belgrade that has more than everyone else, and you are talking about which you have been in power for eight or ten years and could have prevented that so-called. Serbia's Belgrade. Now again, as the chamber proposes legal solutions, the chamber takes care of doctors, the minister cannot interfere, the chamber is advisory, same as the minority as the national council. He's just collecting licenses. Now he knows how to pick up a kid in elementary school, it's not a bad paying job. When we look at Article 27b, and when we look at Article 2, it simply seems that the conflict with Article 8 and Article 9: if a director dares to call the elections, because he probably won't get a mandate, and it all has some interest in the second term, and he somehow makes a problem and the minister appoints a committee, the board doesn't hold elections, as it says in Articles 8 and 9, but Article 2 states that the board has the authority to call elections for members of the chamber until the election of members of the chamber. What chamber members? They don't choose, they become members when they graduate and take the papers. How do you become a member of the chamber? I don't understand. What's the board of chamber members picking them up? "and establishing a chamber assembly according to this law." That's it. So this committee would, in its position of 2nd, continuously conduct the elections by defined terms and deadlines that you've given. However, in Article 27b, you say – if two consecutive voting procedures are carried out for members of the Chamber Assembly, but you speak more precisely which members, etc., do not make the choice, then the chamber will appoint temporary ones and they will temporarily continue to choose. It's impossible to remain position 2 because the board chooses on a continuous basis. If I understand well, though I may be like you amateur lawyer, if you pulled that story, who listens, you're either on the border of profession and politics or more on one side, like me, but well, the legal interpretation of Article 27v, is in colluding with the position of two members of 27b. That's why I think we should fix it. It's a technical correction. So this doesn't deny your concept of seducing order where you lost order because of some disrespect for the medical fela or dental fele towards the minister, according to a sense of responsibility. It's more like a private chamber than a chamber that defends social interest. That's how it is now, and it's probably gonna mature, and there's gonna be new changes to the law, so we'll see what turns out to be. I thought of this as a legal editorial of the text. So I imagined the abnormality of this attitude. If I'm wrong, explain it differently than in an explanation that you've convinced me of all these members. I don't need that for sure. I also understand how it's written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48996	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48997	Could it have been done more than 2002 to today? I'm sure it could. Since this isn't the subject of debate, but it kind of connects itself to amendments and members all the time, I sum up that in two sentences. When I took an oath before you, not personally, but some of you were in parliament in June, 2002, when at the invitation of Mr. Zoran Djindjic, one of the most valuable people in modern Serbian history, who, unfortunately, was killed with masculine, accepted that as a doctor and a professor as much as I could for my profession and citizens working in this place, the health system was on its knees. I answered the press then, I promise nothing, I'll do the best I can to try to restore dignity to both patients and doctors. It's been running me the whole time, and I think in December 2010, it's hard for any of my colleagues to say that the health system is back on its knees today. No, he's on his feet. On a sentence that Belgrade has everything it can hold, let's go now to Knic and Kragujevac. In Kragujevac it was radiated that year when I became Minister of Zero Patients, no one was irradiated, for simple reasons there was nothing necessary for humans to irradiate. There's modern oncology today. Kragujevac has two beds for the treatment, the radiation of the thyroid tumor, as well as Sremska Kamenica, and Belgrade does not, but are the capacities of the Republic of Serbia and patients from Belgrade travel either to Kragujevac or Kamenica. Why? Because it's so rational, because it's just got the capacity to use those four beds in the best possible way. The Kragujevac clinical center was then not a clinical center, not just by name. He had nothing to do with some things he had to do even as a general hospital. Since then, he has a modern magnetic resonance, a modern multi-slice scanner, an angeographic capacity in which a young colleague performs interventions on brain neurosms in Serbia and has excellent results. Nuclear medicine is currently doing procedures that are neither done in Belgrade nor in Kamenica, nor in Nis, and I am proud of that. I hope tonight someone from Kragujevac is watching and listening to what you say and what I say, you who come from that house as employees with a lot of experience and I who come as your colleague from another house also with a lot of experience. We could talk about this a lot. Kragujevac enters the process of completing the clinical centre in 2011, as well as Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad. We're going to build a whole new chest surgery building that's going to be across the street from surgery, and what looks amazing is going to become a complete reality, and it's good that it is. There's not one of those little places that's forgotten and the Ministry of Health, if anything can be recognized for all these years, it's that it hasn't forgotten anyone from north to south, from east to west. I even felt that opposition MPs in breaks invited me to talk to me and ask me about their houses, about their health care, about the infirmary, about the hospital, and as you well know, we always talked constructively in line with plans and goals. I repeat, the chambers are autonomous, independent. It doesn't matter if anyone in the dental chamber respected the minister. They showed disrespect for their profession. The elected officials allowed their mandate to expire, not to discuss the elections, and therefore we propose to introduce a mechanism to prevent such behaviour in the future, i.e. to find an alternative solution to insist that the chamber respects what the state has given, you here as representatives of the People's Will, which is a public authority that is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48998	It's been used for four minutes. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u48999	Mr. Minister, the first face of the one, the second face of the plural, the usual manner of your political group and in the congregations of the local, Kragujevac, Knic, but we don't know. That's what I see tonight in the Assembly. What are you, is it your capital that is enormous enough to buy half the clinics around Belgrade to make Kragujevac get a magnetic resonance? Do you know why they call me the most? To find a place for them to lie down to irradiate, to find a place for them to perform hip surgery, for this or what, for what the whole of Serbia lacks. When I spoke of Belgrade, I said let Belgrade do what it can at the primary level. Let him pick up all the homes of health and pay everyone and give them doubles if he can, but I know it's gonna be hard in Kniæ. It's all full and air conditioning. I know very well what they look like. They all keep it together just the same. There will come a time when local self-government will not be able to have heating in Kniæ in schools, let alone provide re-promatter for the laboratory. They have to pay 800 dinars for laboratory analysis. They have to pay for an unstandard service to be examined by the interns, they have to pay for the spirometry. Everywhere. You can't possibly not know that. We know that the service package pays RZZO. It's not going to go into a favor they're going to pay, because in advance, you've denivelled it, you've removed what professions should be and not in the home of primary health. Keep that primary under the Republic's paw. We're holding secondarys. We're holding Tertiary. The Kragujevac is tertiary. Could he have become a clinical center if he had a college? He needed the equipment, too. You bring the standards yourself, the paperwork, the monster. You can't have teachers and calling without having a machine to work on. She's not going with each other. Should we take your personal gift as the gift of your party? I don't understand why we gave. You gave it because it is your duty, because you have a duty to control the consumption of money obtained or borrowed for the whole of Serbia in proportion to the needs. I don't think you'll be building a university in Vrnjačka Banja and a tertiary clinical center. The Kragujevac is following, and why should someone be grateful to you now? Why should your colleagues be grateful? You forbid them to smoke, chase and punish. Why are your colleagues especially grateful? High wages? You've chosen a circle of doctors to share with who in the fund. You've created a situation where someone can have two or three salaries. Of course, intervention cardiologists have it and do a responsible job, but they can't by regulation and agreement with the fund. They work without cardio surgeons. What's the risk, gold? What European standard gives it. Don't say that. Let it go. We don't want to talk about it. There's a cavity in your reign for eight years. You've got to understand that, and it's not eight months. It's eight years old. I don't know when you took the oath, but you're talking about 2002 like that, and you're praising Djindjic. Why did you say that? You're saying that Djindjic was good, and the minister he chose for his health was no good. Zero radiation. We don't have the ambition to bring. That zero radiation in 2002 was your shame again. It's not mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49000	Three minutes and 25 seconds of the authorized representative's time. Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49001	Ladies and gentlemen, all I said were answers to the claim – Belgrade is holding everything it can. It's a lie. I tried to tell you about what was done at the Ministry of Health for the benefit of the rest of the citizens of Kragujevac and Šumadia and counted only the facts. Much better than us here, it will be interpreted by citizens of Kragujevci and Šumadia who listen to us now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49002	It's been used 25 seconds at your disposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, National MP Donka Banovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 1 of the amendment by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who withdrew the amendment. The amendment ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE PSIHOACTIVE CONTROLD SUSTAINS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, Dušanka Plečević, Milica Vojić Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Vjerica Rade, Slađan Mijaljević, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kismarton, Milan Knezić, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mijatić, Predrag Mijatić, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošarić, Milea Pošarić, Milica Pošarić, Milatić, Milatić, Milatić, Milatić, Gojkoštinović, Gojkoljtinović, Milić, Žalić, Mir, Miražarić, Mira, Mira, Mira, Miražić, Miraoić, Mirao. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49003	One of the biggest shortcomings in Serbia is that there is no system law dealing with the prevention and abuse of psychoactive controlled substances, as well as that a large number of NGOs and private practices have created so-called. The law of the jungle that corresponds to those who use families in extreme need. When the law on psychoactive controlled substances appeared, SRS MPs felt that such a law was necessary and necessary for this country and would solve one of the very important and important problems, the problems especially of the young population. However, when we read and studied this law well, we realized that it mainly refers to conditions for the production and transport of psychoactive controlled substances. There was something unclear about it, and that's why we submitted these amendments. It was unclear for two reasons. First, what you cited in the first article is what this member refers to, transport, production, export, import, transit of psychoactive controlled substances, and at the end of the sentence you listed other issues from areas of importance for the protection of human life and health. That is what you stated in your reasoning in Article 1. However, we have looked further at the law and we have seen that this law has 117 members, that it has 15 chapters and that you have devoted two chapters to the prevention and treatment of these diseases, which is quite contradictory of this reasoning and refusal of this amendment. You, I say, have stated, among other things, that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that these laws regulate the conditions for production, transport, export, import and I will not further specify what. In the end, you also listed the transport of plants that can produce psychoactive controlled substances. You did not specify what you stated in Article 1. So, you have not listed other issues from an area of importance for life, for the protection of animals and human health. Then, further in your explanation, you state that the law only provides the legal basis for the sublaw to regulate the scope and conditions for the use of psychoactive controlled substances in health institutions and private practice for the treatment of disease addiction, as well as the methods and conditions for the application of psychoactive controlled substances, including symptomatic treatment, or therapeutic intervention procedures. Then why did you need to put in this law, see, now Chapter 7 – Human Health Protection, Article 64? So, what's very important is, are these sublegal acts or members of the law? Article 66 refers to reference health institutions, which is a very important issue to know in Belgrade who is dealing with it. In Serbia, primarily, since the largest number of these institutions is mainly in Belgrade. Then, article 65, prescribing psychoactive controlled substances. It's a clear member of the law, it's not a sublegal act. You're suggesting that article 70 regulates the reduction of the demand for psychoactive controlled substances. The article 71 lists software activities in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. In Article 73, you shall specify the Institute and the Institute of Public Health. These are all members of the law. I don't know why you're here, you could have just said-- we don't want to accept that member of the amendment for this or that reason, but what you said just doesn't stand as truth. That's what we want to tell the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, you have remained in Serbia since 2009, until this law is passed, there are many laws because this issue of psychoactive controlled substances is not a question that concerns only the health ministry. In this article of the law you can see that these psychoactive controlled substances, you're especially in the part where the commissions are concerned, that other ministries can participate and that other experts can participate. So it's a multidimensional problem that only the Ministry of Health can't solve. Under this bill of law and what you wrote in your explanation, at least this law should deal with the Ministry of Health. It does not deal with cultivation, export, transit, or importing psychoactive controlled substances. What's the problem, it's that you wanted to do something with this law, but you haven't, no matter what the law is, you haven't passed one roof law before that, the mental health law, which you've already promised for more than seven or eight years, from which one of these laws on psychoactive controlled substances, but as regards treatment and prevention, might arise. This is primary and this is also important. I can't say it doesn't matter. This needs to be regulated. Maybe this is some starting point, but you shouldn't have interfered, not to say now, grandmothers and frogs. In this law you have also placed prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, mental health institutes, public health institutes. You still have a strategy, besides the law, that deals with intoxicating drugs. You also have a 2009 action plan that deals with this. But what are the results? You all know that. Now I ask you -- do you know how many drug addicts there are in Belgrade? You say you won some prize, I don't know what action – mine don't know how. However, regardless of all these results, at least as far as some general populations are concerned, they are very unsatisfactory. I won't say bad, but they're unsatisfactory compared to how much you say you work. I would also like to say that what is very important is to define these reference health institutions that should be dealt with, surely in some subsequent law. However, since the problem is multidisciplinary, it cannot be certain that only these reference health institutions deal with this problem of psychoactive controlled substances. This must be done by other health institutions, psychiatric institutions, who have touch points with this problem. I believe that we have proposed this amendment precisely because the law would be more specific, because on the one hand you have a law of prevention, and on the other hand, you deny that you wanted to suggest it. We believe this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49004	The time used by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is six minutes and 25 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49005	Article 3 explains the meaning of the terms used in the proposal for this law. This article does not explain the meaning of the word "precursor" mentioned in this law. My amendment to Article 3(1) after point 13 adds point 14 which reads as follows: "the precursor is a substance used for the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychoactive substances, other than drugs and other preparations containing substances that are such compounds that cannot be easily, easily, economically and in a cost-effective way, processed and used. "This is the definition of the previous law that was passed in 2005. It's obvious that "precursor" is any substance, natural or artificial, that can be used to produce drugs. You use the word "precursor" as a synonym in the word "psychoactive controlled substance". For example, in Article 26 paragraph 1 of point 2), in which you say, among other things, that a production permit, i.e. a psychoactive controlled substance, is issued to a legal person who is not given a judicial verdict for a commercial offence for the work in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, i.e. "precursor". So that's where the word was used as a synonym of a psychoactive controlled substance. Again, in the part where you talk about the reasons for the adoption of this law, you say – four large illegal laboratories were discovered in RS with the production of synthetic drugs in 2007 and 2008. During this time, equipment for illegal drug production and a large amount of psychoactive controlled substances and "precursors" were seized. So this is where the word "precursor" has some other meaning. Since the word "precursor" is less public known than any other word you have explained in this article, for example, the words "exports and imports" that are known to everyone and I don't believe there's anyone here who doesn't know what "exports and imports" means, but you didn't explain this word that appears in the law. That is why I have submitted this amendment in order to avoid any misunderstanding about the meaning of the word "precursor", so an amendment has been proposed to improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49006	The time used by the parliamentary group is 15 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49007	Article 4 speaks of a commission for psychoactive controlled substances, whose formation is foreseen by this draft law, and that is where the proposer cited who is all involved in the composition or representatives of which the ministries will join the composition of this commission. We have proposed, this amendment, that a deputy civil protection officer, who is in charge of protecting the rights of the child, be involved in the commission's work. In an explanation of why it was rejected, the promoter says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the commission will be made by representatives of those ministries, as state authorities, who, in their jurisdiction, have the arrangement, or monitoring, or supervision in areas related to prevention, rehabilitation, a reduction of availability, social inclusion and other areas directly related to psycho-controlled substances. In addition, members of the commission will be experts in certain areas, etc. I will read from the Law on the Protector of Citizens several things, that the Law on the Protector of Citizens establishes the Protector of Citizens as an independent state body that protects citizens' rights. He takes care of the protection and promotion of human and minority freedoms and rights. In this institution, there is a deputy who deals exclusively with the protection of the rights of the child. I'm not going to mention now the results of different surveys that show that psychoactive substances, or drugs, are controlled and uncontrolled, unfortunately, and since they are present in schools, you even have a certain percentage of students, or children in primary schools, who talk about getting in touch with psychoactive substances, and about high schools that I don't even talk about. So it's one of the basic rights of children, and by definition the UN child is from zero to 18 years old, so the basic human right of every child is to live and grow in society, above all, where they won't have access to psychoactive substances. So it is natural that in this committee, which will decide many things, where, among other things, prevention and prevention measures, etc., it is perfectly natural and normal for the Commission to be a representative of the Protectors of the Citizens, who is in charge of protecting the rights of the child. I really don't understand why you rejected this amendment, with your argument being very unsettling and inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49008	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49009	This is also an amendment that we think the promoter was wrong when he didn't accept it. In this regard, Article 4, as the colleague said, speaks of the Commission for Psychoactive Controlled Substances, which is appointed by the Government to coordinate expert positions in the field of psychoactive controlled substances and to give an expert opinion, as well as the strategy for the fight against drugs in the Republic of Serbia, for the period 2009 to 2013. Otherwise, the commission is scheduled to be represented by ministry representatives, meaning ten ministries, as prominent experts in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. We have suggested a new position that there are three experts at most. The government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment, explaining that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that only three prominent experts in the field of psychoactive controlled substances would reduce the possibility of quality commission operations, i.e. taking expert positions in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, as well as giving expert opinions in the cases prescribed by this law. This is doubtful that you know who will be members of this committee, and some of these members would not meet some more precise criteria. What does a prominent expert mean? In your way, I don't know what the definition is. It's a term and for everyone it's a relevant thing. For someone, an expert can be an expert, and for another person, he doesn't have to. That's why we don't think it's logical to refuse this amendment because since 2002 you've had more, I can't say hundreds of experts in the various Commissions of the Ministry of Health, such as the Expert Group or the National Commission for the Prevention of the Abuse of Psycho-controlled Substances, and then the National Expert Group for the Development and Protection of Youth Health, within which there is an expert sub-group to protect young people's health against addiction and HIV diseases. We believe that at this time of the economic crisis, especially in this year 2011, when the crisis is not calming down, the resources that citizens are dissipating should be used rationally and we believe that this number is entirely adequate for giving an expert opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49010	One minute of the mandated representatives of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49011	Article 6 refers to the ban on the giving and disposal of psychoactive controlled substances. We have submitted an amendment to paragraph 1, which is amended and reads: "It is forbidden to give and take psychoactive controlled substances, except for the purpose of prescribed treatment, in accordance with this law and regulations adopted to enforce this law." We believe that this way is regulated not only by giving but also by taking psychoactive substances. You can give someone psychoactive substances in different ways and through different means. So you can volunteer, voluntarily, under pressure, and I think taking it here is just as important, and perhaps more important than giving it to someone a psychoactive controlled substance. Those who are addicted to psychoactive controlled substances will take them even if someone doesn't give them. This way I think you're creating a conspiracy theory situation. It says – food, drink or any other way is prohibited to give psychoactive controlled substances, except for the purpose of prescribed treatment in accordance with this law and regulations adopted for the implementation of this law. It's logical that it's forbidden to give psychoactive controlled substances, and in my opinion, this argument that taking psychoactive substances is not meant to be a form of banning by this law, even by criminal law, I don't think it's logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49012	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49013	Paragraph 1 of Article 12 states: "Psychoactive controlled substances listed in List 2 and List 4 of the List are used for scientific research purposes, and only exclusively for therapeutic purposes, in accordance with this law and regulations adopted for the implementation of this law". The amendment requires a change of this attitude, so it should read: "Psychoactive controlled substances listed in List 2 and List 4 of Lists are used for scientific research purposes and for therapeutic purposes if there are medical indications that are in accordance with the law". The government has not accepted this amendment. The reason for the non-acceptance is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that are contrary to the 1961 UN Single Convention on Intoxicating Drugs, as well as to conventions on psychotropic substances from 1971. In the list of two, as well as in the list of four substances used only for scientific research purposes, and especially for the approval of the appropriate state, can also be used for therapeutic purposes, for example only Britain has so far authorised the use of heroin as a cure in the final stage of malignancies. Also, the list of four contains ecstasy and its derivatives, which are still not used anywhere in therapy. This amendment explains what you have stated in your reasons for not accepting the amendments, because the amendment solution is clearer and more precise, because the medical indications of the rope are defined by strictly prescribed certain protocols in which psychoactive controlled substances can be included, but they don't have to. That's why we've submitted this amendment and we're really sorry that you didn't accept it, because it's better and more accurate as a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49014	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49015	The third point of view of this Article 14 is that if a new psychoactive substance appears, then the authorised laboratory is obliged to notify the Ministry of Health within 15 days of the date of identification of the new psychoactive substance. We have provided for our amendment to shorten that deadline and we have written in the amendment that this competent laboratory is required to do so immediately and no later than five days. So we wanted to sort of improve this law. It's very interesting what we got in response to the government. I've been reading it carefully and believe me, for all this time, during the debate, I haven't been able to understand what the government has said to me. So, the amendment of the People's MPs Donka Banovic, Milice Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic reads: Article 14 paragraph 3 – they change in words within 15 days – immediately and no later than five days. Reason - the amendment is not accepted for reasons of misunderstanding of amendments to Article 14(3) submitted by these MPs. Is this normal enough to understand? What did you say to me? Why didn't you accept my amendment? You didn't accept it because that amendment was submitted by the same MPs or how do we understand that? I can only understand one way, that you didn't read this at all, and that you responded in such a order as to whom it occurred. As you read, so are your laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49016	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14, a group of 22 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 14th amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49017	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, Member of the 14th Authorised Laboratory, what the SNS position was when it submitted this amendment, is the fact that we in Article 4 mention the Commission for the Control of Psychoactive Substances and that this commission is quite professionally appointed and that there are professionals, that there are people who deal with social policy, education, health, youth, sport, culture, one body that is designed to have serious professional competences and who should give a professional opinion, to coordinate professional views. There is no reason that, when it comes to the conditions for carrying out the activity of this authorized laboratory that should identify new psychoactive substances, the commission does not give its opinion. What may have interfered with the government, the ministry, what the SNS amendment says is that, on a proposal from the commission, the minister gives permission to perform his duties. As far as we're concerned, instead of the proposal, it could have stood, the Committee could have reacted and given the Commission greater authority, because the Commission itself, treated with only one member, has a lot of general authority, and it is interesting that in two positions of that member you have regulated financing of that commission, the possibility of funding the Commission from the budget, so you should take a little more account of what jobs the Commission is doing, and one of the jobs that can certainly be carried out are these jobs relating to the authorised laboratory. We could also resent it as a parliamentary group, a permit for an authorized laboratory issued by the minister, not by the ministry, because if you are calling for indeterminateness, the fact is that the minister is not an authority of the state administration, but that it is a ministry and that in that sense you could also react and correct the State Administration Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49018	National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49019	I signed up to continue that amendment, you didn't see it, but anyway, I'm wasting the same time. The fact that the Commission is not aware of how many people, no mandate, no how organized, no who brings a working act, and that's what we're going to meet with this chamber law, and soon we're going to fix this law, because there's nothing going to be solved there. She has been formed, we don't even know how many people there will be, and local self-government is mentioned. Probably the state administration and local self-government, not even the exact name of the ministry, or what local self-government – mayor? This will also be seen in the subsequent distribution of this law when local bodies are formed, that a new administration will be created. Why am I going back to my colleague's amendment? Because it simply says that the government also educates a commission that gives expert opinions and makes expert opinions, and whoever wrote the answers here should really read what it says, because this is a mess. The Commission does not have the authority to respond to what you will not accept, to make proposals for space, equipment, where laboratories or any other producer or distributor. Who said anything about a manufacturer and a distributor? It's in the songwriter's head to get someone something, get a commission, distribute. What is the logic of this addictive sentence in the last sentence? I don't know what we're reading at all, and then what are we reading and waiting for the government's explanation? Now I'm going to go to this amendment that came to me in the nature of things to do for my colleague, the Principal, the unwanted fact, the term that we've struck two or three times. We wanted to put it instead of poisoning. The poisoning simply comes in Colloquial, more related to judicial medicine, and yet here mentions psychotropic substances that enter the drug composition, is mentioned clinical trial, and there is surgery with the term – unwanted facts and poisoning is a set of unwanted effects. It may be an academic debate, that poisoning is easier or harder, but unwanted facts are precisely divided, serious unwanted facts and life-threatening. We know exactly the division in that classification, because this law also concerns the Agency for Medicinal Products, as well as drug research, and that's where we wanted to replace the term, but the minister doesn't allow a replacement term, as if it would be something terrible, if instead of saying poisoning puts unwanted facts, it's used and if it's not intended as a cure, for treatment as part of symptomatic treatment, it's going to bring out some unwanted fact. So, I don't understand what it would be to poison, and extra on the lab proposal, where are the labs that are really dealing with poisoning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49020	50 seconds of the authorized representative's time has been used. The amendment with the correction was filed by the People's MP, Milet Poscuric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49021	The process of taking biological material. It's going to the Minister's burden again. We all know, of course, that the minister doesn't write. That's what departments do. That's so clear. But those services have to ask someone. They're administrators, doctors who aren't in practice. Simply, the minister has already given an assessment of both the parliamentary profession and the political profession and the relation of the basic profession. We've already had that elaborate tonight, too. But it's an academic discussion. This is really concrete. If the reference laboratory doesn't say - I need skin to detect the poison, I need seed fluid, I need conjunctival, I need sweat, blood, tears, spit, then it can't be written by someone in the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49022	National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49023	In the very proposal of this Article 18, which speaks of the authorisation to carry out the work of the authorised laboratory, Article 2 states that the minister is issuing the authorisation to carry out the work of the authorised laboratory and Article 3 says that the minister may, in the process of issuing the authorisation under Article 2 of this Article, request the opinion of this commission to be formed when this bill is adopted. We suggest that these two positions be united and that the minister always takes into account the opinion of the commission. So, not to be an exception but to the minister, taking into account the Commission's opinion, by granting a permit to carry out the work of the authorised laboratory. It explains that sometimes there's a need, sometimes there isn't. I doubt these permits are issued by a large number. I guess it's a very small number when it comes to these actions. As soon as the promoter predicted that and how the situation could arise to ask for the opinion of this committee, then we felt that this should be combined and that this would simply be the way – that the minister would issue a permit but when he received the opinion and expert opinion of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49024	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49025	counterpart Donka Banovic has already explained why it is necessary to add the words "having regard to the Commission's opinion". To me, it was the most controversial thing – the minister may request the opinion of the commission in the process of issuing the permits under Article 2. I thought it was better to erase those words, because it just can, but it doesn't have to or shouldn't. Then the question arises – why is the commission even formed. So, the minister -- the majority, the only one, in principle, the man of the man band, since 20 June 2002, is the man who, on his shoulders, can, from the non-intentional spending of EU donations, which was indicated by the Society of Private Dentologists in April 2005, through the protection of colleagues in the "tetabulun" affair, a fake tetanus serum that was used although not registered on the list of medicines. In November 2005 it was. In July 2007, he had severe pressure to resign, following the death of a three-year-old girl after a trivial operation at a private clinic. In February 2008, he had major problems following the adoption of codes of business and professional conduct, as well as working discipline, which warns doctors not to talk about what is happening in their institutions – something like Sharia law. In October 2008, he was in conflict with Belgrade's health secretary, Prof. Dragan Jovanovic, after demanding the removal of five directors of health institutions due to malfeasance. A new flu appears in Serbia in May 2009. After a discussion of a few months, a tender was launched in November, with the right to import three million doses of vaccine – it received "Yugochemy". Due to a major fire at KBC "Dragisa Misovic" in Belgrade on October 24th. (President: National MPs, please, with full understanding of the biography and work results of the minister, at another point of the agenda. Now about the amendments. ) The idea was that a simple man would no longer have to suffer so much alone that he had various consequences, I suggested this amendment that in such an important area, as the law on psychoactive controlled substances, the minister has the opportunity to share a little responsibility and not to keep everything at the minister's level can, but he won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49026	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is from the apostle of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49027	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering at seven o'clock, uninterrupted, at this session. I don't know if it's business. It probably is. But what our psychophysical abilities are, that's the question. Given that we got this right in front of the sitting, where we have to discuss a law that's large, I'd like to stick to the subject, as always directed by our host. You see, Article 8 says – the minister issues a solution to the laboratory's work permit. The next sentence says -- the minister may request the opinion of the commission in the process of issuing a 2nd permit. In one of the discussions, the minister himself said that he was not all-powerful, that he had his own knowledge, but he was not capable of everything. This is a highly specialized area, where you absolutely need expertise. Then we said it had to be imperative. He has to. It really doesn't make sense for you to answer like this. You are instructing us to read the explanation for what you have given others, and in this explanation you say – when there is a need, ask the opinion of the Commission for Psychoactive Substances, or that if such a need does not exist, the professional services of the Ministry can independently prepare a solution on the issue of authorisation to carry out the exercise of powers. What did you say? Are you aware you haven't said anything? We point to you that since it's professional matter, you have to ask the expert commission's opinion whenever you give permission to those who want to examine such substances. It's not a general thing. The minister may be of the profession, but he doesn't have to. All we're asking is that you're always imperially saying that you have to. What a stupid answer you've given. You said the other way around, which has nothing to do with the brain and what we told you -- that even the commission can bring it up on its own sometime. You're giving her a great honor. There, that needs to be fixed. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49028	A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49029	In the light of the previous amendment, I explained why it is important for the minister to allow at least a little in such an important area as the area of psychoactive controlled substances to share responsibility with the reference entity what a committee for psychoactive controlled substances is. Besides, if the minister can do anything by himself, then what's the reason that a commission on psychoactive controlled substances is being educated in the first place? To hire someone or to have another reason? I really want to believe that the minister was quite serious when he said that the proposed solutions are in line with the strategy for fighting drugs that Serbia has brought for the period 2009 to 2013, and that psychoactive substances include drugs. One of the basic objectives of law-making is to establish a balance between adequate control and control of the abuse of psychoactive controlled substances, in order to ensure the availability of that substance in medical, veterinary and scientific research purposes. So, Article 4 predicts that the government educates the Commission on psychoactive controlled substances made up of representatives of health, education, internal affairs, work and social policy, defence, youth, sport and culture, justice, agriculture and veterinary, local self-government, as well as prominent experts in the field of psycho-controlled substances. The aim of the establishment of this commission is, as is written, the harmonisation of expert positions in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, as well as the provision of expert opinions in accordance with this law. I believe that, as the first item of this strategy, it is written that because of the continuity with the former, current and future governments of this strategy for the fight against drugs, for the period 2009 to 2013, the point will be that the health minister will be, who else, to Dr Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49030	The 21st Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49031	Article 21 refers to the responsible person in the authorised, or reference laboratory. We have submitted an amendment to add a new position to Article 21 after Article 3 – the responsible person and the deputy responsible person must be an expert in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. The existing position 4 becomes heading 5. What is extremely illogical is the explanation you gave for refusing this amendment. In Article 21, you say - this amendment is rejected for the reason that Article 14 paragraph 4 of the Law has been given the power of the Minister to prescribe conditions in terms of a viewcadre, i.e. the conditions which must be met by all staff in an authorised laboratory. What are we talking about, then, about the expertise of those who work and who deal with this important matter? It is completely contradictory of your opinion with the previous member, with the reference laboratory, where you say in point 2 that the minister may, in the process of issuing a solution to the reference laboratory, request the opinion of the commission. In Article 21, the responsible person, who really needs to be the most responsible person who has full knowledge in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, must be a citizen, which means, the Republic of Serbia, must not be against him to conduct a criminal act of psychoactive controlled substances, and his expertise in any sentence cannot be mentioned in a single word. Also, this Article 21 is contrary to and contradictory to Article 31, which refers to the responsible person for the production, i.e. the traffic of a psychoactive controlled substance. In that article, you state that the responsible person and his deputy must have the expertise and acquired the necessary knowledge from the field of psychoactive controlled substances. This is perfectly logical and fine, but it doesn't make sense that in Article 21 you don't specify that person has to have professional equipment. You can't bring that to some sublegal act. Then it is completely, too, illogical to pass a member of the 91st law, which says - issuing a certificate of acquired knowledge in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. So, you mean that the persons, and it's decadently said who are to be issued these certificates, says the ministry is issuing a certificate of acquired calls from the area of controlled psychoactive substances to the responsible person and the deputy responsible person. We believe that this explanation, or your reason for not accepting the amendment, is completely illogical, completely out of the context of expertise. We believe that this amendment should be accepted, that you should reconsider it and that it is entirely appropriate for this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49032	A minute and 40 seconds of time of authorised representatives have been used and the full time of authorised representatives has been used, and the parliamentary group has another 10 minutes and 30 seconds. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49033	Article 23 discusses who can apply for a permit to produce psychoactive substances to the ministry. There are three points here, two of which are undeniable, that it can do or do a legal person, who has also been granted a licence for the production of drugs, or a manufacturer of active substances that is listed in the register of manufacturers of active substances, and another point that it can be a legal person who produces chemicals and which is listed in the chemical register, also according to the law that regulates those areas. The third point is disputed, and we suggest erasing it, where you say a permit can be requested by other legal persons in accordance with the law. Reading these first two points, it seemed to us that you basically covered all legal entities that could require such permission. But what concerns is your argument, where you say you don't accept this amendment and that you think that other legal entities can ask for a production permit. Then you explain it so that the request can be filed by those who, now you're stating examples, are dealing with the production of childbearing supplements, and those who are involved in the production of veterinary medicines, but this again falls under the Law of Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. What concerns me as a citizen is that we produce and sell childlike supplements that contain psychoactive controlled substances. That's what's worrying. I'm no expert in this area, but this knowledge is very worrying. Is it sold in pharmacies, that kind of stuff? Are these healthy food stores where there are various ingredients? Are these weight loss medications, etc., and in this law, you think it's okay and you don't want to put an end to it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49034	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Reverend Mrs. Comic, do you know that anthological film "The Horses Kill, don't you? While I was in the British Parliament there, they told us, about, one term - party whips. I'm counting on your width, you know, you're changing with Mr. Chairman, and we've really been here, seven hours already, so we've been looking at Mr. Markovic's first face with concern, and now we're looking at Mr. Health Minister, so our forces aren't exactly as you judge them. What asked me to say? I'm looking at my colleagues from the position, and they're getting very high and narrow. So consider that for this long... (President: National MP, or to bring in all the things that you put in touch with the amendment where the number "90" is replaced by the number "60", or... ) Of course not, so, Mrs. Comic, I just appreciate you looking for focus. Here, now I'm focusing on the amendment itself. It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's a... You'll understand it the right way, you're a broad person, not the term I used. (President: People's Parliament, I greatly appreciate the creative speech, but I would really beg that you don't outsmart me anymore. ) Here, simple and short, 90 days here are required to get a license to traffic psychoactive substances, and we suggested 60. Look, now it's said here without a reason, that someone is serious, so to tell us -- this process takes so much time, that process takes so much time, so it can't, but the papers when you give, then this takes you 90 days. What are they gonna do for 90 days? You know it's a big problem in this country that these permits aren't issued on time and on time, and then many foreigners can't come here to work for us. Why do I say we have to plead? This law has been passed by an emergency procedure. If you're looking at an explanation of the four acts called for urgency, they're standing in the back. They're all five years old. So when you want to be up-to-date and haste, give a little urgency when it comes to being up-to-date to people who have a profession that depends on life's existence. That's all we wanted, and we got the wrong answer. That should also make you creatively contribute to helping us look together under such difficult conditions at all possible depths of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49036	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. This amendment was adopted by both the Government and the Health and Family Committee. It is under investigation for lack of a statement by the Legislative Committee, and will be declared by the Parliament in the voting day. Anybody want a word? The amendment is under review. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted to the 35th Amendment by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49037	In Article 35, the taxation shall include legal and natural persons who may possess psychoactive controlled substances without a production permit, i.e. the traffic of psychoactive controlled substances listed in lists 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7. For the sake of the public, psychoactive controlled substances on the list are classified in the list from 1 to 7 in accordance with the approved UN conventions. Thus, the list 1 covers intoxicating drugs used for therapeutic, scientific research purposes, the list 3 covers preparations containing intoxicating drugs, and is used for therapeutic purposes and the list 5 covers psychotropic substances used for limited therapeutic and scientific purposes. In Article 35, points are precisely defined which natural and legal persons may possess psychoactive controlled substances, without production and transport permits. The aim of my amendment was to contribute to the accuracy and avoidance of possible abuses by eradicating item 6, which gives this possibility to the state authorities to carry out activities from their jurisdiction. The government's reasons for not accepting this amendment did not disprove me at all, because it is said that this attitude and point 6 leave the possibility that other state bodies, for example, For the purposes of the military and the police, they may possess psychoactive controlled substances, without production permits, or traffic. What does the police and the military really want with a psychoactive controlled substance? As a motivational factor for breaking up demonstrations and protesters, which will certainly be, given the work of this so-called just government or experimenting on detainees. As the minister of the military followed by the Serbian army, I would not be surprised that pharmacological support will be most needed for those who die of fear when Sutanovac sends them on peacekeeping missions among the human-eating tribes. This argument of the government just confirms my suspicions that someone for political reasons is sabotaging an extremely correct bill that actually made a team of experts. Serbian citizens have long become not only observers but also subjects in an in vivo experiment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49038	The word is from Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49039	This is really causing a big misunderstanding. What's a psychoactive substance for military and police purposes? It's something that causes suspicion. Only if you didn't think about those medical facilities that are within the military and police force, so that they have in their lager, such as VMA or some garrison infirmary or military hospital or the Ministry of Health Protection of MuP workers in Durmitorska. You should've written that right away, which are institutions, not government bodies like this. Why wouldn't it be BIA? Why wouldn't she be VBA? Why wouldn't the whole government, within the government, say, the Ministry of Sports? The law must be precise. The explanation of the amendment must be precise. This is how when you write - the military and the police, it causes serious doubt. How to explain this when you write – e.g. The army and the police? Is there any real reason for a man to wonder what the military and the police are going to do with a psychoactive substance? What are they gonna do with these substances? Are they going to bring someone in and give him that substance to extort a confession? What's he gonna do, say the army, within the army of the VOA, catch some spy, so he can't get some data, get his substance and that's it? You see how one law, which is fundamentally necessary, is dissuaded by such pointless answers and reasons for individual amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49040	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49041	It's a clinical study of a drug containing a psychotropic substance. In the first position, it gives recognition to the Agency for Medicinal Products, the procedure that it does, but at the same time it is said – it is necessary for the applicant to request, as well as for the clinical trial of medicines, otherwise under basic roof law, to report to the ministry this time and issue a licence for the use of the medicine. When the story developed, the amendment wanted us to have little to do, that the ministry, which is a little harder, is again the minister, the professional services, whom they are going to ask – who owns the lists of medicines and registers, but again the commission that issues them, the famous member of the 4th Unsaid. Now let the nice minister pass it on to the commission, see if there is a cure, whether it is on the market, whether it is imported, what it knows about it, whether it has any prior information and that all these mutual communications of the minister, the commission and the minister with the applicant require a time weapon, and there was nothing more, no harm, no missing procedure, but the law deals with deadlines. These are some of the minimals. After the moment the minister issues that solution, the matter moves routinely, as is done at the agency. Nothing changes here. It doesn't affect the procedure, so the explanation we got isn't too much of a drink. No one goes to that procedure to disturb her, because that procedure is known. The procedure was done, so it was changed, perfected, and it's quite good, as well as when the law was passed, we didn't have any major objections about the procedure being conducted. That's why we wanted to amend those relations, not disenfranchise the minister, to finally forward the request. Someone's gonna answer him. Otherwise, if we hadn't written it like that, it probably would have been real. How will the minister know? Let's name some medicine. It's not always methadone, and he knows what it is. Who knows what can be a medicine that contains a combination of medicines? What would that man do now, give the list of registers, give his secretary an answer, someone to help him. Okay, maybe I'm ideally looking at the work of the ministry and state authorities. I didn't exactly do it, that kind of rank, but I did the same thing. I think this was one logical order of things. It would be an internal act that would oblige both the other and the third participants to quickly come to a solution. It's an amendment, as I understand it, Professor Knezevic, that's what he was referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49042	25 seconds of the parliamentary group's time was used and the total time of the authorised representative was used. Minister Tomica Milosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49043	In short, one procedure regulated by one law cannot be regulated by another law. The drug trial procedure has been regulated by the Drug and Medical Devices Act and therefore cannot be changed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49044	A 15-second mandated representative has been used. People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49045	Then we probably don't understand each other. It doesn't matter. We're tired. It's not affecting the procedure, it's just that if you betray it, the ministry issues this famous consent to use, we don't interfere with the procedure. In our proposal, if you have read carefully, it stands in the last position following all these correspondences – time-shares and further procedures in the procedure that contains etc., it takes place in accordance with the regulation governing the field of clinical trial. We didn't touch anything, just that procedure, can I use this medicine to start these clinical trials? So I understood this first attitude, and he was a little vague to me, but I couldn't understand you differently. That's why we timed it, nothing else. The procedure doesn't change, it's just work, so what would it look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49046	45 seconds of MP time was used. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49047	Article 40 refers to the transport of a psychoactive controlled substance. This article 40 is bulky, vague and imprecise, as well as the bill. He's got ten views. As a parliamentary group, we had objections literally in every position, and we were able to submit the amendment to almost every position, however, precisely because of this ambiguity and inaccuracy, and because of such an important area as the transport of psychoactive controlled substances. We also considered this to be more in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior than the Ministry of Health, but we submitted an amendment that at least in some way this position 9, which we thought was most important in this article, that this word "without delay" should be replaced by "the longest within 24 hours". In this way, we wanted to give the binding character of this bill, however, what you have written in your explanation for the refusal of this amendment is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the said position in Article 40 gives the obligation to a legal person carrying out the transport of psychoactive controlled substances that without delay informs the Ministry and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of any activity which suggests that the trafficking of psychoactive controlled substances is suspected, as well as the quantity and type of missing psycho-controlled substances. It is not possible to accept a 24-hour period in which this obligation would end, as proposed by this amendment, due to the need for urgent action in cases of illegal behaviour. Leaving a 24-hour deadline would create a possibility of abuse. I'm asking you to define what it means and how long it takes without delay. You're a doctor, like me, and you know that when a patient escapes the hospital or comes out alone, within 24 hours you give that patient a release list. There's a deadline. We in psychiatry within 24 hours have to report escape to the Home Office. It means nothing to us without delay. There's a possibility of abuse and there's a possibility of manipulation because that's one broad term, because it's not five minutes or five hours or 50 hours. Here, you have a chance to tell me how long it's time-limited.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49048	One minute of the MP's time was used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49049	That time is exactly what it says, without delay. The legal person carrying out the transport of psychoactive controlled substances is obliged to notify the MUP without delay if there are circumstances that indicate suspicion of illicit traffic. Why without delay? Because if you put on 24 hours then you can imagine a situation in which someone will transport it for 23.5 hours, then at 24 o'clock to inform the competent ministry. In 23.5 hours, it can be transported by illegal transportation to a completely different side of the country. Just one practical reason and we don't see much sense comparing it to practice, to patients and the like. This is about the transport of psychoactive substances and possible circumstances that suggest that it is suspected that it is an illegal operation. In that case, without delay it is necessary to report it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49050	The government's 50 seconds of time has been used. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49051	I'm not happy with your answer because you haven't figured it out again. The SRS parliamentary group believes that "without delay" means nothing. This means, for example, that a person may notice that some psychoactive controlled substance has disappeared, but that for some other reason he does not report it, perhaps because of laziness, perhaps because of the surface, perhaps because of his illness, or for some other reason, or perhaps because of abuse. When you ask a person when you reported the disappearance of some psychoactive controlled substance, she will without delay, if she wants to manipulate, to abuse her actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49052	45 seconds of MP time was used. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 49. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49053	We have submitted an amendment to Article 49, which speaks of some deadlines. It is said that a legal person carrying out export or importing a psychoactive controlled substance must, within 15 days of exportation or imports, notify the Ministry of the quantity of exported or imported psychoactive controlled substance. We believe that the 15-day deadline is very long and that the ministry really needs to be informed of these types of activities earlier. A little while ago, you were talking about having a deadline in the previous article right away, from the post without delay, and here is the deadline for reporting to the ministry on such actions. Of course, it's all legal, but it's 15 days and it's too long. We suggest that that deadline be reduced to three days. I see that from other parliamentary groups you also had proposals to cut deadlines, so you could accept another solution if you think it's just a three-day deadline and it's too short. We don't think so. Therefore, within three days, the importer or exporter may inform the Ministry of these activities. Then, in your explanation, you are calling for the practice and deadline that exists, which refers to the Ministry of Health itself, which is that you are obliged as a ministry to report within 15 days an international Bureau of Narcotics Control on Imports or Exports of Psychoactive Substances. Now you are referring to this practice internationally and introducing it into internal communication. I don't think it has anything to do with each other, how much time the ministry has to report on it and some legal person who deals with this. It's really a 15-day deadline and too long a deadline. I don't understand why such a deadline has been left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49054	30 seconds of MP time was used. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49055	These two situations are completely incomparable. In the previous case, it is suspected that illegal transport is involved and there is a need for action without delay. This is about a two-week development period that makes legal application for legal action.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49056	15 seconds of government time has been used. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49057	When it comes to these kinds of substances, I think there can always be a dose of doubt that it's an illegal store. So, when it comes to these substances, there's really a lot of abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49058	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49059	Professor Knezevic wanted us to avoid some kind of galaxy of expressions with this amendment, and it seems to us like pleonasm, that this is the use where people's health care is used, and that's what opportunities these medicines are used for. Now, in point 1 of Section 3 for the treatment of disease addiction, for treatment purposes, including symptomatic treatment. He can go to the field of academic discussion, what kind of treatment is, causually, symptomaticly, subtlely, but it's not the subject of this law. We're just, I don't know, really, just from some special tenacity towards the applicants demanding, as it's read, that it be rejected. What were we looking for? To change very little with this amendment and to mention it symptomatically for the purposes of other therapeutic interventions, to change that, because it's just not logical for us to mention it with treatment, because it's treatment and treatment, to add all kinds of treatment. We'd just settle it, we didn't fundamentally change anything, but we've been rejected like this, and it's just become a pattern and I don't know the meaning of participation in this kind of debate. If we're going to open up a academic debate now, what can be in place here, what's carrying part of the sentence, what's pleonasm, I'm not ready for it right now. I thought there was more sense and tact for these nuanced remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49060	One minute and 15 seconds of Parliament time. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49061	This isn't about linguistic shades, it's about professional attitude. Symptomatic treatment is the treatment of pain in very severe diseases that are infaustic, which you cannot cure, but you can use opiates to calm the pain. This is where we listened to the profession, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49062	It was used 15 seconds of time available. On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49063	Of course, I'm going back to the part so I don't go to the replica, but of course it's clear, and it's treatment. That's exactly what I'm saying. It doesn't need to be separated specifically. This treatment of pain is treatment, only with that kind, not with some other kind of pain therapy. But this is for Congress, not for the Assembly. It doesn't matter, nothing gets lost or won't get lost if it stays that way or changes special. There's a lot more serious stuff that's gone through. What we're talking about in the amendment that I've submitted is health technologies, how we came up with this to change these procedures. In the process of introducing new health technologies, the provisions of the Health Protection Act, in the section relating to the assessment of health technologies, shall apply. I may have, but that is why it is later mentioned in a certain way and in the bill of law that is before us, in fundamental error. I don't know if that commission exists or if it works, what it does, who controls her work, etc. I know of some of the purchases they were, that they had to avoid the omens, that they had an emergency sign to avoid the commission's assessment. Did all those commissions do the job? Why the amendment was rejected, we don't know, because neither does the commission. I don't understand it from my explanation, but things are the way they are. We'll probably be changing this law soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49064	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49065	Thank you. Things are very serious. The assessment of health technologies is a large and wide area needed in all regulated health systems, including ours. It's very clear as a commitment. Of course, on this road to strengthening the assessment of health technologies, we need much more effort and quality of this work. The Commission, thank God, exists and this institution, which is set out in the law, is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49066	The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 64th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the title of article 64 reads - Human Health Protection. Of course, all of us who are involved in politics and what we are dealing with, we have in mind that we would like to get to the well-being of citizens, to lead to that prosperity. The quality of life is a measure, approximately, and without health, there is no quality of life, you will all agree. It's precisely one of the reasons why we don't want to vote for this law is that in such a modest way it focuses on the health of citizens and that it goes before the roof law, as we believe, and as it has been spoken in the Ministry of Health for years, which is called the Mental Health Act. It is not known how many drug users there are – from 40,000 to 100,000, and 5,000 are on treatment. There's about 1,400 in succesive therapy. If that's not the country's problem, and we think it is and we think it was the first thing to be done, not one technical, technological law. That's the first thing I want to say. What else I want to say right now, and of course I'm going to be a member. I always stick to matter. We put the amendment on, and we thought that in Article 7 which says – ways and conditions for the application of psychoactive controlled substances in health institutions and private practice say "minister regulation". Now, if it's any prognosis that some psychiatrist could be found at the minister's post, let's say an affair, but it doesn't work. We believe that, in order to do so, it is necessary to have the expert opinion of the Commission, experts, experts, when it comes to ways and conditions. Not to read all this stuff here, I'm just saying what's the point. What's our responsibility? Be careful what we're told. I recognize again the person who writes these leaps legally that have nothing to do with common sense. It says this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the introduction of new health technologies is under way. What kind of medical technology? In this attitude 7, we are talking about ways and conditions of applying psychoactive substances. How can you tolerate this? I now appeal to you, Madam Chairman, that we all make efforts together to really make such material mistakes, logically, not allow. I ask the Minister a question, we intervene in ways and conditions for the application of psychoactive substances. We are told – in the process of introducing new health technologies. Do we understand each other? Please, if we can get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49068	Ten seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Masic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49069	My colleague Zoran Mašić has submitted an amendment to Article 64. It's about the same subject, the subject of a psychoactive substance commission. The SNS has submitted a series of amendments, seeking to give the commission some information, to in some ways consider the rights and obligations of the commission, to know the affairs that the commission is carrying out. We regret that there was no more understanding, at least when it comes to this amendment of the SNS. In Article 14, when we intervened, we made a proposal, or our suggestion was that the minister was to give his opinion, or bring an act to the Commission's proposal. This time we intervened in this way, which we expected from the commission one opinion that would be delivered to the minister and on the basis of that opinion, we felt that the minister could make a decision on the ways and conditions for applying psychoactive substances to a health care facility. It seems to us that the commission should be involved in these affairs and there was no reason for it to be left out. Among other things, in an explanation of the rejection of this amendment, both the government and the ministry themselves say there is no interference with obtaining opinions, but it is obvious that the ministry's vanity was above this legal obligation and that this commission remains, in this way, a wizard, as it is said -- neither in heaven nor on earth. If it is necessary for the minister and the ministry, asking for something from her, if they think it would be too high or that it could harm them in some of their intentions, they will not ask her for an opinion. The Commission itself really doesn't have the right authority in this way, and we think it's one big shortage of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49070	Two minutes of MP time was used. On Article 68 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. This amendment was also adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, the Legislative is not and is subject to review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49071	This amendment concerns Article 71. Article 71 refers to software activities in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. In Article 71(2), following the word "committee", the point is replaced by a comma and words are added "which have an obligation to submit their report once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". We have submitted this amendment for one great reason why this matter and the bill on this matter are very important for both the citizens of Serbia and for us, the MPs of the SRS. I think the citizens of Serbia want one such report and that such a single report, as you say, should be read in a transparent manner in this assembly. You, as well as all amendments, have refused this, normally, by reason that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the law proposed that the members of the commission be appointed by the Government, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Government, the Commission will bring a report on its work to this body that it has appointed. I don't know what law was passed here in the Assembly without having any commission or body, and I don't remember any report being submitted to the National Assembly on the work of that commission or that body. In view of the importance of this matter, especially for human health, we felt that this commission, which, on the one hand, is one globular body for which you state in your explanation that it is not financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in Article 4 of the second point, states that additional funding is needed for the financing of this commission, I believe that this report should be here once a year at least to bear on how much has been done in a year, whether the number of drug addicts is reduced, whether there are 30,000 or 130,000 as some claim, etc. That's why I think this amendment should have been accepted, primarily because of citizens of Serbia who have a big problem. Drug abuse isn't just a health problem, it's not just a psychiatric problem, it's not just a psychological problem. This is the problem of society. This is a national problem. That's why we think that this one way that you're trying, which is not multidimensional, you're not going to solve this problem, because so far, the drug abuse has existed. The drugstore doesn't exist today, since yesterday. This problem should be solved openly, should be spoken of. In particular, media should be involved in solving this problem, in order to change people's minds, in order to change the minds of young people, in order to change the awareness of family members, so that parents quickly and in time notice whether their child is taking some psychoactive controlled substance or not. Because it's time to live fast. That's why I think this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49072	One minute and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49073	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last amendment for which I will answer. Here is the title - Institute for Public Health. It is considered that the Institute of Public Health participates in the implementation of programme activities under its law of established businesses. We proposed the amendment to add an opinion that reads: "For public health, it delivers its work reports to a once-a-year commission". On the side that in this reasoning of the law there is inaccuracies, untrueness, I will not use our harsh, folk expressions. It's said there's no budget burden. But it's clear to everyone -- if you start a new commission and you bring new people into business, it has to. That's what it says, that commission is funded from the budget. So it's a new body. It's impossible for both -- half fish, half girl. What do they say in reason? It's an amazing imagination to build things with. It is said this way - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that public health institutes report once a year on their work to the founder, i.e. the Republic. That's not a question, and we don't doubt it. It is further said – so it is not all-consistent that such a report is submitted to a commission which does not have the authority to oversee the work of the public health office. That's not what we're asking, that the commission be a police officer over the institute. What do we say? People who do the same work need to inform each other and that report to go to the commission, for information. It's not about discipline, it's about disputing or approving. Who said that? Why are you making this up? Don't do that. It's the manner in which you're unqualityly preparing legal proposals, and you're also more disastrously responding. Of course, for these reasons, we, the MPs of the SRS, will not vote for such bad legal proposals. Be aware of that. Mr. Minister, at the very end, I'd say we've agreed on some things and that's very nice and good. Even if we agree on one thing, I would be very pleased, even if I am not satisfied with the legal proposals – if you put your authority, Minister of Health, to make every effort to protect the health of Serbian citizens Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, at least half as you advocated Mr Stanisic's health, when you were traveling personally and when, thanks to you, he was also fired for home treatment. It's ethics. That's what I expect from you, and I'd appreciate it if your ministry, not the other ministries, were involved in this. Don't just tell me what we've heard -- that you respect procedures and that body called the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, for a man whose health is well-being and how threatened in The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49074	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49075	First, there is no budget burden in 2010. It's very nice and clear, it just needs to be read like that. Of course, the new body that is formed and which receives new competences and new tasks, very seriously, must be financed from the budget. It is therefore not disputed that his work must be planned in 2011 and must be financed. In response to the amendment's proposal, it is clear that it is not all-consistent that the report is submitted to the commission, because it is simply a reference norm within the Serbian legislation. You refer to institutes and seduce the founder to submit reports that can be used, among other things, in the work of committees. As far as this second remark is concerned, I must say that the Ministry of Health has done everything in his jurisdiction to worry about the health situation of all Serbian citizens in The Hague tribunal, including Mr Seselj. It is very well known to the predecessor and to the entire parliamentary group a full correspondence between the Ministry of Health and between the Council for Co-operation. It is a very respected will of a citizen to the extent that the health details will be made available to the public or not. So all communication can be made available to anyone who wants to see it, so they will see and recognize both the efforts and respect of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49076	A minute and 30 seconds of time were used at the government's disposal. The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to the 76th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49077	Here we have failedly tried to change the terms – poisoning and unwanted facts. The whole article has been changed because it's been mentioned in all attitudes, so we've replaced the term. The explanation isn't as pidgy as it used to be. Watch out how someone doesn't read what he wrote when he wrote something. I'll cut short so I don't take up on myself and other times – since both expressions don't have the same meaning. According to who? According to someone else? That means the terms aren't synonyms. That's how it's written. But I'm also saying they're not synonyms. Further explanation – this area is fully governed by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. That's why I'm bringing him back to this law. Shall we say that health care, defined by the three laws we've had tonight, all three are health concerns, what's wrong with that? The term health care is part of all laws and roof and other laws. What's wrong with that? Of course what's better in that segment is defined as a toxic unwanted fact. Do we have a problem with being beautifully defined there so we don't accept it here? Next, you didn't put what was poisoning into a rodent. Now we don't know what that poisoning means. Who's going to judge what his poisoning is? Nausea, nausea, vomiting, itching, urticaria, maybe it is diarrhoea, maybe it is, maybe it isn't, maybe it's an unwanted fact. Especially if it's a drug that contains a substance. What was the problem? You describe the unsolicited facts, you bet here. There's even some incomparable stuff going on there. That's what he says when the cause of their exposure has been established. When was the cause established? How is this drug connected? What if it's a polyphragmic? Who questioned it so quickly? It's quite an unspeakable law. You know, it's not worth trying to do anything, because something apriorius refuses to think about it a little bit more, I guess it's just plain obvious that the opposition can participate in writing and thinking, law-making. The arguments are really often unsettled as much as you now strengthen them from the minister's position and stand behind what I say and you need to stand behind this. Even though it wasn't you, your associates did. It's perfectly understandable, and I would do the same if I were you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49078	20 seconds of MP time was used. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49079	Of course, it is important to record the side effects of the drug, but also the situation of poisoning and deaths. It is not disputed that a health care facility has an obligation to record both. Except that the undesirable effects are recorded in accordance with the drug law, clearly defined, and these other difficult cases are recorded according to this regulation and there is nothing disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49080	The word has an MP named Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49081	Just define the term - poisoning, that they know what these people will report, because everyone will understand as an unwanted effect. He took the medicine and he was sick, vomiting, unwanted effect. That's what the law says. Now, here's to you, poisoning isn't mentioned as such, so bring it into the globular of terms, so that those of you who are going to carry out what they're going to describe from poisoning, the death case is difficult, it's sowing, we know what it is, it's sowing, but let's see this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49082	The word has Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49083	The medical profession is wide, serious and it has special orientations, those orientations that deal with these are called pharmacology and psychiatry. I'd trust experts who'd advise just like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49084	The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49085	The objective of this amendment is to improve the text of the law. The law should be clear, precise and unequivocal and therefore, in law at all, there should be no specifics such as – can, should, are due, etc. These are all indefinite terms that can be interpreted and misused differently. The amendment requires that, in the position of Article 1 of the 84th, the word "obligation" should be replaced by the word "obligation", so that, with an amendment, that that attitude should read – the legal person to whom the production permit has been granted, i.e. the transport of psychoactive controlled substances, i.e. the health institution and the private practice applying psychoactive controlled substances, under the conditions prescribed by this law, are obliged, at least at the end of each year, and, if necessary, at the request of the ministry, to write psychoactive controlled substances, by measuring, counting psycho-controlled substances, and then comparing the established balance with the current year. Given the specificity and significance of the consequences that can arise in the abuse of a psychoactive controlled substance treated by this law, this amendment is clearer and more precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49086	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 95th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49087	This 95th article speaks of confidentiality of information, so it's enough to keep only the first position that speaks of official secrecy. You've expanded that member from another three points and simply raises the question of whether there's a regulation with us that regulates the official secret. As far as I know, there is, and that's the law of official secrecy. Have you read it and brought it into line with our law, I don't believe it, because if you had read it, you would have seen that our Law of Official Secret much better regulate this area, meaning what it is and how it is kept official secret, than it regulates your reasoning where you say the law is fully in line with that of the Paris Convention on Intellectual Property Protection, with Article 39. Agreements on trade aspects of intellectual property rights which form an integral part of the WHO. I simply cannot accept that production, traffic, distribution of psychoactive substances is an intellectual property. That's a little steamy ears. You are harmonising these regulations with the EU and the question is when we will enter, whether we will enter and whether it will exist, and we have tried to bring this law to a reasonable extent, not to confuse. You know exactly what the official secret is, who's bound to respect that secret. There are sanctions provided for disrespecting official secrecy, and that's quite enough, not for you to expand with certain points that don't have much to do with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49088	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49089	Article 95(1) states: The employees of the ministries responsible for psychoactive controlled substances, as well as the members of the commission, are required to keep all the information contained in the documentation submitted under the request and to be submitted in accordance with this law as an official secret. The objective of my amendment was to correct the proposed member by deleting points 1), 2) and (3). This guy's information is confidential and it's clear that the ministry's employees and authorities have an obligation to keep official secrets. Any relativisation of this obligation shall not contribute to the preservation of the confidentiality of information, provided that it is said in paragraph 2 that, in order to combat unfair competition under Article 1(1) of this Article, it shall not disclose the information contained in the documentation submitted to the Ministry, except with the consent of the applicant, or other than information available to the professional and general public for the purpose of providing information on the psycho-controlled substance. As for the government's reasons for not accepting my amendment, it has been said that Article 95, which Milan Dimitrijevic spoke of, is fully in line with Article 10. The Paris Convention on the Protection of Intellectual Property, which is an integral part of the WHO rule. I don't think erasing points 1), 2) and (3) would compromise compliance, but would only speed it up. It's not enough just to copy, because sometimes you still need to write something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49090	On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49091	This amendment proposes erasing Article 5, Article 96. Otherwise, the member refers to surveillance in the field of psychoactive controlled substances. I will read the opinion of the 5th member – the inspector performs surveillance tasks in the prescribed official suit whose appearance is prescribed by the minister. This newspaper that the inspector is inspecting in the prescribed official suit is met except in this bill and in the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which is the supervision of the work of health institutions and private practices. I assume this job will be done by the same inspector after you provided for a pharmaceutical inspector in the Health Protection Act. I don't think it's necessary for the minister to give the inspector a prescribed official suit when carrying out inspectional supervision of the work of legal persons, who have a license to manufacture and transport in the field of psychoactive controlled substances, because the official suit is normally a uniform, and I don't mean working uniform. So that the official suits have, or uniforms of military, civil, municipal and financial police, and that we will also have health police with this shift. What kind of official suit in which the inspector will examine objects, equipment, take samples of psychoactive controlled substances for physical and chemical analysis and perform other inspection tasks. This is not in this law, and it is therefore proposed to delete this Article 96 position.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49092	Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49093	Thank you. In two words. This is adapting to how the appearance and official suit of other inspections are regulated. So it's a technical matter, and it's not a fundamental thing. Adapting to what already exists in other inspections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49094	Twenty seconds. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49095	This Article 108 refers to a commercial offence and says – a fine of millions to three million dinars will be punishable for a commercial offence by a legal person if it carries out the production, that is, of psychoactive controlled substances contrary to this law. Normally, we have proposed much greater fines, although we believe this is not an economic crime but a criminal offence and you have explained the refusal of amendments by cutting into the Law on Economic Crimes, which is prescribed the greatest impediment to the economic crime of up to three million dinars. Now it is not clear to me whether in a conflict with what the media reported that four large illegal laboratories for the production of synthetic drugs were discovered in the Republic of Serbia during 2007 and 2008 and that equipment for illegal drug production and a large amount of psychoactive controlled substances were seized. How many media reports these people have been deprived of their freedoms and I don't know how the process goes on. I think it's safe that this Law of Business Crimes was brought in at a time when three million dinars must have been a low price. However, this crime should be subject to the Criminal Code. I think that at the end of today's discussion, which was quite constructive, regardless of what the minister thinks we are occasionally and destructive, and that we have such destructive proposals, I would like to ask some questions, since the minister is here and the opportunity is once again to ask the minister some questions that we have asked in the assembly speaker during these days, especially Dr Paja Mamočov and MP Boris Aleksic. In the end, I do not understand the answer you gave Dr. Paji Momchilov, when and where you, as the Ministry of Health, took measures to protect Mr. Vojislav Seselj's health. Are we particularly interested in whether there is any written document on this? We would like to inform ourselves of this, not to repeat the same questions here and not to be boring to the people. That's why I'm taking the opportunity to now answer if there's such a document? Can you tell when such a document is published and where it is published and whether we can get written notice from you who are being measured and in what direction they are taking to protect Dr Vojislav Seselj's health. That's one question. Another question I'd like to round up, and I've asked that question, and I'd like you as a doctor and as a citizen of this state of Serbia, as someone who works with this group of people and their families, to answer that question that I asked about an hour ago. You as a minister certainly should have and have that information, how many really addicts there are in Serbia. That number from 30,000 to 130,000 is very alarming for families that let children move freely and that their children don't see all day long. On the other hand, I'd like to get that answer and know if this increase in addicts is still a trend, in some ways trying to regulate it. We as an SRS parliamentary group, although we feel that such a law is necessary and that such a law, in which we have submitted a large number of amendments, should, in some way, be resolved by some way, so since you are not, we will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49096	Three minutes used by the MPs' group. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49097	The economic offense is one thing and it is regulated by regulations that define the amount of a commercial offence and cannot increase that sentence. The crime is quite different and it's defined by the Criminal Code. That's why these two things can't interfere with the provisions of the law. There is no, I'm sure, no single parliamentary group in this House who does not think the same way about drug abuse, abuse of psychoactive substances and that as a serious major social problem. It would be inconclusive if I were to answer a few words about some numbers now. You can get a full-scale report on what happens about data, there's a 2006 survey on Serbia's health, there's a follow-up study among young people according to the ESPAD methodology, and that's one association that deals with it. We are seriously co-operating with the EU drug control Centro. This is a large and extensive job that began from the corner of the Ministry of Health by passing the Opiate Precursors Act, which is important, because it is a list of those substances from which you can get drunk. This law should be considered as a continuation of that procedure. As for the answer to your question about what documents, what procedures, I'll take this as a question you expect to get a written answer. Therefore, you will receive a full report taxing with the health ministry's moves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49098	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49099	I can tell exactly what business crimes are and what they're guilty of. That's completely clear to me. So I didn't have any dilemmas. We considered this a criminal offence to be a criminal offence, not a commercial offense. On the other hand, I think we'll hopefully be satisfied with the answer we're getting, but I'd like to ask you to keep that answer in some decent time and maybe that'll be there in a week. The Health and Family Committee has tried three times as a part of the agenda -- a review of Mr Vojislav Seselj's health status in The Hague tribunal. No majority in the position voted this item on the agenda. Well, it might be good for you to present a report on the Health and Family Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49100	Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49101	This article 108 is the first in a series of criminal provisions that you provide for by this bill and regulate here economic offences. You have very comprehensively cited what these are all crimes that may be the subject of this sentence. Let's just say, I'm going to make some: that a fine punishes an economic operator who performs production, i.e. the transport of psychoactive controlled substances contrary to this law, then, if he transfers a license for production and transport to another legal or natural person, if he transfers a licence for export, or imports to another legal person, if he grows hemp contrary to the provisions of this law, if he produces plants from which psychoactive controlled substances can be obtained, he carries out their turnover, if he has a maximum of contrary to this law, if he is importing, or exporting straws, contrary to this law, if he is importing medicinal products containing psychoactive controlled substances, for which no drug authorisation has been issued, etc. So, very exhaustingly, you've listed 11 very serious violations here. You're proposing a fine for this kind of economic offense from one million to three million dinars. We suggested that the smallest threat be two million. So, a business offense would be punished by two million to three million dinars, because we simply consider it a violation of this seriousness that the lowest threatened fine of a million dinars is too small. You have responded that you consider your proposal better, of course, as soon as you have not accepted the amendment, and that there is a sufficient range left to the judge that, in a court procedure, depending on the infringement found, determines the appropriate fine. You object to this proposed amendment not to leave sufficient range to determine the fine. Well, that was the intention of this amendment, because we think that this range that you're offering is too large from one million to three million dinars and that the lowest impediment to these very serious economic crimes should be at least two million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49102	25 seconds of MP time was used. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 109. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, it is under review because there is no report from the Legislative Committee, so the National Assembly in the voting day will declare this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 111 submitted by MP Sreto Peric, and the Government and the Committee on Health and Family have also accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49103	This amendment requires a replacement of the word "two years" in the word "one year". It is stated in Article 2(2) that, within two years of the date of entry into force of this Act, the Ministry’s inspection shall carry out inspection controls and determine the fulfilment of the conditions for production, i.e. transport, or for the performance of the tasks of the authorised laboratory. This law has come to the congregation procedure by emergency procedure, with an explanation that it is necessary to apply it as urgently as possible. If the law is to be applied as urgently as possible, Article 114(2) is in breach of the urgency of the adoption of this law. Also, the reasons for urgency cannot be either the EU rules or the UN, which you called for in your explanation, since they date back to 1961, 1971, 1966, 2004 and 2005. Does this mean that by 2005 and after Serbia was not obliged to comply with those rules? I understand your haste to harmonise RS regulations with EU regulations, but how will you explain and justify giving a two-year-old inspector a time limit to supervise the work of legal persons who have been authorised to work with psychoactive controlled substances? In order for the law to be applied as quickly as possible, it is necessary to shorten that time limit to one year, as this amendment reads, but you wrote it in your explanation to me, or you simply signed this point of Article 114 for not accepting the amendment, which is essentially no explanation whatsoever.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49104	The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49105	And this amendment requires a reduction in the time limit to be laid down for the implementation of this law from 18 to nine months. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment. Given the need to apply the provisions of this law more urgently, it is necessary to shorten the time limits for the adoption of the rules implementing this law. In the meantime, it will apply, you said in law, regulations that were in force until the day of entry into force of this law, if they are not contrary to this law. What rules will apply if these are contrary to the law that you are about to adopt, and the new ones have not yet been passed, that is a question that there is no answer in this law. This is the fate of similar questions that are brought by emergency procedure, so we will wait for answers not long, about two to three months. As usual, these same laws come into congregation procedure as amendments and additions to the law. If you really intend to do as quickly as possible by applying the regulations, then hurry up with that until all of Saric's illegal laboratories have finished processing drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-20-0.u49106	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, December 22nd, 2010, starting at 14.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. That's what we do for today. Thank you all.
