ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, allow me to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. Otherwise, I want to tell you that I am the government's authorised representative for this law, because the Commissioner for Refugees cannot be an authorised proponent, so to speak, and cannot participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of taking the word, and, given that the Ministry of Interior is a second-degree body in some issues when it comes to refugee problems, it was also the decision that I represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia here today. As you know, the Republic of Serbia provides shelter to the largest number of refugees in Europe. According to UNHCR, one out of five countries in the world with an extended refugee situation and the only such state in Europe. Let us remind ourselves that in the 1990s the Republic of Serbia was faced with several mass waves of refugees from the former republics of the SFRY and that at the peak of the refugee crisis in Serbia, 537,937 registered refugees and about 80,000 wars of endangered persons were found. The 2001 census registered 377,131 refugees, and in 2005, 104,246 refugees. The reduction in the number of refugees is mainly the result of integration into the Republic of Serbia, and to a lesser extent the result of return and resettlement to third countries. Today, the number of registered refugees in Serbia has decreased to 86,000 people, with the expectation of a further reduction in the number of persons in this status. What did the Republic of Serbia do in the meantime? The arrival of a large number of refugees required the immediate legal arrangement of their position and protection, that is, their organised care, which was also done by adopting the Law on Refugees in 1992. This law in Serbia recognises the right to work, includes all programmes of care, education, health care, and their housing needs have been addressed in line with the possibilities. Serbia has allocated huge funds, and refugees are also supported by international donations. Given that the refugee crisis has lasted for more than 17 years, the Republic of Serbia has gradually switched from a humanitarian nature to a programme that supports their integration. As many of these faces are facing many difficulties today, starting with material, health, social and others, and unable to return to their place of residence from which they have escaped, there is a need to regulate the issue of their integration, which, in the sense of this law, includes, in particular, the issue and the resolution of housing needs. The proposed amendments and additions to this law have been made to the provision of certain provisions of the law, which do not affect the already recognised status under the provisions of the applicable Law, but restricts the possibility of giving new status. In addition to returning to the country of origin, the Republic of Serbia sees integration as one of the permanent aspects of resolving refugee issues. The proposed solutions therefore provide a normative framework for helping to address housing needs for those persons who have decided to make a permanent solution through integration in the Republic of Serbia. The need for protection, assistance in accessing rights and finding permanent solutions in line with the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia for more than 300,000 persons, both those still in refugee status and those to whom the status has ceased, justify changes and additions to this law. Applying the Refugees Act, as one of the main types of refugee management, provides for housing of refugees in collective centres, which was a real situation at the time of its adoption. The national strategy to address the issues of refugees and internally displaced persons, adopted by the government in 2002, envisions the closure of collective centres by providing assistance to persons leaving collective centres, among other things, and the resolution of housing needs. A significant contribution to the closure of collective centres was provided by foreign donors through accommodation of refugees in newly built immovableities, the assignment of building materials, the purchase of rural houses with a garden or through other types of assistance. Real estates have been obtained, according to the applicable regulations, in state property. More than 85% of the available facilities for refugees are provided on the basis of donor programs designed to provide housing for refugees, the good part of which is built according to the principle of self-building or partial construction. In all donor programmes, under which immovableities have been provided for the needs of the evasive persons, the donor's explicit will is to transfer the immovable property, under favourable conditions, to the property of the evasive persons. The international community continues to provide for the allocation of additional funds to implement the process of integration of refugees, especially through collective centre closure programmes, in line with the National Strategy for addressing the issues of refugees and internally displaced persons. The amendments and additions to this law provide for ways to address the housing needs of the refugees, to give fixed-term immovableity, to lease for a certain period of time with the possibility of buying, as well as the allocation of funds to improve housing conditions, to purchase construction material for start-up construction, to purchase rural houses with gardens, and to grant dedicated loans or through other donor programmes. Own living space is the most important prerequisite for the integration of refugees. Most of the refugees still live in rented apartments, relatives and friends, collective centres, as well as social protection facilities. The proposed legal solutions allow the integration of those refugees who are not able or because of fears of persecution or discrimination, do not want to return to the territory they have escaped from. The funds received from beneficiaries who address housing needs in the integration process, under the provisions of this law, are paid to the special account of the Republic of Serbia's budget and are used to address the housing needs of refugees, who have been recognised under the Refugees Act, who have expressed their desire to permanently integrate and meet the conditions prescribed by this law. In addition to this, funds will be used for other integration programmes. These funds are strictly dedicated and will especially be recorded in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The funds are available to the Commissioner for Refugees under the Annual Programme of the Government on a proposal from the Commissioner. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act creates a normative basis and a framework for removing the shortcomings of the applicable Law in the regulation of the rights and positions of refugees, as well as for achieving the conditions for their permanent integration. Given that the topic we are talking about today is of paramount importance, not only for the citizens of Serbia, but also for all the refugees on our territory, I would like to call on the MPs to vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act. Of course, in the discussion in particular and in committee sessions, we will consider all amendments and if they are considered to improve the envisaged text of amendments and additions to the Law, they can, as far as we are concerned, be most seriously considered and accepted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38128	Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that for the LDP parliamentary group, the authorised representative will be MP Zarko Korac. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38129	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the irony of fate or chance has given us the task of discussing today those who were the result of what we discussed all day yesterday. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, which is on the agenda today, Serbia with the utmost attention and with due respect for these people (a fugitive and displaced persons) is today discussing this law, because Serbia is unfortunately doing so with full capacity because it is the number of internally displaced and exiled first countries in Europe, and among the five countries in the world by extended refugee. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at a recent conference of the heads of diplomacy of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia, entitled "A permanent solution for the evasive internally displaced persons - the co-operation of the region", attended by representatives of UNHCR, OSCE, the EU and the Council of Europe, noted that the problem of the refugee and exiled persons of the humanitarian, economic and political character and that the achievement of permanent solutions is possible only through the successful co-operation of all countries in the region. Various views on the issue have led, unfortunately, to the fact that even after five years of signing the 'Sarajev Declaration', under which the former SFRY states have committed themselves to solving refugee problems, numerous problems of refugee families and displaced persons have not been adequately resolved. I repeat once again, Serbia is the first country in Europe by the number of exiled and internally displaced persons, and among the five countries in the world after extended refugee! The biggest problems among refugees in Serbia are exiled from Croatia. The problem is disputes, first of all, about housing rights. Several tens of thousands of household rights holders cannot return to their homes and, like all other citizens, buy their apartments. This is a fact, although the head of Croatian diplomacy said that "Croatia has serious access to its obligations", stating that it has restored 146,000 destroyed houses and that 120,000 have been integrated, refugees and exiled, as well as that it has been resolved without restrictions. The BiH minister said the state has largely returned property to the old owners and has allowed them to buy apartments with tenant rights. He recalled that BiH left two million and 200,000 of its inhabitants between 1992 and 1995. There are currently more than half a million people in refugee out of BiH. Most of them are in Serbia and Croatia. In doing so, around 7,000 refugees from Croatia and about 1,500 refugees from Kosovo and Metohija live in BiH. The number of refugees in Serbia, according to the 1996 census, was about 538,000, as well as 78,000 wars of people at risk. According to the 2001 census, the number of refugees is about 37,000. The status of refugees for 104,246 persons was confirmed between 2004 and 2005. According to the Refugee Commissioner, 69,500 people have returned to Serbia, 79,000 persons in BiH and other republics of the former Yugoslavia. 46,000 people went to third countries, and about 40,000 people, unfortunately, died. Between 2000 and 2005, more than 20,000 people arrived from Kosovo and Metohija, so the number of internally displaced persons in Serbia was around 210,000 at the end of 2009. If it is known that the Refugees Act was passed, I would say, back in 1992, when the mass wave of refugees from the former republics of the SFRY, and in the meantime, with the help of the international community, has been done a lot, although we are not satisfied with the final solution, are clear reasons that require the Law on Refugees to change and supplement, which he spoke of in the opening statement by Minister Ivica Dacic. He discussed concrete changes and additions and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, which were also discussed today by Minister Dacic. I'd just like to point out some facts. From 1991 to 2001, assistance provided refugees with assistance from the state of Serbia and the international community through accommodation of refugees in collective centres, by launching housing projects, and by the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the High Commissioner for Refugees. Since 2002, the programme of Commissioners, international organisations, including local self-government units, has been launched for the permanent resolution of refugee housing, through projects of complete construction, partial construction, self-building, purchase of rural households, installation houses, building materials, adaptation of social centres for the accommodation of older people and others. Three major projects began following the adoption of the National Strategy in 2002: firstly, support for the National Strategy for the closure of collective centres, secondly, support for improving refugee living conditions and, thirdly, housing for refugees and displaced persons. By July 2009, about 3.5 thousand apartments were built this way. In co-operation with local self-government, 670 housing solutions were realised. It is also a significant donation from the Japanese government to wartime and military people with disabilities and families of fallen fighters, giving favourable loans for working families of refugees. However, the achievement of lasting solutions is possible, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, only through the successful co-operation of all countries in the region. To conclude, two are the basic goals that we must strive to achieve a lasting solution to the evasive and displaced faces. First, to enable the return of all the refugees and exiles who want it. Secondly, integration without any form of discrimination, in the middle of which the exiles live and, related to it, security of the basic right to housing. In all decisions of the EU Council, which contain the principles of European partnership with Serbia, provisions are also contained, I quote: ''The refugees, who decide not to return, need to facilitate integration; adopt a new law on refugees in Serbia and continue implementing the National Strategy on Refugees. ''I am pleased, therefore, that both these recommendations and the principles of European partnership with Serbia, by the Council of the European Union, the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia today has its agenda. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as chairman of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I will personally advocate that, in cooperation with the Commissioners, the problems of displaced and evaded persons, above all, as a control of the enforcement of legislation, and also as a monitoring of the implementation of government and international projects. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38130	I am informing the National Assembly that Serbia's authorised representative will be Mico Rogovic for the Prosperity Group, and for the New Serbia MP, Aleksandra Jankovic. Does the People's MP, Aleksandar Pejcic, want an opinion on the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38131	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, representatives of the Government, for my opinion on the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs on the Refugees Act. With all due respect, Mr. Minister, I am sorry that Mr. Krkobbiæ, Deputy Prime Minister, is not here today, because he is in charge of dealing with refugee problems, he even has a refugee advisor in his office, so in that sense we waited for him to come here to elaborate the law. When it comes to the Refugees Act, we must say that Serbia has a large number of refugees, we heard just now that it is among the five countries in the world, the first in Europe. These people have found the possibility of housing in collective centres, some have lived in private, some have even bought apartments, some have integrated in our society, some have gone to third countries, so the problem of refugees since 992 has not been adequately solved. This law that we need to pass today should be a normative assumption of a permanent solution, because the previous law has not resisted the teeth of time. To be honest, we from the DSS are both demanding in this regard, as the law passed in the government of the Republic of Serbia as early as 2006, but because of the early parliamentary elections it did not enter the assembly procedure. I'm sorry that this socially responsible government has been in power for almost two years, and we didn't have this law in the procedure here in the Assembly. When it comes to this law, we must say that this law solves a permanent issue of refugees. There are about 3.5 thousand households that should permanently resolve their housing status. But what's the anomaly of this law is that it's collapsing with the Social Housing Act, what's it about? It is said that on the basis of the SIRP programme, which was supported by the Government of the Republic of Italy, and also by HABITAT, the UN organisation, was built in seven cities, a number of social dwellings, in which refugees have emigrated, but there are social cases. This law, the Social Housing Act, does not allow refugees to buy these apartments. We warned right here, the opposition warned, that this law is not good because of these things I'm talking about right now. However, the ruling majority deafened to it. Therefore, you have to spot the new social housing law, so that these other families, have 530 households, help buy apartments at affordable prices. I hope this ruling coalition makes it possible for these people, because they deserve it. Normally, it's very easy for you to change those laws. We adopted the Law on Equal Regional Development four months ago, and here we are now changing it, so I expect this law to change as soon as possible, so that these people, who are now unable to buy apartments, were thus allowed to buy these apartments on favourable terms. We must point out that, too, many local self-governments have made action plans regarding refugees. We, here in Leskovac, have adopted an action plan for the purchase of rural households and agricultural land to help refugees and internally displaced persons integrate into local self-government. Of course, it is a good message for those who return from EU countries under the Law on Reading, so that they can find their haven and return to their hearths. What we expect from this government of the Republic of Serbia is a comprehensive action, to talk in a diplomatic manner to countries in the environment, especially Croatia, because Croatia is a country that has not solved the problem and refugee status. It has solved the problem and allows only those refugees who have not resolved their permanent status in Serbia to return. However, those refugees who have resolved permanent status have been banned from coming to Croatia. Bosnia and Herzegovina has indeed dealt with it in one correct way, as well as many other countries. Slovenia even allowed pensioners to receive pensions, those who used to work in Slovenia. So, three basic conditions for this law to succeed, and that is, above all, the urgent adoption of this law, then, the alignment with the Social Housing Act, as well as strong diplomatic activity, primarily the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also these governments. We expect you to help all these people in one right way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38132	Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Yes) The word has an authorised representative, MP Nikola Krpic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38133	President-in-Office, the working presidency, Mr. Minister, I was tasked with speaking a word in front of the United Pensions Group of MPs about this law today. We need to remember on March 24, 1999, when at 20.00 NATO forces, without UN approval, in an action of 78 days, 19 countries of Europe, the most modern country of the world, flew and destroyed this country and created the problem we are talking about today. If that weren't for us today, we wouldn't be talking about this refugee law and we wouldn't have to talk at all. But the facts and the truth tell, those who made refugees don't admit it, don't help and don't pay for war damage. Remember the company, "Televisions", remember Cicevic and the small militia, as well as others who were killed by NATO aggression and their parents. Half a million people received Serbia, wide open hearts and arms. They are now integrated in our Republic, and that is something to be acknowledged, which should be said that the government or government of this country has done much, or as much as it could at certain times for their care. I just said that these are facts and truths, because my city is where I come from, which is why I know the facts and the familiarity, the city of Kraljevo, at the first moment had over 50,000 of these people or every tenth. What do I want to say? They need a lot, a lot of things. They were first received by collective centres, which were, above all, sports halls, they were schools, they were some other institutions and free spaces, which were overcrowded. There were also deaths, so there were problems with their burial. The Commissioner for the Refugees of the Republic certainly deserves a lot of praise. At that time, it certainly wasn't an easy task for those people who were dealing with this problem, and I think they did it honestly and honestly, and all the recognitions to the Commissioner for the Refugees of the Republic of Serbia. The Commissioner for Refugees still needs help today, because that story isn't over yet. Today, about 100,000 refugees are still in the areas of the Republic of Serbia. What do they need help with? Human and economic aspects are important to them. Besides human resources and economic opportunities, very little has been done for them. First, they need to be provided with a lot, first of all, free health care, because they have nothing and can't pay any of the costs and contributions health care requires, counting on complete health care, for all visions, for both children and adults. Secondly, they need to be assisted in the education system by enrolling in schools through student and student scholarships and loans to those who are studying. Third, to provide European consultations with the European Commissioner for Refugees, because what Serbia is doing is only due to the damage from the countries that attacked and bombed this country, and made chaos in this country. The Republic of Serbia deserves all help. And finally, I ask my fellow MPs, that we accept this law to the heart, for the reason that it is really good, and through the amendments we will supplement something more, but for the United Pensioners of Serbia this law is good and in the day for the vote we will all vote for this law. We also commend the Commissioner and the Serbian government for what has been done for refugees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38134	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38135	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, since this is a debate in principle I will say some general things about this law. First of all, it seems to me here that it's a draft law on changes and supplements, and it seems to me that this is practically a new law than it is only amendments and additions, but it can be a matter of assessment, a matter of semantics, but what I want to talk about is that I think it's essential for this law and for the situation of refugees in this country. The problem of refugees in our country has existed since 1991, meaning 18 years of age. I want to warn you that postwar Yugoslavia, I think it was called the Democratic Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has solved this problem in about 10 years. This means that we are solving this problem much longer than it was solved by Yugoslavia that came out after World War II, as a measure of comparison. We have a law, amendments to the law, that doesn't do anything at the beginning. Someone will say it's not the subject of the law. Yes, it is! When the right law is being discussed, in fact, what is the process that takes 18 years to do right, and what is not done right? In other words, somehow, you get the impression when you read these changes and that law that just started that integration process, and for those 18 years some good things were done, some bad things, some showed... Someone will say, "Well, that is why the law is changed." That's a pseudo response. I don't see one fundamental assessment of what's right and what's wrong, but what's my fundamental observation, please take seriously, is that the ministers responsible for refugees in the region have the consent to bring this process to an end. I really don't understand whether this process is ending in Serbia or not. If not detained, the two options are, at this point I am not ready to define myself, the first is: technical, material, organisational and economic situation of the country – that we are not able to complete it, and the second one, can be political, to answer someone not to end this process anyway, so that such dramatic words, which are otherwise true, that they stand out here, we have the largest number of refugees, etc., that the refugee knows which way, nolens-volens, perhaps someone does not want to deliberately appear as one political weight when Serbia is talking about his international position. I'd like to know if we as a state are incapable of solving this problem or if we don't want to solve it. And that's not a simple question at all, not a naive question. Of course, someone will be cynical to say that this is all done, of course, not done, because of 50 people in the Commissioner, but I would like to know when this process ends and how the state assumes the obligation, this is done by serious authorities, when, at what point, this process will end? This looks like the refugee problem in Serbia will last most of the time. Now some specific questions. What is the target group, or subgroup of this law? Are we talking about 800,000 refugees from the biggest mechanical inflow in 1995, or are we talking about 500,000 people from the 2001 census, or are we talking about an estimated 200,000 then, or about 86,000, how many are today with refugee status, or are we just talking about socially endangered persons with refugee status, which is at most 10%?- I'm sorry. And it's for the state to be resolved without law. For that, the state doesn't have to have the law to solve this problem. I'd like to say exactly. Another problem not considered in Serbia is that we have another generation of refugees, a generation of children. In other words, it takes so long, this problem, 18 years, that we now have a serious shift of generations. Now we have another generation of refugees - children. The refugee children still feel like refugees because their status hasn't been resolved. What is meant by integration aid in Serbia? That is a very precise question, therefore, to be told exactly by the refugees if they want to integrate what they can count on in this country, what the state will do for them, how to help them integrate. Is that a roof over your head, a job in the profession, hiring their children? In the period from 1991 to 1995, to be precise, I only talk about one part of the refugees, especially from the urban part of Croatia, they came to Serbia and got jobs then, very often, a small number, from the urban parts of Croatia, educated people, received jobs in the same companies they worked there. I'm talking about the period from 1991 to 1995, when there were fewer, do you want this practice to continue or not? So a large number of refugees feel that this is the way to do it, that they have a certain right to work in the profession, not only in the profession but in the workplace that corresponds to some of the jobs they worked at. I think it's an expectation, and logically, people have work experience, they're educated and they're able to work. Finally, what does it mean to return refugees to their country of origin? Of course, help, help Serbia when it decides. Does our country encourage and oblige refugees to engage in acquired property rights in the country of origin? This applies primarily to the Republic of Croatia. I have to say that a large number of refugees, I don't blame them for it, but I'm finding reality, not asking for their property. Does the state oblige them to do that? If they do not conduct a desert debate, they do not apply for retirement, for rebuilding houses, etc. What is our country's policy? That she encourages refugees to seek it, that she obliges them to seek it all, to provide them with legal assistance and legal advice on how to do so in the country where they want to do so? So everything's wanted, and nothing gets here, and then the question is, what is this return package? I have to say that the policy that has been strongly popular in the media, these famous 20 tractors, as far as I know, three tractors are only in function, and as far as I know, about one tractor, there is a dispute in the Clay, even a judicial dispute over ownership over that tractor, it seems to me that there's no logic in that way helping to get refugees back. First, Serbia itself is poor, and it seems to be not the best way. It is only 20 tractors, it's not a number, but if this is a road, it doesn't look good, because according to what I have, most tractors aren't in operation today, I'm talking about the duchy 20 tractors. It's obviously not a good way to go. Therefore, we have experience of what should not be done. The last question that all refugees are always talking to me about, it's a matter of housing. About 3,000 housing units built in Serbia, in so-called refugee settlements, some estimates say that a quarter is not used for use. I repeat, some 3,000 quarters are not used on purpose. Also, in Croatia, the right of people to return is achieved – to resolve their housing issue. People get an apartment there, but they keep it here. Is there some obligation, not only on paper obligations, that those who have received apartments in the country they returned to, in this case Croatia, and not only must Croatia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, do they have a serious obligation to return the apartment they got here? Unfortunately, there are a small number of cases, but it's not so small, it's using both rights. Don't just formal right that he has to, I just, I know cases that people didn't do it, so they have an apartment here, which often, sometimes, even betrays. In other words, is it one obligation and does the state very much insist that those who received the property when they returned, that the housing unit must return here? Finally, I must say that in this new bill, the position of commissioners is highly centralised. I'm just going to say that under this new law, the position of commissioners is like this, it extends its mandate to five years, gets the status of civil servant in office, independently decides to open and close collective centres, has no obligation to report to the government, at least I don't see it. Excuse me, the refugee commissioner would have to file a report and refugee associations, at least the more serious ones, opening a special account, solving refugee housing issues. These are the great powers of the commissioner. What is the reason for the commissioner to receive such great authority by a new law, and what is the logic of this law being done?- I'm sorry. Here, these are some principled questions and remarks that we have as a parliamentary group. And, just one more question, I apologize, I'm asked to pass this on, as an authorised representative, it's also about yesterday's conversation, we have one category in Serbia, I'm going to say at least in one case, in the town of Priboj, I'm talking about people who don't have the status of internally displaced persons, some are abroad, in fact, forced internally displaced persons, as people from Kosovo. In 1992, they had to leave their homes, Bosniaks, mostly, and no rights can be realised, have no internally displaced status, only Kosovo is recognised, and they are in fact internally displaced persons. Is there a possibility in some specific cases, in some regions such as Priboj, to make an insight, a concrete analysis, and to show that some cases in Serbia, in some parts, also deserve the status of internally displaced persons, such as the case of Pribod in 1992? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38136	Since the time of the authorised representative, nine minutes have been used for 50 seconds. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38137	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS Group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Refugees Act. I want to, on behalf of the parliamentary group, point out four questions, to encourage and debate this, and at the same time to call on that, given that it is a very important law that is changed after so many years, we all contribute to, in the end of the day, that all amendments are considered in the best possible way, taking all those solutions that contribute to the improvement of this law. I say this for the following reason: given that Serbia, I may say, has shown itself when refugees are involved. The refugee law was passed in 1992. It was a time when both Serbia and the world faced a new definition of refugees, a new concept, a new category. Why? It's about people being exiled from parts of one country to part of another country. It's about people who belonged to SFRY. It was a single country where all citizens had the same rights, the same legal status. It is therefore not about persons who have been exiled from a third country to Serbia and become refugees. It is the new category that was created then, but it was obviously created as a result of persecution from other Yugoslav republics. Then a law was passed which, as normally, had basically the need to take care of people and achieve their social security. Therefore, these people were to be taken care of. I think Serbia has done it in the best possible way, by accepting over 600,000 citizens of other republics, who have fled to Serbia. So Serbia has taken over the population of the size of a country, today's independent Montenegro. So, one Montenegro accepted under its wing, provided all kinds of assistance that could be given at that time. And that's one period. Another point is that after 2000, a new polarity arises, when the state of Serbia is defined, not only for care, it has been many years, but also for the start of some permanent solution. And finally, the state of Serbia today, the government on behalf of Serbia, after a long time comes out with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, which now basically has three things: care, stays, but opens up the issue and creates normative assumptions, shows its seriousness and policy to permanently resolve, within its possibilities, this problem, and the permanent solution of refugees is a return to the republic from which integration in Serbia has been avoided, where they are. I just want to make a few comments on all three of them. When it comes to care, therefore, acceptance, accommodation, assistance, material and other, nutrition, etc., are still present in Serbia. When it comes to health care, work, employment, they have rights like all Serbian citizens. Of course, when it comes to these other two categories,'return' and 'integration', for the first time the state is legally determined that it is ready to provide assistance and enable the integration of refugees. The law states that these are persons who cannot return to the republic from which they defected, that they are persons who do not wish to return in fear of persecution and discrimination. This law creates normative assumptions to help these people in the integration process. I want to point out here in the first place, however much praise is given to Serbia's definition of integration of these people, without discrimination, in line with the opportunities it has, it remains ahead of Serbia's task of number one, most important, which is'return'. Serbia must neither, because it is defined for integration, to give up those activities that will allow those people to return. In other countries, it must not be in the environment to get the impression that Serbia is ready to integrate the population in its country from them to resolve these issues. I thought it should be pointed out, so we wouldn't forget that the main issue was the refugee return. The third segment, which I want to point to, is precisely this question, which has even, perhaps, provoked and initiated the adoption of this law, which is to address the housing needs of refugees in Serbia. A legal framework is being created, even, the biggest part of the law is dedicated to supporting and helping integration, and Serbia commits to providing assistance to refugees in addressing housing needs. And precisely for the reasons, which I'm sure there have been different experiences, it very precisely determines how these issues can be solved: by giving to use for a certain time, renting for a certain time, buying, by providing help with the allocation of funds to improve housing conditions, by buying construction material, by buying a rural house, by precisely listing. What is also important to point out, which is, very precisely, who has the right to do so. And if I can translate these six points that are listed in Article 19b, at risk, into one, there are those that have no real estate here or there, so to speak. Furthermore, when the law is looked at, it accurately foresees the procedure for the allocation of funds and, among other things, precisely determines how one of these five variants can be used, which is 'purchasing'. The ransom is under favourable conditions, as the law says - the value of the facility is reduced by 50%, and then, further lists the categories, built on the principle of partial construction another 40%, and then, if they are disabled another 10%, with what is determined to be the highest 90% reduction compared to the price. Finally, when it comes to this procedure, when aid is given in terms of the assignment of a rural house, building material, the person who uses it is obliged to get, to contribute to the completion of the job himself – solving the refugee problem, by, of course, only after five years, in part, on the scale again, returning those funds. All in all, I think it is a significant step, we think it is significant, points out Serbia in the first place, in terms of a serious and responsible relationship with this problem and imposes, and Serbia should continue to impose countries in the environment on the main obligation that they are obliged to solve the problem of refugees who have escaped from that territory, and Serbia must not give up on it. Of course, there are a whole series of concrete issues, starting with the household law in Croatia, how much data I have, about 50,000 pensioners who have escaped from Croatia, and a whole series of other issues. And in the end, I think, at least normally, Serbia defines it as having a final number, because it's now talking about 86,000, that it has them. Many say it's not the correct number. The law leaves the possibility that those who have not received refugee ID may, within the next month of the entry into force of this law, obtain it and thus end the story. The rest goes under the second law, the asylum law. Serbia has the right to say that it has done much for refugees, from the moment it received them, from the moment it began to refer to them in the best possible way, over the moment it began to enter the process of permanent resolution, of course, with the help of the international community's funds. And, here, now that it's entering this final process of solving these problems permanently, it's exactly what sets Serbia apart at the moment as a serious, responsible, leading country in this region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38138	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 14 minutes and 20 seconds have been used. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and the People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38139	This law is basically good. In addition, as early as April 2006, the government of Vojislav Kostunica established the proposal, which did not enter the assembly procedure due to early parliamentary elections. The law is good because it has a good intention of solving the quality of people's lives, whose life has been permanently and irreversibly changed. He's also good because he's not talking about social housing, he's talking about the possibility of buying out and solving housing problems permanently. If our goal is integration, then the first step is to solve the housing issue. Of course, the question remains – how does this state imagine to solve the housing issue in concrete terms, because the good intentions of the law are one thing, and concrete application in practice is quite another, just as it is clear that the question of the status and quality of life of refugees must be resolved at the level of the relationship between the state of Serbia, the state of Croatia, the international community? A person in the role of Serbian President was on 24 March in a tourist visit to Josipovic, and on that occasion he did not mention a return, nor a fair compensation for the robbed and destroyed property of the Krajina Serbs, and it is only 50,000 apartments. Since these days are in fashion resolutions and declarations, I have a proposal for a quite serious parliamentary resolution that should present to the European Parliament the difficult situation of refugees and exiled Serbs from Croatia, or from Krajina, whose status issues the Republic of Croatia has not resolved since their exile from the centuries-old hearths. In 1995, in the presence of UNPROFOR's international peacekeeping forces, the Republic of Croatia expelled more than 260,000 Krajina Serbs from centuries of hearth and thus carried out the largest ethnic cleansing of a nation on the ground of Europe after World War II. Interestingly, many refugees do not seem to be interested in the problem. They adopted this resolution yesterday, and now they're gone, and those who are there are making noises. So 260,000 Krajina Serbs were ethnically cleared. If we add to the previous assessment that some 150,000 Serbs escaped from Croatia's urban centres after the 1991 civil war broke out, then it is not difficult to conclude that there are around 400,000 Serbs from Croatia in refugee and exile today, more than 300,000 of whom are in Serbia, while the rest of the refugees and exiled Serbs from Croatia have gone to some third countries, most of which are in Australia and Canada. And without a solution to the status issues of refugees and exiled Serbs, Croatia cannot become a member of the European Union, regardless of how and how this coalition works in power. Now, the potential resolution of the Serbian Parliament should also include the definition of status issues relating to Serbs in Croatia, and the first and most important issue is certainly the return of the taken-off historical rights of Serbs to Croatia, which is, in fact, the status of the constituent and state-owned people, who had in all the constitutionals of Croatia, after the Second World War, and on the basis of the ZAVNOH Decision, as the highest legislative body of Croatia in Topusko, the Decisions that were made on 8 March 9th 1944 and when, in fact, a resolution was adopted that equalises the rights of the Croatian and Serbian people. The next question that should certainly be addressed in some resolution is a question relating to the Krajina Serbs and which should be the strongest to condemn Croatia's military operations "Blash" and "Storm" from 1995, when the 260,000 Krajina Serbs were expelled, practically Croatia in the presence of international peace forces carried out ethnic cleansing. Had the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia's declaration of condemnation of all crimes been adopted, the matter would have been much simpler. A third extremely important issue, and this is a life-saving issue for refugees and exiled Serbs from Croatia, or Krajina, and their descendants, is the return and fair compensation for the robbed and destroyed private property during and after Operation Storm in 1995, by the Croatian warrior, whose value exceeds 30 billion euros. At first, I said it was a very special issue, which is a very important issue, the issue of housing rights. With the return and fair compensation of the robbed and destroyed private property of the Krajina Serbs, it is necessary, in practice, to apply for the return of tenant rights to refugees and exiled Serbs from urban communities in Croatia from 1991 to 1995. The apartments that were social property during this period are 50,000 apartments in Zagreb, Sisak, Karlovac, Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Sibenik, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Vinkovac, Slavonski Brod, Bjelovar, Varazdin, via Knin, Benkovec, Obrovec, Donji Lapca, Gračac, Korenice, Slunj, Vojnić, Glinj, Petrinje, Kostajnice, Dvora na Uni, Pakrac, Daruvar to Vukovar and Beli Manastir, as well as other places in Croatia. Fourthly, a very important issue related to a significant number of exiled and exiled Krajina Serbs and their return to captivity is that through the resolution of this assembly, the EU's request, the International Court of Justice for Human Rights in Strasbourg, that Croatian judicial authorities put all rulings out of force, based on which several thousand Krajina Serbs and former JNA elders, were sentenced in absentia, based on political orders by members of HDZ authorities and without material evidence. I am very pleased that today there is exactly the interior minister and deputy prime minister of the government, because he certainly knows very well about these Interpol warrants, because today based on the demands of the Croatian judicial authorities on international Interpol warrants, there are about 960 Krajina Serbs and former JNA elders treated as war criminals, which is indeed a unique example in the world, that from such a small territorial area, such as the western part of the province, there are 960 war criminals, which is of course another important reason why there is no greater interest in returning to their homeland. Fifthly, in a resolution by the Serbian Parliament to refer to the European Parliament and the EU, it is also necessary to state the irrefutable fact that in the civil war in Croatia, between 1991 and 1995, the lives of some 7,000 Krajina Serbs, of which 3,000 were liquidated in a monstrous way, and that about 2,000 Serbs are still missing. Because of this fact, the European Parliament and the EU must be asked an open and open question – why does the prosecution and the judicial authorities of Croatia not prosecute war criminals against Serbs in Croatia, or in Krajina, during the civil war in Croatia, 1991-1995? In addition, the Croatian judicial authorities commit to the fact that in Belgrade, a special division of the Special Court of War Crimes has been tried for years by Serbs from eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srem, who committed a crime against Croatian nationalities in the period from 1991 to 1995, while on the other hand, the trial for crimes committed in the Medak pocket, over Serbs in Krajina, turned to fars. Only when these problems are solved, at the level of relations between the state of Serbia and the state of Croatia and the international community, will we have the chance that such a law on refugees, which really has good intentions and points to the achievement of a better quality of life for people whose life has been permanently and irrevocably changed, will be adopted in the right way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38140	Since the time of the authorised representative, nine minutes and 40 seconds have been used. The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic, and after it, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38141	I thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, I did not really get the task of speaking on this subject, but I would like to say that, instead of you, we can do a little more, but unfortunately, the assembly procedure has been disabled, we are talking about this topic with the Commissioner and with the representatives of the Refugee Commissioner. I'm not alluding here that this is not your problem, but it's about direct questions that, in addition to the general authority of the government, are the most ingenuity of the commissioners, his assistants and the Commissioner for Refugees. It's just amazing that after yesterday's marathon session and the moment where we all feel a little worn out, about the crimes in Srebrenica, we have this important topic today. Such a law, which has 21 members, is too much like the rules on the work of the Commissioner and the rules on the work of the commissioners, rather than the law that seeks to regulate questions about this area which is really very complicated, difficult, present for so many years in these areas. And the thought itself and the mention of the word "refugee," indeed, is likely that no one else normally wants to talk about this problem, which after so many years is present here and at the premises of the former SFRY, especially in Serbia's space, is very unpleasant and difficult. The existing law regulated this matter in 1992. So it took literally 18 years to make changes and additions to the Refugees Act. As you yourself have said, although the most refugees in the area of Europe, of course, in Serbia, is still not sufficiently covered by the problem and way of resolving refugee issues. It's not just a failure of this government, it's a failure of all governments and governments from 1992 to 2010. The fact that for such a long period of time, a period of 18 years, the problem of refugees, as the most endangered category of persons, has not been completed, is inappropriate and does not serve anyone the honor. Because of the citizens who are following this session, I must say that the existing bill does not look like a proposal to amend and supplement the law, it is more like a new law, because it is noticeable that not only one member of the old Refugees Act is changing, it is Article 4, and all the other 20 members are suffering significant changes. I repeat again, these changes and additions look more like the rules on the work of the Commissioner for Refugees, and less and less like the law. If all, some, previous authorities had taken more care of this important problem, we would now really have the shortest possible technical corrections related to changes in the area of legislation, due to the quality of the integration of this layer of people into the social lives of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the intention of this law, primarily, is the integration of this person category, but there are other things behind this intention that I will talk about in the course of the debate and later in an individual debate, about amendments, something more. I must once again point out, for all of us, because of the full public, that we are, by the number of refugees, the first country in Europe, and the thirteenth country in the world. In doing so, we must not forget at any time the fact that there is a category of internally displaced persons in Serbia, more than 200,000, mainly from Kosovo and Metohija. Currently, some 300,000 people from the former SFRY republics live in our country, including the data, 86,000 with refugee status, and over 200,000 have resolved their status in recent years, or have taken the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. In the process of registration of refugees around 141,000 were recorded as refugees, there were about 10,000 complaints, and according to data available, about 107,000 received confirmed refugee status. According to UNHCR standards, one country, as you have already said, has a refugee crisis if more than 25,000 refugees live in it for over five years. In Serbia, a much larger number of refugees have lived for over ten years, in very difficult conditions. Thus Serbia ranks in five countries not prolonged, but indeed long-standing refugee crises. I must point out that the largest number of refugee problems in our Republic are solved by the process of naturalisation, unfortunately, and much less by returning to domicile countries or by moving to some third countries, because this is the path that refugees solve both citizenship and their status. In a particularly difficult situation, single parents, children, old ones, continue to suffer and are becoming less and less humanitarian aids. We know ourselves that lately, a growing number of collective centres have been closed in which this category of persons has been present. There are several thousand people still living in collective centres, and the largest number of people in this category are in relatives or living in private. Of the entire category of refugees, about 60% are still unemployed or unable to find a job. Most of them have lived in refugee centres for over ten years, and most of them can't reach their assets for years. The main problem in all of this is insufficient co-operation and obstacles in the area of the legislative regulations of neighbouring republics or former Yugoslav republics, especially Croatia, we all know that because the republic is mainly not prepared, nor regulates this area, or does not return property to the refugees. Croatian officials are reportedly calling for a return, but you, Mr. Minister, must know, for example, that a Serb in Croatia when buying a satellite antenna must report it to the MUP and report which satellite channels it is watching. The situation is different, although not good, in BiH. For example, about 120,000, this example is related to refugees from BiH, and it refers to the Croats, resolved its residential issue in the Republic of Croatia by usurping the apartments of our refugees, or Serbs from the Croatian area. I say, in BiH, this problem is, fortunately, better, but not sufficiently resolved and there are still about 10,000 disputes in this area, i.e. cases before domestic or international courts. Indeed, the conclusion is that a comprehensive issue of refugee problems in the entire region, especially in the former SFRY area, cannot be further delayed, and one of the modes and ways of solution, which you should insist on, is that these republics that prevent refugees from returning are prevented from running or EU membership. This is about applying double arches. If that were not the case, it would indeed be applied, because while Europe represents a large multiethnic pot, there are still homogeneous national environments in the Balkans, such as Slovenia and Croatia, not to mention other republics. One resident of the collective center says, "The refugee, how ugly it sounds, it's a tragedy," and it is a tragedy, "I have that book," thinks of the refugee, "it's a piece of paper that's both my personal and health book. I haven't voted in 17 years, and a man who doesn't vote isn't alive! By the day of judgment, I'll feel like a man who needs to go back somewhere, and I'm sick of the most nausea when I feel like I'm being accepted from where I came from. "The fact that someone has received a ID card and citizenship of the Republic of Serbia does not mean by the automation and resolution of his refugee problem, which means that this problem with us, unfortunately, since we still have a large number of refugees, will continue to be present in the long term. It is not true that some stories of the Commissioner, from before, that some 30,000 cases have been solved in the area of housing, still about 80% of this population has not yet resolved their housing issue, are being met as early as they came to the Republic of Serbia. All the refugees' commissioners made big promises, and there was little work. I ask, and you, Commissioner, how many times have you and what refugee center have you visited, how many times have you been in the field? We know that some of you before you were constantly present in the media and made promises. Of these promises, unfortunately for this category of displaced persons, there were empty stories. Now let's return to the most important members of this law and the most discreet members of this law. Already in the first article of the bill, one of the most controversial views of the old law is redefined in part, and it is said that, in the sense of this law, the citizens of the SFRY from the former Yugoslav republics and other persons resident in those republics, who, due to events and their consequences in these areas from 1991 to 1998, were also forced to flee to the Republic of Serbia. The old law says a similar definition, where refugees of Serbs and members of other nationalities, who were coerced by Croatian authorities and authorities in other republics, are said to have been forced to flee to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Both versions, both the old law and the new bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, define refugees related to a specific territory of the former Yugoslavia, for a certain period of conflict from 1991, 1995 to 1998, and according to UNHCR, I must remind you, those legal frameworks do not treat in this sense as our law and bill treats, because they do not bind closely to the frameworks, from which territories come and what time it refers. We were trying to solve this problem with the Asylum Act, as well as with the housing problem to solve the Social Housing Act, so here, in this legislative proposal, we put in place provisions that were supposed to contain the Social Housing Act before, rather than the Refugees Act. This is all contrary to the Convention on the Status of Refugees from 1951, and the 1967 Protocol on the Status of Refugees, under which the refugee does not have any geographical or time frames but is already treated as a universal phenomenon rather than a phenomenon related to a certain space and for a certain time. So, in line with the international commitments, it took Article 1 of this bill, and we did not, to comply with international law. By all definitions of "emigration" and "citizenship" these are two almost opposite concepts and they really rule out each other. One refugee cycle begins with the effective loss of one country's citizenship, i.e. the loss of the protection of a country whose nationality it is and ends either by integration into that country or by returning under the auspices of the host country. Refugee status, I must point out once again, can be lost by going to third countries. And in practice, I say once again, it is a rare example of tolerance between refugee status and citizenship. Even this bill has not given a clear enough solution to the situation in which the former SFRY, in Serbia, is located for 18 years. And does integration of refugees into the social life of the Republic of Serbia really want to be done, or is there something else behind it? The behaviour of people mostly from the Commissioner is not particularly appropriate. We cannot help but remind ourselves of various affairs and abuses during the previous period, especially in the Commissioner for Refugees, as well as various representatives of the community of these categories of persons. We can't forget the situation in 2002 about the abuse of 28 apartments related to this category of persons; six represented business space and were extremely unconditional, they were in the basement. We note that at that time, when buying these apartments, there was no respect for the procedure to obtain the mandatory consent of the Republic Property Directorate. I must remind you that these apartments were mostly intended for representatives of various communities of these categories of faces and some similar journalists. Here is an example of the abuse of Vojvodina, where one of the representatives of the community of Serbs from Croatia and BiH on the basis of the non-existent loan of the non-existent 'European Orthodox Agency' from the Banatian refugees in the area took 15 thousand dinars five years ago. Unfortunately, in Serbia, even some officials have become rich in another's accident, in this case, at the greatest, refugee accident. I must remind you of the seriousness of this topic and because of you present here at the statement of one commissioner in the previous period, the man who is directly in charge of this area and solving these issues and his words – we are not an agency that follows people's wishes. So much for the seriousness of civil servants, in the previous period, according to a really burning and big problem. I hope this doesn't happen again in Serbia. I have to ask you - what is the motive in Article 19a, Article 1, unequivocally states that there is an intention to establish absolute control of the Commissioner, perhaps the Commissioner, over the construction and distribution of dwellings, unfortunately, both built and distributed, and mostly those of the donor couples, and those that are yet to be built, mainly from credit funds? This second part of Article 1 of Article 19a I can understand, but the legal solution you're proposing for those apartments built and allocated in the previous years, mostly on the donor line, I can't even understand. If Article 19a were adopted in this bill, Article 1 would indeed represent an unprecedented scandal. You need to know, especially the commissioner, that UNHCR and donors when they were giving housing to refugees were giving them to a refugee-owned contract, not to the state. With this attitude, the state also becomes the owner of these apartments and newly built apartments. The category of apartments that people live in, in some and over ten years, should be divided, based on the contract between UNHCR and the people who received those apartments, so I suggest, because it is not too late, that Article 19a is corrected and amended. In a normal situation, the housing problem of these refugees should regulate the Social Housing Act, rather than dealing with this law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, and not with the housing and future housing to be built under the authority and jurisdiction of this law, in the authority of the Commissioner or Commissioner. In the jurisdiction of the Commissioner and the Commissioner, it should be the life of refugees, not the construction and purchase of apartments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38142	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38143	Ladies and gentlemen, the last time the Refugees Act was passed was in 1992. Since then, 18 years have passed, and there is no doubt that circumstances have changed significantly and that they require the adoption of a new law, namely to amend and supplement the existing law. I can agree with the views expressed here, which say that refugee status should not be extended indefinitely and that, simply, if the state does not have a clear view of this issue itself, it also puts the refugees in a situation to be passive and that they cannot take adequate care of their needs. In that sense, I hope that this is the last law on refugees we bring and that this law is in fact an opportunity to allow for the final and permanent integration of those people who have decided to stay in Serbia, not to return to their countries of origin. Who are really refugees in Serbia? These are people who have come to Serbia under pressure from war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, not with their own will, but because they have imposed political opportunities and because decisions on their small lives have been made by large political players. They were forced to move out with their families, small children and some basic things that they could carry, move out and come into a country they also believed was theirs. They started their life over again. I repeat, not by my decision, but because they were forced to. Even when you move to a much richer country with your decision, starting a life from the beginning is very difficult. When you move without your will to a country that is poor itself, pressured by international isolation, also by participating in various wars, it is undeniable that your position is incomparably harder and that it poses numerous challenges in front of individuals and families who have found themselves in such a situation. What's going on? There were people who were able to cope with this situation. It was mostly those who were better educated, who had greater personal potential and, undeniably, those who had greater financial resources. People who didn't have all of these, and they were the largest, were left to care for the Serbian state and their own potentials, as much as they could rely on them. There were over 500,000 refugees in Serbia in 1996, about 340,000 in 2001 and 2004/2005. About 100,000 years old. In all, the number of refugees in Serbia has decreased by 80%, which is a good indicator, but the fact that, after 18 years, we still have people who are refugees talking about Serbia, no doubt, has not been the best way to deal with these people. There were various reasons, but I think it should be made clear that, unfortunately, not only were there discrepancies, there were also abuses at various levels and abuses of funds intended for refugees. In 1996, there were 700 collective centres in Serbia and there were about 70,000 persons. In one period I worked on psychosocial assistance programs for refugees and entered every collective center in my district. I know that after six or seven years of refugee in them there were children who had never tasted milk and who had spent their whole lives until then feeding on some cabbage soup, if I may say so, and small amounts of bread. It was indeed something that, I believe, directed their lives. The fact that they are adults today, asks the question of how much are they themselves willing and able to take care of their families? What do the data on these people's poverty say? In 2003, about 25% of refugees were among the poorest. So they lived below the poverty line. In 2007, data are encouraging and say that only 7.4% of refugees lived below the poverty line and that they practically approached the domicile population, which was then 6.9% poor. There is no doubt that in 2008 and 2009, they bring about different trends. I believe that the latest statistics will certainly say that there are more poor and among refugees and among other Serbian citizens. Among refugees, 32% are unemployed, which means that this is a significantly higher percentage than the rest of the population, and 29% have income per household member which is less than 48 euros per month. Only 5% wants to return to the country of origin, and 44% of refugees confirm that they lack at least one document, which means that they are not citizens who have full access to all the institutions of our country or the countries from which they come. The situation is certainly the worst in terms of housing and other properties. Before the refugee, 88% of these households owned a residential facility, while now the percentage is 54%. On the other hand, the percentage of tenants rose from 4%, as many as were in the country of origin, to 26%, and now an additional 7% live in facilities that were resigned by relatives or friends. War trouble has affected households in a different way, so some housing status has deteriorated, as we have seen, and some have improved compared to the time before the war. This is evident from the fact that today's own living space has 55% of the former owners of the apartment, but also 50% of the former tenants. On the other hand, 27% of former tenants and 25% of former housing owners were present today. In addition to what I was saying about Serbia not being the best able to solve the refugee problem, I have to say that there is a fact that over 250m euros from its own budget, 42m for housing in collective centres and social contributions, 72m for health care, 150m for education. 631 rural households were purchased for the purpose of caring for refugee families, 20 houses were assigned. The program started in 2008. 3.249 packages of construction material are divided. About 3,800 residential units were built. So far, about 30,400 people have been taken care of through housing programs. More than one third of the refugees and the war on people at risk took the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, but it should be stressed that resolving housing problems is the most important issue of integration. The total funding needed to implement projects that would provide the necessary housing solutions for the most vulnerable families alone is 188m euros. The Republic of Serbia is ready to provide 4.2m euros through the 2009 and 2010 National Investment Plan for the construction of 150 housing units. To build the necessary housing units from the Republic budget and municipal budgets, another 35m euros should be provided. Also, we expect around 5.2m euros from the EU's pre-accession funds. The total funds missing despite all this are still at 143.5m euros. These are, let me say, the statistical and financial frameworks that talk about the matter that changes the laws that we regulate. What I'm saying is that the essence of these changes is actually what concerns solving housing needs. These solutions, the new solutions that this law makes, offer to address the housing needs of refugee families through the use of residential facilities, the lease, where the rent price is particularly favourable and it is obtained by multiplying the market price of a given space by 0,00121, which means that it is really significant, significantly below the market price of using that space, when otherwise taken into consideration. Also, it is possible to purchase facilities, with a price of 50% lower than the market price and can be up to 90% lower, depending on the conditions under which the household lives, and that is to say whether the household, the family has members who are disabled, whether or not someone has been injured in previous war activities, etc. The law also allows for improving housing conditions, means funds that would allow for improvement of housing conditions, but also the allocation of construction material for start-ups or purchases of rural households and houses, where families of persons who have escaped from the former Yugoslavia could be housed. I mean, the law has a lot of open questions. Some of those I tried to solve with the amendments. I want to say that this law has been discussed by the Committee on Poverty Reduction and that most colleagues have agreed on what I am about to present as observations. However, this is not the first time the Committee on Poverty Reduction has discussed this issue. We've had two or three public hearings over the past few years, which have talked about the situation of refugees, but we've also talked about this law when it was the last time in the procedure. As far as open issues are concerned, as I said, I think Article 2, in addition to regulating refugee health protection – regulation and social protection. Then, I intervened in Article 19v, when talking about the least possible square that solves the housing issue, which is legally intended to be "up to 30 square meters", i.e. it is intended to be for one or two members of the household to be up to 30 square meters. Since about 40% of refugee households are one-member or two-member, I believe that this is a really high percentage of people who are going to get hit by this, and that "up to 30 square meters" could mean 15 and 20 squares for, say, two people living in a household. I believe and I don't think it's gonna be a problem to solve it, at least by the reactions we've had on the Committee, to change this to 'at least 30 squares and for each 10 squares plus' member. Also, I have an intervention. I must say, we've worked these changes in collaboration with refugee associations and associations of refugees. Namely, there is one provision that says, when it comes to the contract of use, or lease – 90 days after the death of the user, unless its successors conclude the contract, that contract is no longer considered to exist. Given the fact that a large number of these people are indeed legally ignorant and may not be obliged to know the provisions of the Law or to meet within 90 days, we felt that it was necessary to make a commitment to the Commissioner to offer them a contract to conclude. One provision says that the right to address these housing needs will not be given by this law to those who are users of other programmes. Here we added one obligation – that this applies only to those programmes that could solve the housing issue and means that it does not apply to some minor payments, which could not be solved by the housing issue. I felt it was necessary for the Commissioner to report regularly to the Government. So far, the obligation has been a regular six - month reporting. However, these new proposals are foreseen – that only at the government's request there is a report. I believe that this is a bad solution and that it should exist – the obligation of regular reporting for six months. I think it also introduces additional control, transparency of the process and transparency of spending and, in general, all the activities that the Commissioner is taking. I think the issue of relations with refugee associations is open. I believe that refugees' associations should have played a greater role in this process and that the Commissioner should have made a greater commitment to respecting their participation, given that participation is one of the fundamental human and civil rights. I know all the challenges exist on this plan, but I think it was necessary to introduce a stronger commitment to co-operation and respecting the needs of refugee associations. Of course, there really remains an open question for these 500 families that this law will not be able, in the way they wish, to resolve their question. We received a petition signed by 476 persons representing their families, who through the HABITAT programme were able to sort out their housing issues in some way, but who simply won't be able to buy these apartments under this law. It's an open question because of what there is, I have to say, a legal dilemma. In fact, they signed a contract that obliges them not to buy those apartments. However, I believe that this can in some way, perhaps not this law, but in some ways absolutely need to be resolved, so that they will not be brought into an unequal position with everyone else. In the hope that this law will really contribute to making it possible for refugees to be integrated and that in a few years, indeed, there will be no more refugees in Serbia, but that all those who have defined themselves to stay and live in it will be fully integrated and evened with all others in the Republic of Serbia. The G17 plus will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38144	Thank you, Mrs Stojanović-Plasic. The word is from Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, the authorised representative of the DSS political party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's start with some things to be clarified right away. First of all, the DSS believes that this is a necessary law and that after 1992, when the first Refugee Act was passed, this is one of the laws that practically follows the course and time and changes that occur in that time. On the other hand, we welcome the adoption of a law like this, because it permanently resolves the status and position of refugees, because, you will admit, the right way to integrate someone into one environment is to have him live here and get an apartment, like any other citizen. The second thing, which I would like to clarify, and Mr. Minister, in the opening statement, touched the matter a few times, but he did not make it clear to the end, is – how did it come to be that Mr. Dacic, who is the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior, is to be the government's representative for this point, when we have another vice president, Mr. Jovan Krkobbic, who is, however, invisible, but also that he is in charge of this particular area, and that there is also an adviser for this area, and you will allow, in these difficult times, when Serbian citizens do not have, very, very much money – from the money of these Serbian citizens Mr. Krkobic pays his adviser, and today he cannot appear here to defend this law?- I'm sorry. Third, my surprise is Minister Rasim Ljajic, who has been dealing with this problem for a long time. God damn right it is, as Minister Dacic says, this problem is also in his area. It's true, but it also gets into Mr. Ljajic's area, so it would be more logical that he was here today, because we had to talk a little bit about that social housing bill, because everything that came up then and what we as DSS MPs have been commenting on now appears in this law as a problem. These things need to be clarified. One more thing needs to be clarified, because what I heard carefully listening to my previous colleagues, the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, have a problem clarifying two things –'status refugees' and'status of displaced persons'. That, of course, is not the same and we must not talk about it when it comes to this law. This law, gentlemen, applies only to the'status refugees' in Serbia. A few words to be commented, before that, are that the refugee crisis in the old Yugoslavia, in fact, started in the 1990s and that we from 1991 and 1992 to 1996 had at one point 540,000 registered refugees and perhaps more than a million true refugees who remained unregistered. Of those nearly a million, 300,000 people were from Croatia. Only 260,000 were from Krajina. I'm saying this on purpose, because yesterday we adopted a shameful declaration, so I'm hoping that maybe someone will come to mind if we adopt a declaration so that these people, too, can get some rights to that declaration and that their sacrifice will be appreciated. The 260,000 Krajis, gentlemen, escaped from the military operations of Storm and Flash. They ran away saving naked lives, leaving their property behind. Many have stayed, and we will never mention them, because we simply do not do such things. Some other victims are bigger than Serbian?- I'm sorry. At the moment when in Serbia, which I must say, she was poor herself, and I must say that I am proud that she then received all these refugees among her citizens, although she knew that she could not give them adequate or good enough accommodation and everything else, at that moment things started to happen the following way: one part of those refugees went to third-world countries, because, we must admit it, for God's sake, some of them found very good jobs, in very responsible places in those third countries, so to say, because they were very professional, very competent and those countries accepted them. They even had programs that offered these people to get there with their families. The second part is returned to some countries where they escaped, and I think, above all, to Croatia where a small part of the refugees came back and I have to comment that Croatia today has information that 120,000 refugees, practically, have been integrated into Croatia. Our data isn't like that. Our data is twice as rich, maybe even three times smaller than that 120,000. The third part of the refugees, who decided not to practically return, to stay in the country that received, is some of their resources, managed to manage Serbia, integrate and practically stay in Serbia. According to the latest data from 2008, about 86,000 registered refugees still reside in Serbia. Multiple uses of data, which I will also exploit because I think I should exploit it, especially last night after that shameful day and a shameful evening, I must say that according to UNHCR data, not Serbia, not the DSS you so easily accuse, Serbia is the first in the world in the number of refugees and displaced persons, and among five countries in the world on extended refugee. Look at the four more. These are indeed very poor countries and Serbia cannot really be put in the same basket, but it is clearly in it. Now is the basic question – can Serbia solve the refugee problem itself? I don't think she can, not because she won't, not because she doesn't, but because, first of all, she's very poor and she needs the help of the donor. And, on the other hand, we need something else that she doesn't have, although we swear on our great and powerful friends from the West, we actually have a problem that these great and powerful friends from the West help us by affecting, above all, Croatia to solve this issue, because this issue Croatia is obviously not going to solve by political means, telling us a very beautiful and very drinking story, which does not drink water, because it is not real. So, after 18 years, since this problem started in Serbia, things have moved from a dead spot, there have been many things that have made life easier for refugees, but we still have a problem with this problem that Croatia will not accept the commitments it has made by signing the Sarajevo Declaration. Another big question that needs to be answered and this government has to be held responsible, because I think it's time to influence that question. All the countries of the former Yugoslavia, I'm not talking about Slovenia, I'm talking about our work, are in some last yard, waiting for EU entry. The issue of refugee is a major issue the EU wants to address, it is obvious. And, perhaps, it is the last moment to insist on resolving the problem, primarily refugees who came from Croatia, because only in this way, in a way that there is still hope that the laws regulate the issues of the return of Serbs without waiting for Croatia to enter the EU, because then it will no longer have any reason to solve the problem. I was very symptomatic of something that happened just before this law was passed, and that, for example, was the end of March 2010, the Ministerial Conference of Foreign Ministers from the region was held in Belgrade, and it was precisely the problem of refugee, refugees, which was what was the topic for this ministerial meeting. I must quote Croatian Foreign Minister Goran Jandrokovic's statement that Croatia has created a system that allows all refugees to return to this country. It's just, I don't know why, then, refugees don't recognize this system as quality and why, then, don't regulate their return using the models of this system. Further in her statement, "Croatia has made very serious access to obligations by taking and accepting the Sarajevo Declaration. '"Let's see what these are obligations. The Sarajevo Ministerial Declaration is an act of political will, to regulate relations in the region, to ask and regulate the issue and end the issue and problem of refugeeism, in such a way that those refugees who want to return to the country from where they escaped, these countries and the opportunities, taking care of both civil rights and freedoms, taking care of such matters as property, and making sure that there is no discrimination. And if refugees do not want to return then those countries they have come to are, of course, Serbia, obliged to pass a law that would integrate refugees into their country, as well as other system laws to facilitate and improve the quality of life of those people in those countries. Unfortunately, the problem is not closed, although Croatia swears it respects those principles of the Sarajevo Declaration. I'll analyze it, along with you, that she doesn't really respect it. What is the problem and the biggest problem why this issue is raised and opened with Croatia? It's a question of non-recognition of acquired rights to former tenants. And most of all, this issue concerns those ethnic Serbs who lived in Croatia's cities. That's the question that concerns them most. OSCE representatives, UNHCR and the European Commission have voiced, beware, that the political consensus on compensation mechanisms has not yet been reached. But it is clear to them and us, and to all others, that Croatia has no intention of achieving this mechanism, nor do we as a country fight for European organisations to influence Croatia to open and solve this problem in a way that is resolved in BiH and which is otherwise solved in quality. So the problem is that these international organisations have double standards and what, when it comes to Croatia, they do not want to force Croatia to apply these standards to returnees who come to Croatia. To go back to Jandrokovic's statement. Here is the whole: "Croatia has made very serious access to obligations by accepting the Sarajevo Declaration, and above all when it comes to rebuilding the destroyed objects and there has been 146,000 destroyed and destroyed objects, which have been spent 5.3 billion euros. In Croatia, 120,000 refugees and exiles were integrated. The job experience issue has been resolved without restrictions. I would say that a new and better solution was found in Croatia ten days ago, instead of the long-term care of the owners of tenant rights. "Beware, the complete statement shows only one thing: in fact, this is a statement that should improve Croatia's image in the international public, but it shows us in Serbia that Croatia still has no intention of solving this problem in the way it was solved in BiH, nor does the international community intend to force it to do so. How can the problem of refugee be solved? Returning and integration. Let's see what the situation in Croatia is like when it comes back. First of all, there are some secret lists and secret indictments. It's a matter of fear for the people who come there. You see, there are often examples of such people in public. On the other hand, we insist that these charges be made public. Of course, we have no intention of protecting anyone who has committed crimes at all, but a public indictment is something that is an international standard and, as the public says. Another problem is the non-recognition of acquired refugee rights, former tenant rights holders. According to the OSCE estimates, 100,000 people in Croatia, ethnic Serbs, cannot solve this problem properly, as 100,000 people have blocked Croatia from returning their apartments. How did she block them? It's very simple, in 1996, she passed the law, abolished the housing law institute, abolished the housing law institute, and who left his apartment for six months doesn't live in it for six months, no longer has the right to get it back. The simplest, rudest, simplest, not respecting any international standard! That's what she did. No one's stopping her from bringing it back. After all, Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor lives in such an apartment. However, we must say that Croatia has started two housing programmes, but what is important is that none of them consider the illegality of the confiscation of housing rights or the issue of acquired rights to privatization of apartments under privileged conditions. So the Croats view the issue of housing as a humanitarian problem. That's, of course, inadmissible. It's not just a humanitarian problem. They, which is also very discussionable, do not allow a returnee who had the right to return to his apartment, nor in any way guarantee that he could return to his former place of residence. You'll allow it, it's very complicated for a returnee. He's coming back, and where's he going back? Not where it was integrated, but somewhere unknown, under unknown conditions. The third problem is just compensation for robbed and destroyed private property. Only in those mentioned actions of Flash and Storm, which we probably won't apologize for, I suppose, but I expect that, as some say we pulled the leg, now they apologize to us for the Flash and Storm, but I don't think we'll be expecting it. So, only in this "Blash" and "The Storm" in 1995 killed two thousand Serbs in Krajina, destroyed 40,000 Serbian houses in Krajina, completely burned 380 Serb villages, gentlemen. Well, I don't know if we should apologize for that, too. The total material damage, I'm not talking about human lives, is 30 billion euros. That's where I'd stop. I'll talk about the law later, I signed up to talk when we talk on the list. So, I've opened up some questions, and there might be an opportunity to open up just two more questions, have the minister be ready to know what we're going to talk about. Therefore, what we are interested in from the DSS are the data and estimates of the Refugees Building Fund, which is now at the disposal of the state of Serbia. We haven't been able to see that from this proposal, and that's something that makes sense. What's interesting to us, how many new apartments are planned to be built out of the funds obtained by buying these apartments? The law provides for the creation of a fund, the fund is supported by the purchase of apartments. We find that very interesting. Given that we've made amendments and we're arguing with the minister on one simple problem, the bill gives us the opportunity to forgive 90% of the value of the apartment, and we think it's small, because it's a ransom, not a gift, so two categories. Two, of the 10% left, there won't be a lot of apartments. So we'd like to talk about this later. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38146	Thank you. The remaining time of the authorised representative is two and a half minutes. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38147	President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia is the country with the largest number of refugees and internally displaced persons, as was said at the beginning of this debate, one of the five countries in the world with a long-standing refugee crisis. Although it has been almost 20 years since the first war conflicts, most of us have been carrying earthquake images of refugees coming from Slovenia, BiH, Croatia and, ultimately, the longest and saddest column of refugees from Krajina. Since 1991, Serbia has provided shelter for nearly 850,000 refugees and exiled persons. People have come who have left all theirs, therefore, with nothing at all. Unfortunately, it is not a small number of children born in collective centres, and today, instead of in their homes, they mark adulthood. No conditions have yet been created for the return of refugees and exiled persons, especially in the Republic of Croatia. Nearly 300,000 people, this is data specific to Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has managed to integrate and this is the most massive process of integration in Europe. A significant number of people returned to BiH, while Croatia's return is still well below expectations, about 18% of all refugees returned to Croatia, and these estimates range from 60,000 to 100,000 people who returned and remained there. Today I will also talk about their problems and the need for Croatia to create conditions for a larger and more significant return and for a return that would be sustainable, so that these people can stay there and live. Why the amendments and additions to the Refugees Act? The existing Refugees Act has hampered the resolution of the refugee problem in Serbia, i.e. a faster solution to the refugee problem in Serbia, because we have said that refugee in Serbia is taking a very long time. As the process of returning refugees to countries of origin flows slowly, i.e. its sustainability is still low, the state of Serbia must also take care of how in the most favourable way, the most qualitative way, to take care of refugees that remain in Serbia or want to remain permanent in Serbia. To address these problems, it takes three conditions: creating normative conditions, which we are doing by passing today's law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act; money, therefore, providing funds in the budget, and ultimately, the will of the countries from which refugees have gone, exiled, avoided, to return there, or to accept them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by passing today's law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, we create one of these three conditions, so we pass a law that normally, in a better way, regulates this area. The Democratic Party has always had a great understanding of the problem of refugees and the largest number of refugees, nearly 200,000, won citizenship during the time, while Dr Zoran Djindjic was headed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're determined to be a party now that's dealing with this problem. We are not a party that, when it comes to condemning a crime or solving the issues of people who are the result of these wars, when it comes to voting, we are restrained. We, when it comes to this law, will be a party who will vote for this law and solve refugee problems. We are not a party that, when this law is being debated, we are not even in the O.R., and the question is how will some of the opposition parties plead on this law in the day of the vote. What are the benefits of this law for people who have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in the meantime or who have yet to obtain it, and what benefits do refugees want to return to their former residence? First, refugees who have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia are gaining the right to participate in programmes of care that the Deputy Prime Minister has already spoken of. So, not only are people currently in refugee status, but also people who have received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia in the meantime, because we have agreed, I don't think there's any dispute about it, that by getting a ID card, the socio-economic status of these people doesn't change significantly. Secondly, this law, in addition to integration into the local environment, provides an opportunity to help people returning to the places they used to live. The previous law did not provide for the concern of the Commissioner, state, province or local self-government of persons wishing to return to their place of residence. These changes introduce equality in the decision – to stay in Serbia or to return to their place of escape. The law creates a normative condition for the final closure of 60 collective centres, as many remain in Serbia. To remind you, only four years ago in Serbia there were 700 collective centres, 11 times more. Conditions are being created for people who leave collective centres to be helped and the most important help, help in housing. In addition to refugees still in collective centres, this law provides a chance for people who have managed with friends, relatives, or possibly living as tenants in some unconditional areas, to live in an unorthodox place than those who have been in collective centres. This law will give them a chance to solve their existential problems. What is particularly important is that this law provides the possibility for refugees currently living in facilities built by donors, to buy them under favourable conditions and finally have their own roof over their heads. The funds obtained in this way through this ransom will be used to take care of the remaining refugees, and in this sense, this law is socially just and in spirit, in general, a policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Third, this law creates conditions for housing units built by the government of the Republic of Serbia, by the means of donors, due to the lack of clear legal provisions to date to be finally relocated. Some facilities have been empty for over 10 years. Unfortunately, we also have the fact that in just a few dozen meters or hundreds of meters of these uninhabited apartments live refugees in very unconditional conditions. There are such facilities in Bačka Topoli, Sr. Krstur, Indjija, Belgrade, Sombor, a total of 72 housing units are currently uninhabited, and a total of 71 housing units are illegally used. It's a total of 143 housing units that can accommodate as many families, or as many as 600 of their members, which means this way can be taken care of now from what we have, from the Fund, to take care of 600 families. We hope that this law will introduce order and that those who illegally use such spaces will have to leave them. According to Article 19b of this law, the eviction procedure is urgent and the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. This law also creates conditions for those refugees who reject any form of housing to lose their ability to care for their living. There have also been abuses of so far, in certain cases, collective care, or care, in collective centres. Fourthly, it is very important that the bill provides the possibility that, in addition to giving the state-owned immovable property to be used for a certain time or lease, with the possibility of buying, the allocation of funds to improve housing conditions, the purchase of building materials for the start of immovable property, also foresees the possibility of buying rural houses with a garden. In this way, the cheapest solution is to the housing needs of refugees, but also to create opportunities for the people interested in agriculture and livestock to be assigned a house with a garden. Their price is between six and seven thousand euros, often lower. In some ways, the collapse of Serbian villages will also be prevented. The Republic of Serbia has been making serious efforts over the past two years to help refugees and exiled persons. In the past 2009 alone, thanks to the activities of the Refugee Commissioner, the results have been very observed. The number of collective centres decreased by 19% and from 74 collective centres that existed in January 2009, there are currently 60 collective centres. Thanks to housing and economic empowerment programmes, 1,200 users of the Refugee Commissioner have left collective centres. Over the past year, the number of refugees in status has been reduced by 12.5%, i.e. From 97 to 86,000 evasive faces. In the course of 2009, the refugee commissioner allocated more than 160 million for the purchase of construction materials for the completion and adaptation of inadequate housing facilities, thus helping to provide housing for more than 600 families, with funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was built by donors during 2008 and 2009, 253 housing units were built, nearly a thousand packages of building materials for the construction and completion of residential construction were allocated, and 347 rural households were bought, all of which represent resolving the housing issue for 1,662 families, and if each family on average has four members, this means that it was taken care of for two years by the funds of the Republic of Serbia and donors of 6,648 people. In addition, 988 income projects were realised, which economically strengthened as many families and allowed them to start some independent business. Of course, there is no economic support for all 60 collective centres currently living in 4,803 evasive faces. This year construction was planned, someone asked the question, 795 housing units and 830 construction packages, purchases 133 rural households, as well as 441 income projects. The current Commissioner for Refugees, headed by Mr Vladimir Cucic, and the whole of the Republic government, is a great credit for these programmes. Unfortunately, the previous government of Mr Kostunica and the previous Commissioner did not pay any significant attention to this, and even previously built housing units were not inhabited. Why hasn't this law been passed so far? Before the world, and thanks to the previous government. Significant assistance to refugees and exiled and displaced persons also provides AP Vojvodina with 50% of all refugees, exiled in Serbia. Through the Fund for Aid to Refugees, Exorcised and Displaced Persons, about 5,000 people have been taken care of in two years. From 2007 to 2009, 214 rural houses were purchased, 399 packages of construction materials were allocated, 615 families were taken care of, with more than 3,000 members. There have also been 139 return packages each worth 1,500 euros to families returning to the Republic of Croatia, BiH or AP KIM. Mechanization aid has been granted to 33 return cooperatives, and it is not accurate that these tractors are not used. I responsibly argue that the tractors assigned by the province's Executive Council are used on purpose and that 700 cooperatives are thus assisted, who are involved in these return cooperatives. The funds for the scholarship of high school students from the most endangered refugee families were also invested. The programmes will continue as will the Government of Serbia's programmes this year. If we sum up data on the taken care of, through the Refugee Commissioner, we get to the number of 12,636 people, how long it's been permanently taken care of for the past two years. It's a very serious number. Let us not forget that the help of refugees was provided by certain local self-governments in the handling of municipal infrastructure. In Belgrade, for example, during the late Mayor Bogdanovic and during Mr. Gilas, but also numerous municipality leaders across Serbia, Vojvodina, such as Bac, Ruma, Shid, made a significant contribution to improving the conditions in which refugees live. And you notice that in all these local self-governments a significant role is played by DS. These projects by the Commissioners and the circuit institutions, especially because they were transparent in the realisation, deserve all praise. There have been no complaints concerning this mandate of the Commissioner for the allocation and transparency of the allocation of funds. Of course it must continue. Other problems, problems in return, colleagues spoke, above all, about the problem of returning to the Republic of Croatia. First of all, the significant problem is that of taking away tenant rights. Nearly 100,000 people cannot return to Croatia because their apartments have been taken away. Estimates go up to 40,000 apartments. The resolution of these issues is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, but, I would say, the obligation of the international community to insist as quickly as possible on solving the mentioned problems. Even the housing process, although inadequate substitute for housing law, runs very slowly. The other problem is the severance of the job. We believe that a full-scale and no time-limit, with a maximum simplified procedure, must be implemented. There's also a problem with outstanding pensions. Serbian pensioners ask nothing more than what belongs to other pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. A particular problem creates the restoration of property. Due to complicated procedures and certain obstructions, nearly 8,000 demands await in the second degree. Some requests have been made in the process for five years. There is a problem that is not mentioned today, no less important, 11,000 objects destroyed outside the war areas due to terrorist actions, therefore, outside the landscape, which so far do not have the right to rebuild. Then, the problem of participating in privatization of occupied agricultural land, especially in the Zadar area. The problem of manipulation with lists of war crimes indictees, the problem of missing, infrastructure restoration, especially, the restoration of schools, district schools where there is no possibility of education of children now, because they are simply devastated. The Republic of Serbia is taking over the president of the Republic, the government, interstate commissions to resolve these issues urgently. An Intergovernmental Inter-Governmental Conference dealing with these issues was held on Thursday, and we hope that the Republic of Croatia, this time, will be sincere in its intention to resolve the accumulated issues concerning the return of Serbian refugees and their property. It will be an effort by the DS to address the refugee problem in Serbia to devote all institutions, to speed up them. To create better conditions for the integration of refugees in Serbia through the implementation of the law, which we are adopting today, and for the international community to be involved in Serbia's integration. The Democratic Party will also advocate that refugees better exercise their acquired rights in the countries from which they have escaped. In the end, as an DS MP, I am pleased to have taken care of the refugees and the exiled parts of my party's programme. I am pleased that the DS participates in the normative arrangement of this area, which is what we build Serbia, not only as a modern, European state, but as a socially responsible country that takes care of refugees and exiled persons. The DS MPs will support this bill in voting day and vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38148	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38149	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to answer my questions right now, seeing as some people don't know anything. I'll explain briefly, without written reports, why this law wasn't passed. In the previous term, the Democratic Party of Serbia was in power with the Democratic Party. Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic, a member of your party. The law was in the process and could have been on the agenda. Ask, and you'll get an answer from Mr. Dulic. Furthermore, this law was made in April 2006. Since then, since April 2006, he has passed a complete procedure of government. He was not in front of the MPs that year, because the Constitution, sir, was adopted in November, at Mitrovica in 2006. All the laws were then legally withdrawn from the procedure. They had to get into compliance with the Constitution. They entered this alignment in 2007. In the fall of 2007, if you remember, it was already the technical government and the elections were in the spring of 2008. So much for why he wasn't brought in. It's interesting how city administrations help solve refugee status. For example, in the pioneer park in Belgrade, in Kosutnjak, there was a collective accommodation for refugees. Today there is Mr. Gilas, I don't remember if Mr. Bogdanovic, there is a Big Brother there today. It's a very good way to solve this issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38150	Thank you. There's no need for a replica. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, Forward Serbia, DSS, G17 plus, SRS and ZES. The first on the list is Mr. Jovan Nesovic who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38151	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have before us the amendments and additions to the Refugees Act and many of my colleagues, and Mr Dacic, as deputy prime minister, have today presented some of the information relating to this population that we are talking about today. I'm going to start with a few statistics that change every day, simply because this is a process that happens and I'm not saying that they're going to be 100% accurate. The Republic of Serbia today has the largest number of refugees and displaced persons in Europe. The 1996 refugee census in Serbia included over 540,000 refugees. That number was shrinking later. The 2001 census included about 370 - 380 thousand refugees. In 2001, about 104, and today there are estimated to be about 85,000 refugees in Serbia. What is also important to note is that around 300,000 people are refugees or persons who have received citizenship in the Republic of Serbia, so over two hundred people have gained citizenship in Serbia over the past 12 years. It should be said that out of 50,000 people who left their homes, who had refugee status, they found refuge in third countries, and about 140 to 150 thousand people returned to their hearths, therefore a return was made. It is very important that out of the total number of refugees living in Serbia today, 75% of them originates in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, while 25% originates in the BiH area. In order to speed up the return of these people to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of BiH as much as possible, it is good to hold international conferences, as it was a few days ago here in Belgrade, to discuss these problems, and it is good for certain countries to make certain commitments. We should always be aware that everything you take on at some official conferences is never completely fulfilled, but it's a very good thing that this is happening, and I'm sure that such international conferences can only help the processes that are related to refugees and can't be done. It should be said that in 1996 there were about seven hundred collective centres in Serbia. That's where about 70,000 people were taken care of, because in order to take care of those people, collective centres had to be opened. Later in government activities, local self-government activities, domestic and foreign donors, the number of collective centres decreased each year. The data suggests that there are now 60 to 60 in Serbia and some collective centre, and about four and a half thousand people living in those collective centres, but in these collective centres not only live refugees, about a thousand and a half people are refugees, and over three thousand are displaced persons who come from KIM. It is also important to specify that the state of Serbia has invested around 250m euros over the past 12 years, both in the integration of these people, i.e. for the needs of the Commissioner, for the purpose of resolving the social protection of these people and for the education of these people. It should be made clear that a large number of funds have been received from foreign donors, too, to provide accommodation for refugees, so that people leave collective centres and conditions that have not fully responded to life. However, we can be pleased that in the past, despite the economic crisis and all the problems facing the state, the number of collective centres has been reduced to 10% of the total number and I count that in the next few years more collective centres in Serbia will not be. It is important to say that in 2002 the government adopted a National Strategy for the closure of collective centres and that the National Strategy was tasked with coordinating the activities of both governments and domestic and foreign donors. It should be pointed out here that the solution to the housing needs of refugees has been resolved over the past several activities, which are: the construction of new buildings, the assignment of building materials to individual refugee families that have started building certain facilities, the purchase of rural households for the needs of these refugees and some other activities that are very important. It should be noted that there were several other things, our and foreign donors had their own activity, it was economic aid to refugees, or people who could and had the idea to start their business, simply, to get free funds, or grants, so that, in addition to people solving their living needs, they solved their existential needs, or they could start some business. When we talk about changes and additions to this law, in my opinion, it has some two wholes. The first continent refers to the tasks to be carried out by the Commissioner in the next period, and the second is to the housing of the refugees. In the first part, it is precisely defined in this law which are the competences of the Commissioner, what is the management of the Commissioner, how the financing of the activities of the Commissioners that are related to the avoidance of persons and, ultimately, how the control of the work of the Commissioner is carried out. The Refugees Act provides for what has been done so far, which is the issue of refugee legislation, keeping records of refugees, and when the status of these refugees ceases, and definitely in this law it is clear and highlighted. As for this second part, where there have been many more speeches, this law also deals with the integration of refugees, i.e. those persons on the territory of the Serbian state who want to stay here in Serbia. And the first step in their integration is to provide space for housing, living space, or housing security. The law defined in Article 19 that the provision of living space can be done in five ways, which is: by giving state property immovable property to be used for a certain time, by giving state property real estate to be leased for a certain time with the possibility of buying, by granting funds to improve housing conditions, by buying building materials for the start of building real estate and by buying a rural house with a garden. These are exactly the same, not to say the same activities carried out by the Commissioner in the past, along with donors and now, what was not in the law defined, is now absolutely accurate in the law, has become a legal norm. What is also important, where the difference should be made, is when the housing unit, or apartment, is built out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Here we can talk, the law defines it, about the lease and the purchase of that apartment, and if it's a donor project, so the donor funds have been made to build an object, then there's talk here on the express request of the donor about the use of that apartment, and that's one difference that's very well defined here in the law. The law also says what a minimum space it is for families to have, whether the family has one, two or more members, the law said – up to 30 square meters, as I understood it, for one or two members. I think whoever wrote the law really took care of it. We can discuss whether this space is small, whether it should be at least 30 square meters, so I expect that, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposing, the MPs will come up with the best and most profitable solution. When an apartment, i.e. living space is leased, simply, the contract is signed between the Commissioner and whoever is going to use the apartment and another possibility has been given, because so far in the programmes implemented by donor projects there were signatories of these projects were local self-governments, and it is possible to sign an apartment contract between local self-government and that person who will use the apartment, and local self-government is also given the possibility that they can transfer it to the Commissioner. I don't think there's anything controversial here, it's a matter of co-operation between local self-government and the Commissioner. The very good thing is that the law defines what the cost of renting that living space is, something that has been discussed so far at the link between local self-government, social work centres, the Commissioner and everyone else involved in this process. At this point, a very good thing is that it's defined by law. So, simply, no more free interpretations, it's a legal norm. And when the contracts are defined, and the contracts will cost the rent, it'll be much simpler than it's ever been before. The special chapter is that after renting this apartment, i.e. living space, under very favourable conditions, can be purchased. The promoter says the price decreases 50% at the beginning, where the basic value is the value that has been assessed by the tax administration for paying taxes on property and there are opportunities for even more favourable conditions for buying these apartments, if the family has a disabled face, if the family has lost someone in the war or if it has died due to these war acts, so that those reliefs cannot be greater than 90%, which I think is very good. As far as buying houses with gardens, which are also intended to address refugee housing needs, it is clearly defined that half the value of this is paid over a period of five years. I think the government has made a very good assessment of the possibility given to the Commissioner that, together with local self-governments, he can make a decision to pay even less than 50% if it's in coordination with local population policy. We have today, especially in rural areas, a large number of abandoned houses. There are no people living there. If local self-government needs to move people into that space who want to live there and if the refugee population wants to deal with agriculture, then I don't see any reason not to. Because the price of these facilities is not high and it is good that it is built in, that this population policy led by local self-government, the Commissioner will have the understanding that this price that needs to be defined can be reduced. It is quite similar if a person, or family, gets construction material to complete a building or build a building, and half the value of it is paid off for five years and I think it is possible to do so. What's very good, and we can discuss it a little bit, is that all the means of vomiting that comes from the purchase of these housing units, the gardens or that material used for the completion of the facilities are paid at the expense of the Commissioner and used for the purpose of building housing, for other refugees. We can talk about whether this is the best solution. Personally, I think you should think here that some of the funds get local self-government. Why am I saying that part of the funds should be given to local self-government? Because my experience is, at least from the city where I come from, and that's Kraljevo, where it's been made, I think, over the past few years, over several organisations of HABITAT, "SDC", "HELP", about 140 housing units, where people have moved in and that so far a number of collective centres have been evicted that were located in the Matarusca Banja area. Local self-government has invested significant resources for infrastructure equipment of these facilities. As the local self-government gave up compensation for the construction of the city's building land, they were also obliged to provide water, sewerage, consumption of electricity, edit of the area around the buildings in contract with the donor. Indeed, significant funds are invested in infrastructure equipment of these locations. It seems to me that, at this point in time, both these local self-government and more refugees have needs, I am absolutely sure, that they are building new apartments in order to integrate these people, so I think it makes sense that one part of the funds went towards local self-government, and that these funds are used to build these local infrastructures for these new housing units. Indeed, I expect the Commissioner and the Government to have understanding and to help local self-government in the area of infrastructure equipment, especially small local self-government, from these funds collected from the purchase of these housing units. Because I'm sure some local self-governments especially at the time of this economic crisis, have liquid liquidity and have no money in the budget for such investments, so I think that the problem should be taken into account. The second thing to be taken into account in the next period is the consent of this law and the Social Housing Act, that the Social Housing Act predicted that a national social housing strategy should be done. It is people who belong to a group of socially endangered families and the Commissioner will deal with these affairs in the coming period, which are internally displaced persons from Kosovo. I am absolutely sure that all those faces cannot return to Kosovo to live, because there are some places that are completely insecure and that those persons will also need to implement integration, or remain in the areas where they are now. And surely for that population, people will have to provide similar conditions, such as these conditions for the avoided population. I think the next period should make sure that the conditions for these people are the same as the conditions for this population, refugees, because I believe that justice will be met. Looking at the whole process of this law, I think the law is good, that it will help refugees to integrate, to gain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. The G17 Group of MPs plus in the voting day will support this law, and I call on other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38152	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, this is a law long awaited. We were lucky that he was like, with little changes, in fact, still in 2005, designed in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and that by some accident again, here, it waited four or five years for him to be in parliament. It should not have waited this long with such an important law, as the period in which refugees live in Serbia is very long and very burdensome for both themselves and Serbian citizens. Serbs are a people of centuries-old villages and eternal integration. The last historic Serb refugee in the largest number took place in the last decade of last century and the suffering and tragedies of this historic exile and the destruction of a nation extended to the day of today. It is not comforting at all, although it can be interesting and instructive to follow all the ways in which the idea of community was disintegrated, with unselfish help and active participation of foreign forces that eventually brought us together in the form of Yugoslavia, the origin of the panslavist idea, the challenge shared again, with the help of the same foreign forces, was not intended to go as a mission of light notes. It was approached by bloody disunity in the last political and linguistic prank. It was a historic moment for this historic and linguistic prank to be recognized and instead of disseminating to advocate the decamadisation of Yugoslavia, above all in the name of life and survival in these areas. But those wisdom at that moment and possibly political strength and will, neither in Yugoslavia nor beyond, were there. Two mystifications have been imposed. One, that Yugoslavia cannot fall apart as a normal state, but created in passion with the same acuity must and fall apart, and it is known that where there is a lot of passion there is always a little wisdom. The second, to constantly falsify or simulate the resistance to decay and war-armed conflicts, to prevent it, at the cost of victims greater than Yugoslavia itself was at that moment. He deliberately cherished the axiom that there were no other forms of communication other than love and hate. The division policy became the only consistency and the only successful action by the outgoing communist heritage and then geopolitical strategy of the world. But Serbs in Serbia brotherly received exiled Serbs, exiled, expelled, all those who had to leave overnight where they existed for centuries. On the Christian principle that the house is never so small and so tight that it cannot accept the one who has lost it and that our bread is never so small that it cannot be shared with those who are not there, the state was definitely not prepared at that time, which state, and when it is, that at the same time, it is at war where it is not at war and that the care of those who are unhappy with this same war, who are left without everything, packing their whole lives, all their working life, all their memories, all their emotions and property in a nylon bag for one use. Artistic photographs and videos of these columns went around the world, and faces from these photos remained in deep anonymity in their despair and misfortune, fighting together with us to reduce this disaster and that despair, overcome and eventually eliminate from everyday life. I think this law is one of the ways to make it really serious and put an end to such a big problem. The people of Serbia, however, are still with the state, often up to such a great historic task, showed their morals and their humanity and its consistency and its adolescence to be ready for this moment to be amortised and presented. Because when we look at personal and collective trauma, followed by refugees, we see that these are lifeless and materially debilitated people, with extra unproductive time, where there is a feeling of depression, helplessness, depravity, combined very often with a sense of social unacceptability. Then we come up with a psychological portrait of people with this status, especially those who are housed in collective accommodations, that these are people who are plagued by the feeling that they have lost the right to personal intimacy and a natural family organization. This law should regulate the responsibility of the state, in no way dehumanise the relationship with those whom we are the last haven and residence. This law should mobilise the entire government, and at least a few ministries. I think that here we mentioned ministers and vice-presidents of the government, and certainly, with Minister Dacic here, to be present, to follow the debate on this law and to contribute to the adoption of the amendments, so that this law could permanently solve the problem of refugee. This law will not end the main problem that plagues most refugees in these areas, but this law should be an incentive for a serious, diplomatic offensive towards the countries of ex-Yugoslavia, above all, towards Croatia. So that this diplomatic offensive, both in the countries themselves and in relation to the European countries, puts pressure on them that all the assets of the refugees and the exiled persons and all their human rights in those areas can be realised, and above all, that the property is adequately returned to them, the compensation, that they may be compensated so that they can begin life elsewhere and include in that life their work experience and their acquisitions that are certainly unjustly captured in those areas. When we look at this law, then we know that we can also realize that it may not have been done enough with it, and which law could at all be done enough to erase one of these huge historical injustices against the Corps of People counting on these premises for almost a million, but we should never give up legally, as a state, to settle this issue, to make their lives truly fairer to themselves and to make ourselves better in the frameworks in which the law requires it. Of course, in any case, our conscience and consciousness. We have already found here that we are a country with a very long refugee crisis and I think few countries, if there are at all, with the experience that Serbia has, that on its own population and its material status, economic status, have endured this kind of attack by refugees, as Serbia has received. I'll just give you an example of the city, the community I come from. The Sombor municipality of 100,000 people received 25,000 refugees, some 20,000 of which were permanently inhabited. So, that blow from 1990 to nearly 2000, which arrived in the waves in the Republic of Serbia, in the largest number has been amortised by Vojvodina. What we can say, taught by example, that all emotions fade, get tired and stop, and when they get tired and stop, then we have to solve this status and this situation legally, administratively and justly. The status of refugees has been resolved here for too long, first of all, by engaging and manipulating the emotions of citizens, and in the context of the modest economic opportunities of the state itself or very often with serious abuses, first of all, by political powers and by all those who have come into contact with various donors and various means that have been allocated to this purpose, so of course we expect that in some future time all those who have dealt with these issues will be considered and reassessed. So, once and for all, to shed light on this manipulation, that those who have abused and used it will once face justice. I expect, of course, that with hearing, with a good understanding of this problem and with good will the ministers will accept all the quality amendments to fix the law, on behalf of Serbian citizens, that the exhaustion of Serbian citizens does not continue, because time must no longer take place waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38154	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word has a folk letter from Miss Natasa Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we talk about this law, about the proposal to amend and supplement the Refugees' Law, we actually have an opportunity to talk to refugees as well as about specific and permanent victims of wars, violence and all that has happened in the 1990s, starting with conflicts in Croatia and BiH. It has been almost twenty years since the first refugees from former Yugoslavia came to Serbia. The moment we passed the first Refugee Law in 1992, there were already 160,000 refugees in Serbia. Was Serbia ready to receive so many people? Of course not. I don't think there's a country in the world that would be able to say that she's ready to face such a big problem. But since then, circumstances have changed, priorities have changed in what was needed to support refugees, and our understanding of the refugee problem has changed. At first neither we nor the refugees understood the difficult situation they were in. International standards define the concept of refugees as someone who's involved in war acts, etc. I found out of my country's territory. They weren't out of their country at that time, but we didn't understand either that the definition of what their country had actually changed. Many of us only then learned that our citizenships were not federal but that they were republican and we were unable to know what problems would arise from that fact. We remember probably all the big debates about whether and how we should accept the possibility of refugees getting Serbian citizenship. These were debates in 1996 and 1997 in the adoption of the then law on citizenship. Then came the dilemma about whether the advantage should be given to integration, local integration or refugee returns. This issue was highly politicised between political parties, between different options and rather manipulated by the issue. Of course, reality, real problems and finding solutions taught us that these two processes are not conflicted, but complementary and that only the personal existential situations of each refugee individually and each family that has escaped decide on which process someone will define. This law, of course, aims to contribute to a real solution to the problems we face in the refugee integration process. Someone says it's a very long process, 18-20 years already. Of course, we couldn't even solve this process ourselves. We must be honest and say that without the help of the international community and a huge programme of support in solving the housing problems of refugees, Serbia itself could not solve because of the many economic problems it has faced. This law comes from realizing the need to respond to new priorities in solving the refugee problem. It is certain that the 1992 Law primarily had to deal with the issue of care, emergency resolution of refugee status, and emergency provision of assistance to refugees. Now we're at the level of other problems and other priorities. Therefore, the permanent resolution of refugee status in Serbia is a topic and a problem dealing with the law. Of course it's a shame it wasn't brought sooner, but it's better than never. What is one of the main issues that this law deals with is the problem of solving the housing problem faced by refugees. The national strategy, which we adopted in 2002, provides for the need to reduce, or abolish, collective centres, and we have to say that there has been significant progress in this regard, i.e. around 700 collective centres in 1995, and in 2009, 74. A significant contribution to the closure of collective centres has been made by international donors' programmes. These were various forms of accommodation in newly built immovableities, assignments of construction material, self-building, buying rural houses with gardens. All the real estates used by refugees in this way are state property, but more than 85% of the value of these immovableities comes from foreign aid funds and it is explicitly the will of donors to be transferred to refugees under favourable conditions. The bill currently envisions resolving the problem and provides for mechanisms to address the issue. The proposal does not affect already recognised statuses, but limits the possibility of gaining new refugee status, as asylum seekers in Serbia will be subject to asylum regulations. The law also introduces a new definition of a person, which has been defined for integration, linking it to applying for Serbia's citizenship. When we talk about the problem of return, we all know that the biggest problem of returning refugees is solving housing claims to recover property in places where refugees came from. There is, of course, the biggest problem of refugees in Croatia. Sarajevo's 2005 declaration, BiH, Croatia, Montenegro has pledged to enable any return of refugees and local integration. The problem of regaining housing rights is a continuing issue in relations with Croatia. It is important that our public knows that this issue is in constant focus and international organisations, and at the last meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in January of this year, was on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Declaration on the need to regain the property of refugees and all tenants' rights was adopted on that occasion. What our delegation particularly insisted on in Strasbourg, with representatives of the Serb minority in Croatia, is that this issue must be resolved independently of whether someone is defined for return or integration in Serbia. Therefore, the return of property and return of rent rights must not be restricted – only in those cases where refugees opted to return to Croatia. In this sense, it should be said that this Council of Europe resolution defines restitution as a basic mechanism for resolving this issue, and compensation, only as a secondary way to address this problem. It is also important, and it is a problem in Croatia, which we must insist on is – that the procedure for the exercise of these rights must be transparent, fast and efficient so that all requests submitted must be resolved in a much more efficient manner. It's very important when we talk about the refugee process that we don't just focus on numbers. Some of you talked about it today. Of course, the figures show us statistics, show us trends, show us in which direction our policy in solving the refugee problem should move. The real life of refugees is, however, what we should pay attention to and with a special empathy, we seek with special compassion to enjoy the problems of the refugee population in Serbia. Someone who's been out of control for 20 years, beyond the possibility of providing their children with any perspective, is something that's terrible. They say sociologists that true poverty is invisible, because those who are truly poor are the people who have raised their hands from every solution to their situation, or that they do not believe that help from any side is possible and that nothing should be asked of anyone, because it is not worth asking for, that change is not possible. How is it only then terrible refugee poverty? So the process of resolving the refugee issue will certainly take some more time in the Western Balkans, but it is a condition of real reconciliation between the peoples and states in the Balkans. In this regard, Serbia must also be more active in asking for refugee rights to be exercised on the basis of international standards and international standards in all other Western Balkan countries. We have no right to leave this problem time and this law, in my deep confidence, contributes at least to bringing at Serbia's level the refugee integration process into the local environment almost to an end. In that sense, the DS will, of course, vote in favour of this law, so we invite all MPs to join in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38156	Thank you. The word has Dr Nikola Lazic, and after him to prepare Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go, Mr. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we'll all agree at first that resolving the refugee issue is not only humanitarian, but a couple of excellencies and political issues. For Serbia, the issue is of particular importance, especially when it comes to the fact that we as a state are actually the most burdensome country in Europe when it comes to the number of refugees. Of course, I'm not going to talk today about policies or policies that have led to this situation, but I'm going to look back at the law itself and the implications of these people's lives. They were caused by trouble and a direct threat to life to leave their homes, often without anything. Of course, they have come into a situation of goodwill, on the one hand, the opportunities of the society that has received them, as well as the solidarity in that society itself, in order to provide the essential needs necessary for even a dignified life. On the other hand, this unresolved issue is affecting the state itself and burdening its functioning. If by chance they were born a century later Nikola Tesla, for example, or Milutin Milankovic, they might be refugees today. These two names I purposely mentioned because I wanted to illustrate how human suffering, as a term, is universal and that it does not apply to some nameless people only, but each of these people has a specific name, last name, their biography. All of this requires permanent and comprehensive resolution of the refugee issue. It is possible to do it in two ways – through their return, so-called. repatriation or through their integration here in Serbia. Both are processes, which means they last and, of course, means that the Serbian government cannot deal with only one term of the issue, but it is necessary to deal with this issue continuously. I don't mention here, as the modeality of solving this issue, the departure of refugees to third countries, because we as a state don't really have relevant data as to how many of these people have gone. Serbia, as a country in the period behind us, has done a lot for refugees, i.e. resolving the refugee issue, although it could have been more and better. I think one of the key things is the need for our country to insist on a trilateral mode of resolving the refugee issue, i.e. by based on the Sarajevo Declaration or so on. The Sarajevo process. This should be insisted on all talks on this issue. Certain issues can be resolved on a bilateral basis, but I think key issues must still be resolved on the basis of the Sarajevo process. When it comes to returning certain results, there must be, but a lot that doesn't work. The most drastic example is the return of household rights to Croatia, where people, if they were forced to leave their homes, lost that rent right after six months and the possibility of returning to their homes. It must be noted that there has been a lack of pressure from the international community, unlike BiH, where the issue has been resolved in such a way that the issue of housing law is practically equal to ownership. I think it is realistic to estimate that such cases in Croatia concerning the return of housing rights have about 30,000. Many of the data that are being processed for return are overrated in Croatia and are related to housing, not to the return of housing rights in this republic. Also, in addition to property-law issues, the obstacle to the return and free movement of people is also the existence of secret lists and secret indictments. As long as they exist, they represent a significant psychological barrier and slow down the process. These are serious questions that need to be discussed. We have just heard that one of the focus of our parliamentary diplomacy is in that direction, and I think that is good, but I think that representatives of the executive authority in each of their contacts with representatives of neighbouring republics, especially Croatia, must potentiate this issue, because without a solution to this issue there is neither regional stability nor good neighbourly relations. This once again confirms that the issue of refugees is actually a political issue, as this is, among other things, the issue of the affirmation of minority rights of Serbs in Croatia, which can be mentioned in regional talks. As for Serbia's own integration, thousands of housing units have been built, mainly out of assistance from the international community, so foreign donations. The most stable situation with regard to solving refugee problems was during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when a proposal was made to amend and supplement the law on the agenda today, however, with minor changes. Otherwise, this legislative proposal was to come to the agenda in 2006, as has already been said, but due to the whole process, the adoption of the Constitution, has been withdrawn, as have many other legislative proposals and only now come to the agenda. Of course, we welcome what is being debated about him today. The basic intensity of this law is to introduce positive discrimination in the integration of refugees, allowing them to permanently resolve their housing issues, so that they live in their apartments and not to solve this issue through social housing, i.e. staying in collective centres. The idea is that money obtained from the purchases of these apartments in which they live forms part of the fund for further construction for people who are not covered by the programmes so far. Although that money will certainly not be crucial and would be only part of the fund, the idea of solidarity is important, because this is a matter for everyone. This is the first step in the whole integration process, and it is necessary to work on other important issues for the lives and survival of these people later. Otherwise, the legislative proposal was also necessary to enable the Time Commissioner for Refugees to provide a favourable loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in order to build housing. The interventions the DSS has in this law concern defining the way refugees living in their apartments can become their owners. The bill states in Article 18 that they have the possibility of buying these apartments. The DSS amendment requires that the word "purchasing" be replaced by the word "purchasing", because buying in a Semantic sense can be interpreted as a kind of commercial term, while the term "purchasing" has been used when it comes to social and state-owned housing, which, by the way, has also been resolved by most of Serbia's population. Also, the DSS in Article 19. The bill suggests that the total reduction for the purchase of the apartment can be up to 70%, instead of the projected 90%. This is the reason for the necessary solidarity and increase of the Refugee Housing Fund, which did not have the opportunity to solve this problem. In this regard, I would ask Mr. Minister a question and ask him to answer that, with an estimate, what number of apartments are predicted to be built from that fund and how much funds are currently in that housing fund? Finally, like many other speakers before me, I would like to express my surprise as to why the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Krkobic, is not present today to represent this law, especially since there is a particularly busy adviser who deals with refugee issues? That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38158	Thank you. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go, Mr. Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Vice-President of the Government, the honourable representatives of the Commissioner for Refugees, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MP of the DS, I express my satisfaction that the innovations of the Refugees Act were in front of this House. As representatives of citizens, we must show concern and take care of this category of our fellow citizens, because this issue is not only about altruism, humanity, this is also about the human rights corps. And this is our constitutional and human obligation, that refugees who are our fellow citizens, whether they are in the formal and legal status of refugees, whether they are integrated through admission to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, we solve and solve in one way as best possible. I expect that by adopting these amendments to the Law, there will be one very concrete affirmative social action, including both the activities and the Commissioner for Refugees and State and Local Self-Government and Donors, both domestic and foreign, and other social entities to improve the quality of life of people, and it is hundreds of thousands of people who have found refuge in their mother, in the Republic of Serbia because of the wars on the premises of the former SFRY. What is important to point out is that the amendments to this law do not go into already recognised status under the provisions of the existing Law, while on the other hand restricting the possibility of obtaining a new status, but that this is being resolved by the asylum law. In the opening statement of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr Dacic, we have heard the movement, the nominal dynamics of refugees, from the beginning of the 1990s to the present, and we believe that this number of 300,000 people who are refugees or have gained citizenship are relevant and are thus going into the process of integration into Serbian society, i.e. integration into the social flows of the Republic of Serbia. Integration, in fact, is a key word when we talk about amendments to this law. But what's important to say, here integration isn't one flossula, it's so specific, so life-threatening through the provisions of this law that it allows the most endangered categories or subcategories in the refugee Corps to solve their specific issues. As a MP before, as a committee member in the local self-government, I have often had contacts with the refugee association, I have visited collective centres and indeed, what my colleague Natasa Vuckovic said, we must do to replace the apathy, indifference and feeling of one hopelessness, and I think that we have done enough and done enough, in these people, to replace one state of social acceptance and the state of new optimism and a new beginning. This law is in some way accompanied by relevant documents both national and international, first of all, the National Strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2002, the National Strategy for resolving the issues of refugees, displaced and internally displaced persons, as well as the relevant documents of the Council of Europe which have already been discussed by colleagues. What is characteristic of this process of resolving the first-place refugee issue is one indisputable fact that most of the funds are provided by donors, domestic and foreign, but in the first place by foreign donors. Their legitimate insistence, I'm talking about donors, those who have provided and provided funds to solve refugee issues, first of all housing issues, so their legitimate insistence is that the right of property on immovable property, resulting from their money donations, is transferred from state property to private property of this category of refugees. There's also this law on that course, that is, this norm. Someone resented the debate, I don't know exactly who the fellow MPs are, that he's outsmarted this law, or I think he compared the law to some rule about living relations. I can't accept such a court at all, both legal and valuable. I think that the very quality of this law, first of all, which defines the forms of settlement of housing issues, whether through the use of immovable property, whether through purchase, whether through purchase of housing units, and nothing less is important, buying houses with a garden, therefore, one property that will enable certain economic activity, therefore, the house with a garden also enables economic, first of all, agricultural activity that these people will be able to celebrate and make a certain income. Also, giving favourable housing loans to this category is very important and we welcome it. As for the use of immovable property, the law also provides for the use of certain time, and the lease of real estate for a certain time, whether they are housing units, whether they are apartments in residential buildings, whether they are individual housing buildings. The ransom is also an extremely important vision of resolving issues, buying construction material, too, to build or complete the home units that have been launched. All of these are strictly standardised ways of addressing the housing needs of people who are in the refugee category, and in this way I believe that we are contributing to their full integration. So there is no integration if these people have an unresolved and residential issue, if they are burdened with other problems, let's say, health, social and other types of protection. That is why I believe that this law is of great quality, not only in a normative sense, it is a quality that its implementation will be very, hopefully, effective, very fast and that in this way we will contribute to that of our fellow citizens, and it is a large number of people, that we will manage to solve existential life problems and start a new life in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party, therefore, welcomes and supports such legal nouns and we expect the opposition to vote for the law as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38160	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38161	Dear Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but, above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, with a lot of attention, but, above all, with a lot of respect and understanding, we need to approach this debate today. When I say with a lot of respect, I mean, first of all, respecting the needs of all people who have refugee status in Serbia, but we must also respect the real possibilities of the Serbian state, what it is that the state of Serbia can afford our fellow refugees. Also, when we talk about this law today, we have to remind ourselves that in Serbia there is a need for a feeling among citizens, which has been lost somewhere in the years of the crisis. We don't have compassion for the people who are victims of war, who have become refugees, who have left their hometown, their homeland, who only in two hours had to be on a tractor trailer to load their entire lives and come to an unknown city, among unknown people. When I came to the meeting of the Serbian Parliament today, I met in front of a citizen's parliament building and he asked me "what are you discussing today? "I tell him that today we are discussing the Law on Refugees, and the man says to me, "Why did they sell everything, they live well, they have everything, argue a little about us. "That's the lack of that feeling of nobility and compassion with the victims. There are a lot of people I know, who are my friends, I have family, godfathers, relatives, friends who came to Serbia from Knin, from Bania, from Glamoc, Livna, from Kosovo, and I know very well what problems these people face in everyday life. The World Refugee Day is marked on June 20th. Somehow, the entire state of June 20th visits these people who have refugee status, goes to these collective centres or places where they are housed, and I've had many opportunities to go with these people to talk. The town of Kruševac was a city that received several tens of thousands of our fellow citizens, our brothers displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, who fled from terrorism after NATO aggression in 1999. I know exactly what these people tell me when I go to visit them and I know very well the problems these people face. While I was listening to some of my colleagues in this room today, I noticed a strange trend, I noticed the tendency that responsibility for everything that's going on in this country, everything that's a problem, everything that's a difficulty, that this burden is loaded on DS's shoulders, which is in power and say, "you're responsible for everything, you're socially responsible government, which in two years' time you didn't pass that law? "Then they justify themselves," we passed the law in 2005, but the evil Oliver Dulic did not want to put it on the agenda. Wait, I'm not suffering from amnesia, sclerosis is a wonderful disease, you hear something new every day, but nothing hurts, but I really don't have sclerosis or amnesia, and I know who was in power in 2005 in this country, and I know that you may have had the will and will to pass this law, but you may not have had the courage. Perhaps some of the refugee categories served only as a number for the procedure, perhaps some categories of refugees served only as a way to cry bitterly over Serbia's sad fate and say "we created this law in 2005". You know, Leonardo da Vinci invented a helicopter in 1495, but until Igor Sikorski arrived in 1939 to implement that idea into action, it would just be a sad drawing on paper and nothing else. We took responsibility to see problems, to face them, to declare these laws, to bring them in. When I listen to some bitter tears pour over the fates of refugees, and then they still want to be, I just don't know what they want to be, whether ironic, cynical, funny, sarcastic, so they say someone in this country will apologize for the flash and the storm, I'm sure they're neither sarcastic, nor funny, nor fun, but I'm sure they're unhappy, both in this tall home and in Negotina, and in the Arangelovac, and in other places where they don't cross the censorship and where they fight for the same. Speaking of refugees, would refugees be better off if I reminded them now of the sad fate and chronology and at all of the sad beginnings of getting to know the term 'em' refugees' in Serbia and reminding them of an even sadder period of someone's authority? They won't be better off if we bring this debate down to debate between us and fighting who's guilty of not having this law passed. We are a socially responsible government, and we understand the problems of refugees, and we are passing this law, not to be liked, to be liked, but to solve the problems of the people who have refugee status in this country. These people aren't numbers. These people have their sad fates. I'll read you what people told me when I was getting ready for this debate, when I went to the refugees, "The Refugee, you know how ugly that sounds. It's a tragedy! I've got this book, a piece of paper, which is both my personal and my health book. I haven't voted in 19 years, and a man without a voice is not a man. ''That's what a man said by a tenant of a former collective centre in Serbia from Croatia. The state of Serbia signed the Soviet Declaration in 2005. We expect the provisions of that declaration to apply to all signatories of that declaration. We are aware of the problems that citizens living here as refugees face when they return to their homeland, but it is not only a problem to give people status, health book or ID card and tell – the problem is solved. The problem of refugees is the problem of poverty, the problem of refugees is unemployment, the problem of refugees is not only Serbia, but many countries in our environment, but the fact that Serbia has the largest number of refugees in Europe, and that by the number of refugees in the world is thirteen. A huge bureaucratic apparatus lived at the expense of evasive people at one point. I was present at some seminars when coffee and juice were spent much more than could be spent on solving even the fate of a family for that day, I was present at many consultations on refugees where I didn't realize what was being said, not during the term of office of this government, it doesn't matter when it happened. The important thing is that refugees should not be treated as people who have come here with unfortunate circumstances and found refuge and now represent a number, but really have to be treated as humans, human beings. The DS will never fear responsibility and the number of refugees. We will never return the mandate to the people, so we will say: the problems are difficult, the difficulties are enormous, the challenges are great, the temptations are incredible, our weak shoulders cannot endure it, here, we are afraid, so we return the mandate to the people. No, we'll go meet up with problems, solve problems. When we solve these problems, we solve them by keeping in mind the life of that common man. Will he be better after this law? It certainly will. Is this law the greatest range in solving refugee problems? It's not. Will refugees be better off if I return this debate to a reminder of what some previous governments have not done? They won't be any better or any easier. Will they be better off after bringing yesterday's magnificent Declaration, which some say is shameful? They will, because we place ourselves in the order of civilized people, as we today place refugee care in the order of people who care not only about the dead, but also about the living. At the end of this debate, I noticed that some of my opposition colleagues were disturbed by the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, as the legislator of this law. I must tell you, Mr. Dacic doesn't arrest, especially not the MPs, and there's no need to be afraid of him. If you're worried if the police will do their job while he's here, they will, we've also shown it by acting Morava and other police actions. There's no need to fear if the police are doing their job today. He's doing great, believe me. If you do not believe, visit Central Prison, you have the right as opposition MPs, as MPs. Mr. Dacic, while you and I were MPs in this room, I remember once when I couldn't see the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister in the Assembly Hall ever. I wanted to ask him a few questions, but I didn't get a chance. Here you have the opportunity to see all the ministers, all the vice-presidents of the government, and there is no need to be afraid, I underline to you, Mr Dacic does not arrest the MPs, nor does he intend to arrest the MPs, nor do you have the right to rebel against what he is here or to grieve that there is no Mr Krkobiæ. The state of Serbia also works when ministers are at their posts and when they are in cabinets and when they are in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38162	Please don't throw it away. Quiet. Let the MP finish. Go on, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38163	I don't understand, sir, did you really hear me say that someone was going to arrest refugees? I'm telling you, we're gonna solve our refugee problems. For us... (I address you, I don't know who you are, since you haven't introduced yourself here who you are and what you are) ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will solve the problem of refugees the way this law predicted. We'll apply that law and vote for it. I expect those who swear to write it in 2005 to vote for the law, but they will not show us who held them and prevented them from voting. Show me, please, who's the one in the DS who held your hand to vote that law. Who is it that prevented you from saying – here, for us refugees are not the number we show in the election campaign, for us refugees are human and human beings? Be compassionate, show nobility, vote for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38164	Replica, Mr. Dragan Šormaz and Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Shormaz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38165	I really don't know what it's got to do with arresting MPs with refugees and this bill. I think you should have reacted. The man's talking about arresting the MPs. What does that have to do with each other?- I'm sorry. Don't worry. I would ask Mr Dacic not to arrest everything – do not arrest these tycoons spoken of these days, because they are the only wealth left in this country, beside you, as you are, as executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38166	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go. So will you? [[Milica Vojić-Markovic, from the place: Sorry, replica.]] Here you go. I realized that you signed up after you were next. Just a moment, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I think Mr. Shormaz reacted. You weren't mentioned personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38167	I'm an authorised representative of the group. Mr. Messenger spoke and spoke to me, looking at me based on everything I've said. I think I'm entitled to a replica. Come on, some MPs don't understand the difference between what a refugee is and what a displaced person is. Except that they do not understand and feel that they should not speak, they do not listen to what I have said and respond to it. The law was made in the government of Vojislav Kostunica in April 2006, not in 2005, as the MP said. By the way, I didn't start bidding on who made the law and who didn't make it and who didn't bring it. The DS speaker started that story, I was just trying to explain to him why he said something that didn't exist. Third thing, it's not just our views that are different, Mr. MP. For us from the DSS, what Leonardo drew is not a sad drawing, but a brilliant drawing, but our range is also different with perspectives. There's a law that says it, but it overwrites it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38168	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. I'd really like to ask you to bring the replicas to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38169	First, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, I'm talking to you now, and I don't know if you have any coalition partners anymore, or if you don't, or whether you're working with them or not, but don't just listen to us but listen to those you've been with in the coalition. If you're not anymore, if they've moved to the forwards, watch where you're going and what you're going to do, but I had in mind a discussion here from your predecessors, from your former coalition. I'm sorry, I'm glad you've informed the public that you're no longer in the coalition now, since I see you're giving up their statements. When it comes to lawmaking, it is not only necessary to pass the law, write it down or copy it. One government, the effect of one government and the effect of one parliament is not measured by how many laws have been passed, but by how much these laws have been brought into practice. It is not only measured by goodwill, dreams and ambitions of individuals or fears of those same individuals, but rather by the quality of the law that is passed here by improving the quality of the lives of ordinary people to which the law applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38170	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, let this be the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38171	I don't mind, since I've been called directly by a gentleman, I'll answer him. As far as Parliament's effect is concerned, and as far as I'm concerned, with whom the DSS in the coalition, with whom it was, don't, please put me in the mouth for what I said. I made it very clear, since you taxed everything I said, that's what you answered, and that's what I responded to. Let the other speakers answer for what you said to them. On the other hand, about the effect of parliament, do not, please, thank God and I am proud that at the time when the government was Vojislav Kostunica, this was a democratic parliament. It discussed the laws, Mr. Milivoevich, you were here. Also, I need to remind you of the number of laws brought here. This is where the declarations were not revoted, this was indeed a democratic parliament. What we're doing now, and it's called the amount of laws that are passed by having 100 points on the agenda today and talking about them in a package of 50, can't be called either the effect or parliament! And what you said about the quality of life that comes from these laws best shows that you have fully fulfilled your promise of 200,000 jobs. Two hundred thousand people lost their jobs during this government! Thank you. The emissaries are getting from the bench: That's right, Milice! Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38172	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38173	Mrs. Milice, you didn't get that promise right -- they're gonna fire 500 grand and then 200 grand to hire and they're gonna keep the promise, but good. I would now have to say for the public that on 1 April 1992, the Refugees Act was passed and that a stenogram from that session was found in The Hague tribunal as evidence, accusing material against Vojislav Seselj. On the 30th and some pages of that record, there's who said what he was saying, where he was in positions, and, behold, when Micunovic heard that I was supposed to talk, he ran away from the gym. But now it wouldn't be cultural to talk about people who are away. I have to work for the public, and first of all, I'm talking to the public, because here is the principle of 126 absolute principles, and I can't change that. The citizens realized that my smallness wasn't stronger than 126 and it shouldn't be stronger. But I have to warn the public that some things in the light of this bill don't fit. First, refugee in the Republic of Serbia, the SRJ, etc., is not the result of the collapse of the former SFRY but of the break-up of the former SFRY. If you say, Mr. Dacic -- "debt," then you've accepted the position of the Badenter Commission, and you know for yourself, that for 20 years, maybe not 20 years, we've been fighting to prove that Badenter's commission's position is wrong. That's the first thing. Someone put this in for you. The word "house" and "execution" are two different concepts. I don't know why you put the term "azila" in one sentence, on page 14, because, after all, "azil" is one individual category, but good. For the sake of the public, I have to say, on April 1, 1992, when this law was passed, there were approximately 160 and some thousands of refugees registered. In 1996, in June, following the Dayton Agreement, a census was made, with 537 thousand refugees in Serbia. When peace came, as peace occurred as of December 1995, the number of refugees increased in Serbia. And we always get hurt when there's peace! In 2001, 377 thousand, 2005 – 141,000, and today it is estimated that there are over 300,000 refugees. In the debate in particular, we will present our views of individual members of the bill, what we think is bad, what we think is good and from the fate of these amendments, will be quite dependent on our political side's position when voting on this bill. I have to draw attention, refugee is the consequence, cause of something else. The cause, let's say, when it comes to Slovenia, Mr Dacic, we have 25,000 "written," you know. And when Jelko Kacin comes, grab his hand. A few days ago, when he said "mirdita", he said it because of me, that I made his stay in Belgrade bitter, I reminded him of what happened to those dead soldiers, without guns, who were fired, and he from Cankar's home was saying that he was attacking the air force, the navy, satellites on their young "democracy". Ask him to answer yes, to qualify to enter the talks here. So he got mad, and he turned to the "mirdite" and poor Boris grabbed his head, he doesn't know, the night before, they made a deal, the way a man cracks. He broke because of me. They're just gonna shoot, so you know. We need the truth. Tudjman said he would reduce the Serbian national Corps on Croatia's territory to 2%. That's what he did. The first stage – he kicked out of the Constitution. Second stage – finished. Stage three: "Glass" and "Storm". Where are your flashes and storms?- I'm sorry. How did those who voted happily last night for that declaration change their story today? Well, that's two different stories, people. You can't do that! Serbia needs to know the truth! We have the most refugees. We also have a new category - internally displaced. To gain refugee status, it means that on the territory where he lived someone committed a crime against humanity. That crime is called deportation and forced transfer. Well, that's where I'm waiting for you. You don't know the words! A refugee in Serbia lived somewhere. Where he lived, the person who exercised the effective power has deported these people and forced the transfer. Have you filed a case against someone? No, I don't. Why are we passing this law? You wrote it. Yesterday's declaration on the orders of the European Parliament. This law, they say, "we'll blow the money." And here's what you wrote on page 16, that's the third side of the argument, the EU integration programme, the section and that, it says -- to adopt a new law on refugees, to continue implementing a national strategy on refugees. Well, you're doing everything by order from the West. Everything! This morning, in that deaf time, the voted Declaration, plus this, is getting a second plus. You're going to get a list of what needs to be fulfilled. And where are our interests? Let's see how anybody's been acting for these 15-20 years? Mr. Dacic, I wasn't defending the SPS yesterday, I was trying to tell the truth. They attacked both you and Slavica Djukic and Slobodan Milosevic and everyone else. Slobodan Milosevic went with Dobric Cosic to turn his hands to Radovan Karadzic, to accept the peace plans, and some others went to eat oxen at the Palace! And you didn't even mention them. Who were you attacking yesterday? Who was in the government of Milan Panic? Radicals? No, I don't. The SPS also accepted Perisic, Grubač and Djukic, etc. Itd. Clear that up there, but don't do what you're attacking the SPS to attribute to us. Don't pin it on us! That's the story. Mr. Dacic, do you remember when the radicals came to power in Zemun Municipality in December 1996? So Vojislav Seselj, the SRS, and the SPS, why don't I say, worked out some locations, shared, minors for free, refugees to help resolve their status. One is refugee, and the other are civil rights, human rights of every man. They're all former SFRY citizens. If Tudjman and Ali Izetbegovic hadn't expelled them, they could have bought in peace in Serbia, and you opposed in 1992, why to hire, why to buy immovable property. Read the stenogram! I'm here to remind you that the public understands that everyone understands who you are and what you are. Who blocked into Zemun's plumbing and sewers? The Belgrade Authority! Who was in power? In one period Zoran Djindjic and then Vuk Draskovic. No sewers, no water, no electricity! You've blocked the refugee settlements. Why? They don't vote refugees for DS. Here, now they vote for you. Have you solved the problem? You're not! The problem for you is how to reach the vote to be in power. You're solving a problem? Woe to him who solves the problem. It's a cruel truth in Serbia. You've blocked it. Let's see what's next. One of the currents of that EU, yesterday you were talking about the right to life, I agree, is private property, sacredness. Is she respected in the EU? Yeah. Why isn't that standard in the former SFRY space? Why don't your friends pressure the authorities in Slovenia, the authorities in Zagreb, the government in BiH, this call to KIM, to respect private property as sacred, as is done in France and Germany? Then there wouldn't be a problem with refugee. But no, double standards and, list: today this, tomorrow this, the day after that. If you do not do this, you will not. If you do this, I will reward you. What is it, carrots? Is it broken? It's broken, it's rotten. You have her over the media to make her an atomic bomb. Enough of that manipulation! We don't have a vocabulary contest for some dates, so the literarys can be distributed to the MPs, so they can read us some mourning girls here for two days. Face the truth, reality, twice. What they're saying is, let's see ( since this is the end of my time, not to spoil my colleagues from the party) two years ago, on the day of the refugee, there's been a problem, of course, there's Rasim Ljajic, you know, a disaster in working relations, and he's criticising the government, and he's in power, well, that's Rasim's policy. How did Boris Tadic say to resolve the issue of refugeeism? Don't be surprised. He used the same sentence as when to solve the mosquito problem, like when to solve the problem of the workplace, the coin, etc. Tadic says: "Integration in the EU – solution to refugee problems. "It is simply a solution to EU integration. And we'll keep KIM if we join the EU. We will achieve everything, only integration into the EU is important, and the EU has taken everything that can be taken from this country. Now, that's you. Look, you tried something amazing yesterday. There is a name dispute between Greece and Macedonia. Now Serbia with the EU is going to have a problem with KIM because of the name. You're not for it to be Kosovo, you're for UNMIK-Kosovo. It would be like analogy -- Greece-Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. So, some basic vital problem you bring down to lecturing, grammar, spelling. So you're also a matter of genocide, yesterday it took the word "genocide," if not clear, then anyone can interpret that word by interpreting it. Yesterday we talked about it, and two days in the old building, there's an international gathering, "decentralization", which translates into how to "crush" Serbia to the end. Well, people, Serbia needs power to take care of citizens' interests. Maybe what I said isn't nice for ears, but it's all dry facts and truth. Let's face it, my dear citizens, with the truth and the facts! And let those literary compositions and stories go away, and it will be better. When's it gonna get better? Jackna?- I'm sorry. For years, we have been told by the EU, the EU. So, who's taking us, who's destroying our country? The NATO Pact and the EU! Who did they recognize as their enemy here? The Serbian Radical Party! That's why Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague. This is evidence in The Hague tribunal that they wanted to make evidence of charges against Vojislav Seselj. It's turned around, the proof of defense has become! Well, and what you're talking about refugees today, it's all evidence of defense for the Serb people. But we haven't changed, and you've changed. That's your problem, not ours. We're principled. The mob doesn't control us, they don't control tycoons, foreign intelligence. We are clear, precise, we have an argument for every political position. We're not ashamed to say anything. And that's why we're the best political party, and DOS is the worst in every aggregate state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38174	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, a normative framework will be created to remove the shortcomings of applicable laws in the regulation of the rights and positions of refugees, as well as to achieve the conditions for their permanent integration. I must say, to this day, I have not been in a position to talk about the Refugees Act or to participate in the possible novelty of this law. But I was able to live with my fellow citizens in Panchev and the refugees, because in November 1991, we were able to welcome the first refugees from other parts of the former SFRY. On the initiative of the Pančevci, certain things, not only when adopting the Law on Refugees in 1992, but also resolving certain documents, such as refugee legislation, refugee records. That's exactly what the local government in Panchev, along with the Red Cross organization in Panchev, launched the initiative and issued the first IDs and first refugee charts to record aid and to distribute more evenly that poverty that could be distributed to people who had left their place of residence and shelter elsewhere. As the first Refugee Commissioner, elected then in the area of Pancheva, perhaps even in the territory of all Serbia, I think it was April 1992, I was able to establish, together with my associates, the first collective centre, later, in the time to come, 11 collective refugee accommodation centres were located in the municipality of Pancheva or in the immediate environment. We were able to welcome a plane from Sarajevo with Jewish families, located in a Panchea hotel in June 1992, to continue our journey to Israel. Just everything that we've been through together with the refugees who have come to seek refuge in Panchev, it's after us to try to reach as high-quality laws on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. Lately, local self-government in Panchev, thanks to explaining the size of this problem we are facing, we were able to build 30 housing units in 2005, with the help of Switzerland's Swiss humanitarian organisation, and enable those who are in the most difficult situation to solve the housing issue. During 2005 and 2006, with all the facilities inhabited by 2007, even 123 housing units were built in the populated city of Jabuka and in the populated town of Pančevo, of which 10% for the domicile population. That would be impossible if we hadn't provided assistance in that area, friends from Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Japan, the EU. The way in which we are trying to ensure co-operation in the region, I think it will create conditions for refugees and exiled persons, which is a humanitarian, economic, political character, to achieve a lasting solution, and that is, above all, possible with successful co-operation in the region. I think it's clear to all of us that we need to define the exact jurisdiction, bring the norms and this law into line with other laws. The current Refugee Law should be brought into line with other applicable laws on Serbia's territory, and this law on amendments to the law monitors life and monitors the needs of the refugee population above all. By adopting the law, we will create conditions for achieving two basic objectives. First of all, to enable the return of all the refugees and exiled persons who want it and, on the other hand, we will create conditions to achieve integration, without discrimination in the environment in which the exiles live, and related to the security of fundamental rights, and that is the right to housing. Therefore, not only as a member of the DS and a member of the MEP group, but as a man who is thoroughly familiar with the refugee population's problems, I urge you to adopt a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act in the voting day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38176	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister isn't here, in the opening part as an authorised representative, I've been saying some general political things, and here's the time to maybe look back on the very things that concern the Law itself, because that's the least we've said. My colleague, Mr. Nikola Lazic, has talked a lot about it, but I think it's time to say a few more things about it. It would be really unnecessary to mention that this law was created in April 2006, because I see that some people are being overly irritated and I don't think it's the time to discuss it that way. What's the point? What's new about this law and what's the basic idea of this law? It is, above all, the introduction of positive discrimination in resolving the refugee housing issue. That's what's important. To integrate, it is necessary to resolve his household issue permanently, and this law is in motion. This permanent solution is the highest quality of this law. Refugees go into the procedure of buying that apartment, not just using that apartment. This apartment becomes their property, and then the first step towards integration is made. Unlike the social housing model, which I really don't think needs to be exploited anymore when it comes to refugees, because the basic right of every man living in one environment, who has integrated in that environment, is that he has a settled housing issue, that he has his own apartment, and that should be for other citizens of Serbia, which, of course, is not. The bottom line of the story is that unlike this model of social housing here, it's offered as a possibility to form a fund, which from the means of buying apartments, which from other means, which can be different, the issue of budgets, the issue of donations, because so far we've largely managed in this way, actually opens up the possibility of turning the circle and that new people always come to the apartment and that the issue of refugee housing is resolved permanently. For us from the DSS, the adoption of this law is the first step, an important step but the first step, in the integration of refugees. That is why we expect to pass a few more laws, several even system laws to really speed up the lives of these people, to speed up the integration of these people and make them more painless and successful. What we also insist on, and I said a few times in this first address, is that this problem can only be solved trilaterally and exclusively, I insist, relying on the assets of the Sarajevo Ministerial Declaration, and the only one that essentially refuses to do so is Croatia. It is very important for us to have Serbia continuously on every occasion, each Serbian official insists on a number of things, which are: firstly property-law issues, which are not resolved and must be resolved and secondly issues in the sphere of human and civil rights. Since we experienced in Croatia that Serbs instead of the constituent people would be a minority people, the insistence on minority rights. Serbia is a country that and how it works to develop minority rights and I think it should be expected, at least the minimum of those standards, to get Serbs in Croatia. For the DSS issue of refugees, it's not a humanitarian issue, and it's not a question that we'd argue about here and make a story about making a voting body. For us, it's a political question of a couple of excellencies. It is always necessary to insist on human rights, which Europe and how it respects and has high standards. Well, I guess Serbs should have the exact same human rights and must have civil rights and freedoms in Croatia, as other citizens in Croatia have, as do Croats in Serbia and as do all others who belong to other peoples in Serbia. Also, we believe, it can't be expected that the return is a right that is being handed down for one period, those who have come, they have come, it's good, they've come back, now we're done with their return. The return is, gentlemen, a permanent human right. A man can come back and not have to, but he can decide when he will return and where he will return, and that is the question Croatia does not want to resolve. For us, the return process is not complete and must be insisted. I am sorry that Mr Dacic is not here, not because I am, now, something, afraid or not, because he is bothering me that he has come, what I was underlining and I wanted to point out is that those who are in charge of it, who are paying Serbian citizens to deal with this problem, and these are others, Mr Krkobic, Mr Ljajic, are not there, and Mr Dacic absolutely doesn't mind me. It bothers me that I can't get answers to the questions I asked Mr. Dacic, because I know I can't even get them from Mr. Dacic, but from Mr. Krkobibic, who would have to answer those questions for me. I'll insist that I get answers, even if they tell him or otherwise. What we are very interested in from the DSS are the data and estimates of the Refugees Building Fund, which is now at the disposal of the Republic of Serbia. We cannot see that from this material that we have received, and that is why it is important, because it is important that we talk about it. Secondly, how many new apartments do you plan to build from the funds obtained by the purchase of these apartments that are provided under this law. That's because I think we should consider the amendments the DSS submitted. I think they're too much of an amendment, I think they're good, they're good and they're good and they're in favour that this law can be implemented in practice. If it can't be realized, and it won't be possible if the ransom is called giving 90 percent of the value of the apartment, it's not a ransom. It's a gift. We're talking about a ransom. This ransom, of course, goes with all the other reliefs, but that 30% you get for buying an apartment goes to a fund from which someone else will be able to get an apartment in permanent property. That's the essence of this law. That is why we insist that we receive answers and that within a reasonable period of time we can really talk further about the application of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38178	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's an obligation for every member of Parliament to begin to conclude that the work we do here is, in fact, in vain. On the one hand, because inapplicable laws are passed, and that is what we have often warned you about. On the other hand, laws are passed that are not applied in the territory of a comprehensive Serbian state. On the third hand, what happened a few days ago in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, we experienced there that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina refused to apply the law passed by this National Assembly. I think that should certainly be the subject of some of our future talks and serious talks at the level of the state administration. This morning, in an explanation of this law, counterpart Meho Omerovic, acting as president of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, said it was strange, does not know whether or not, by chance, that after yesterday's debate, we have this debate on the agenda. I have to tell you, it's not an accident, on the contrary, it's very deliberate. I remind you that yesterday, you passed that shameful declaration, which you found that Serbs in Srebrenica committed genocide, and today we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, where in a drastic way you amended Article 1 of the Basic Law. That Article 1 said: "Serbs and citizens of other nationalities who, due to pressure from Croatian authorities or authorities in other republics, are being threatened by genocide, as well as persecution and discrimination over their religious and national belongings or political beliefs, were forced to leave their residences in those republics and to flee to the territory of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as refugees) is being provided," and so on and further states what this law is doing. It bothered you, of course, after the shame of yesterday, you will have to act like this in some other regulations, which said in this refugee law that they had to flee from their hearths due to pressure from the Croatian authorities due to the threat of genocide, persecution, etc. You have now written some neutral formulation – persons who, due to events from 1991 to 1998 and their consequences have been avoided, etc. So you're doing something that bothers every Serb's reputation, which disturbs the reputation of the Serbian state, and you really have to face it. We have submitted to this first member the amendment, and when spoken in particular, then we will explain the amendment in detail, as well as everyone else. What's interesting about the debate on this bill? Today, we have listened to different approaches to this law, and in fact different approaches to refugees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, refugees, exiled and exiled, who unfortunately had to leave, temporarily displaced, as they are already called, their hearths at the constitutional borders of the Republic of Serbia, people from Kosovo and Metohija. Part of the debate was praised that the state of Serbia welcomed those people who had to come to Serbia for genocide and persecution. That's what we say, and you think it differently, and they, believe me, all know that they came to Serbia because of genocide and persecution from the centuries-old hearths. On the other hand, we've heard some sad stories about these people's hard lives. I'm telling you that these Serbian citizens don't want, don't ask and expect this Parliament and the state authorities to do any other story. They seek and expect the state of Serbia, of course, and the National Assembly to behave stately in relation to the problems these citizens have, for almost two decades now, in the state of Serbia. These problems, of course, began with the inadequacy of these people and the inadequacy of the Serbian state, because Western forces wanted and succeeded, unfortunately, to tear up the former Yugoslavia in the way they did. They began by occupying the entire Republika Srpska Krajina and keeping it under occupation day and day. In that sense, of course, no one can and will, no one serious and normal, put Serbia on the soul of anything negative from that period. From the moment these people began to come to Serbia, no matter how unhappy they were, leaving their centuries-old hearths, they came to the mother and queen of Serbia. Believe me, all Serbs born on the other side of Drina and Danube have always experienced Serbia. Not only because they needed it as a refuge when they came as refugees or exiles, but because all of us who were born there were brought up so that Serbia is the mother of the Serbian people. Unfortunately, the mother did not welcome her children as expected. Unfortunately, even today, the attitude towards these people in Serbia is not what these people deserve, what their fates deserve, and still, unfortunately, a large number of these citizens do not live on the lives of a decent man. This is the problem of this country, and this problem should also be solved by the National Assembly, by passing adequate laws, of course, and by the executive power, by applying these laws and by creating conditions for these people to live in the way that every man should and must live. Unfortunately, all of this in Serbia is very different from what is being said here and back in the media for years. I believe that people who listened today to a part of these discussions, and people who were those fates, were refugees, or were today, to turn their guts. How else can they react, for example, to people who are from Kosovo and Metohija, who have been temporarily displaced, who have been in some of these centres for years, who are more and more than any other center? Unfortunately, I have visited many refugee and eviction centers and what is seen there is something that really shouldn't be spoken of. It's so scary that it's better not to hear what it looks like. And then for years you have promised back, you will abolish those centers. These people, for example, from Kosovo and Metohija know what was heard a few days ago and here, and a fellow MP from the SRS has asked that question, but we still haven't received an answer, how are some citizens, Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija getting double salaries? How is it that some health workers get paid by the state of Serbia in education, but also get paid by the false state of Kosovo, because they work for them too? Of course, the answer is very simple. We will not get the official response, although it is wanted ten days ago, for one simple reason, which is, for example, one of those who receive wages in this way and who work for this false state of Kosovo and women of Minister for Kosovo and the Metohija of Mr Bogdanovic, and yet I must remind that he was also the minister in the first Shiptar government. So, unfortunately, nothing should surprise us. You saw the other day that tragic encounter between Josipovic and Tadic in Opatija. It was really hard to watch when they took a walk in Opatija, so when Josipovic represents, there, some youth, who they met on that promenade or set them up to meet them, he says, "This is Boris," and he gives his hand and says, "I am Boris. Is that how the president of the state is represented? Is that how the president of the state communicates when he goes somewhere to represent Serbia, because it is his constitutional obligation? And we need to remind the citizens that he did it the day the tragic anniversary of the criminal NATO aggression was marked in Serbia. What now citizens who once lived in the territory of Croatia, or mostly in the territory of Republika Srpska, occupied today, can expect from the president of the country where they live today when such an unserious relationship shows in that country where they should be shown as a statesman, where they should say, "Do you know how many hundreds of thousands of Serbs live in Serbia and you have occupied their territory, you have taken their property, you do not allow them to exercise tensile rights, you do not allow them to return to eternal hearths! 'Cause it's mostly not published, because every few days it happens either murder or beating up, or burning property? Like, declaratively, Croatia says – come back. And whoever goes there knows his skin. There goes one who can't survive here. These are the ones you boast they have returned, because the state of Serbia in some bilateral relations with Croatia has made it possible for them to return. He mentioned fellow Krasic that the Zemun Municipality was welcomed by refugees in its own time. I really need to say a few sentences about this, because I consider the brightest part of my professional career that period when I was on the Vojislav Seselj team in Zemun Municipality when he was the president of the municipality, when we formed the settlements of Busia, the Blue Horizon, the Grmovac, when we allowed thousands of families to have their own piece of land again today and houses, homes, etc. I remember, I can never forget that, an older man who, when I handed him the solution that he got that salary in the bush, a man who was seventy years old at the time, cried and said, "Thank you, child, I can never forget this, he made me a man again, I have something of mine again." That's how the state of Serbia was supposed to treat these people, my dear colleagues and, gentlemen, the representatives of the government. It's easy to write the law. How do you apply it? How do these people really live? You bring this law to take some money from them too, to give them under special conditions. Why didn't you predict that they could buy these apartments as well as all the citizens, because it's still in force of the House Act. You know they can't reach their apartments, their housing rights, the territory of the Croatian state. Then why are they here to be second-class citizens again and to bring Lex specials for them, when it comes to housing rights and buying apartments? Where's your soul going, man?- I'm sorry. Indeed, shame and shame. You have nothing to brag about when it comes to this law, as much cannot serve you. We are here a few days ago, from one colleague, I will not mention his name, in one debate, when another Serbian Radical Party colleague, who was not born in Serbia, said - we cannot speak in the same way about the problem in one city in Serbia, because unlike you, I have no other background. That's what we hear here in Parliament. It's terrible to listen in 2010, and yesterday you say Serbs committed genocide in Srebrenica. Indeed, a disgrace and a disgrace and a terrible thing. It is also terrible that these days people who came from Republika Srpska come to us from day to day, angry that, when they enter a store, newspapers these days write about offering our children a picture book for preschool age – Croatian edition, to offer some toys, says "Vlakic Jurica", probably Serbian citizens, most of them do not know what "train" means – a small train. It's something this country has to deal with. It may seem banal to you, but believe me, someone who's been through that gogoth and when he comes to Serbia, to Belgrade, when he enters the store, and when he sees something like that, the skin gets chilly. A serious state problem is co-operation between the authorities of the prosecution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the state of Serbia. What did you gentlemen do in that field? Whoever goes to the Republic of Croatia, no man is sure he will return, that he will not be arrested. And what did you do with Ejup Ganic? What did you do for the Tuzlan column? Don't do anything to help your people. You are doing everything in the interest of the enemies of the Serbian people. You proved it yesterday! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38180	National MP Dusan Maric has a word. (Not here) Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38181	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister is gone, today's state of Serbia represents the remains of former historical Serbian countries. The borders of Serbia, particularly through the history of the 19th and 20th centuries, dictated and dictated a certain imperial global force, without the elemental respect for international law, since the borders of the Serbian nation were established mainly by violent means, by war route, especially today, which were determined after the 1991-1995 war without holding a peace conference and a conference on the distinction between former SFRJ administrative units. It should be pointed out that the idea of grand Croatianism has emptyed Serbian historical spaces. For example, numerous Serbian refugees left the Serbian premises of the illegally established Banovina of Croatia in 1939-1941, when even prominent Croats, the Yugoslavs, had to flee to Belgrade, for example, a great intellectual Juraj Demetrovic with a family, then, Predovac, the son of a prominent Croatian politician. A huge wave of refugees appeared in 1941 when they were received and rescued by Nedic's Commissioner Maksimovic. Furthermore, Broz's colonization of Serbs, 1945, 1946, in Srem, Banat and Baka, was in fact a solution to so-called. Serbia's national issue in Croatia. Furthermore, the separatist mass movement in Croatia in 1971 caused a new wave of refugeeism. At that time, I and my family had to leave my hometown. Through all these evictions, of course, and genocide, Serbs from the former majority people are reduced to the remains of the remains, and today, as far as we know, to the national minority. All of this happened before President Milosevic, who is today accusing himself of using his policy to produce Croatia's cleansing from Serbs. The bloody civil war, waged in the 1990s, has produced numerous innocent victims, casualties and destruction and migrations most affected by the Serbian people from Serbia. A 1991-1995 projected war by the United States, Great Britain and other countries, so-called Western democracies, mostly displaced the Serbian people. Namely, Serbian countries, especially in the administrative region of Croatia, have been completely cleansed by Serbs. The people's plebiscite founded Republika Srpska Krajina, which was otherwise under international protection, was destroyed in 1995 in two military operations "Blash" and "Storm", a criminal action by the Croatian military with the logistics and military support of the United States. Serbs in the crowd simply feel a planetary injustice, which has been done and today seems above them. Only the capital of Belgrade has been bombed four times by the strongest imperial forces since 1941. The former liberal Wilson and Communist, the Comintern right of the people to self-determination, the will of today's global leaders was recognised by all new nations and by the suprasies of the former Yugoslavia, except for the old most numerous people, Orthodox Serbs, the state terror of the new state of Croatia, which followed the ideology and fluidity of the Nazi independent state of Croatia at the time of its creation in 1991. The fact was also revealed in Croatian documents on Tudjman's plan for the destruction of Serbs and the recognition of the former minister of the Republic of Croatia, Bokovac, of Croats as initiators of war. The old strategy for ethnic cleansing of Orthodox Serbs from World War II – a third kill, a third cross to Roman Catholicism and a third to evict, was finally realized in 1991-1995 in the war against Serbs. A similar war scenario was applied in the Yugoslav provinces of BiH, again, the US and British war plan until the extermination of the Serb people of three religions. So the religious wars that were civil at the same time created a huge wave of refugeeism. More than 600,000 people have been evicted from Croatia and Republika Srpska, from BiH about 180,000 from Kosovo and Metohija over 150,000 refugees and displaced persons. The basic problem of the Serbian people and Serbian politics in requests for cunning Latins and Muslims is that it always comes with minimalist demands, so it gets nothing in the end. Nothing learned or understood from the Croatian policy strategy through the 20th century, which has always appeared with the maximumist demands, so it has always gained more than it expected. It seems that Serbian state policy has reconciled with the current independent position of the entire Serbian people, particularly the refugee Corps, which is without its territory and any national and religious rights in their prerogatives, Dalmatia, Istria, Krajina, Croatia, Slavonia, BiH, Kosovo and Metohija, but also in today's Montenegro and Boca. I wonder why the Serbian state at least does not protect the truth in Serbian historical areas from which many refugees have been expelled by war force? In addition to the SRS, no other political formation mentions the return of the situation in the current countries of crime, Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo, at the time of the election of the legitimate people's plebiscite, in the establishment of Republika Srpska, on the return of the status of political people to the Krajijski Serbs and the eradication of the humiliatingly violently established position of the national minority. The devastating fact is that there is no indication that the Serbian state will launch the usual legal requirements for the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with international law. In particular, there will be no lawsuit for genocide in 1941-1991. From the point of view of international law, the violently established state-of-law situation in the Republic of Croatia is completely illegal. The war ended with the criminal occupation of Republika Srpska, otherwise the UN-protected states, without the approval of a peace conference, which would at least ensure a minimum of the people's rights of the Western Serbs. Instead of a peace conference, the West's pet, Croatia has been rewarded for its crimes of killing and banishing Western Serbs by international legalisation by force established by the great Croatia in the historic Serbian country. In fact, the policy of force, with the blessing of liberal democracies, primarily the United States, has allowed Croatia to occupy Serbian countries, but the Yugoslav sea and islands, which have never been Croatian in history, were mostly Muslim, Austrian and ultimately Yugoslav. Such Croatia, which is absurd, is located outside the EU door. So religious, political and military terrorist actions have been reducing Serbian ethnic, national, geopolitical and ultimately state space. After all the anti-Serbian actions of the liberal democratic West, and of some domestic contractors, the Serbian people hold an infamous European record of the number of refugees. He's the first in Europe. There is no need to forget in world terms, most refugees have Palestinian people. As a member of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, I spoke on several occasions about the problem of war migration in the former Yugoslavia, noting that the former Yugoslavia's space has been neglected in relation to the Middle East's emigration problem. Because of the historic injustice committed against Serbs, I have repeatedly insisted that the issue of forced war migration in the former Yugoslavia be placed on the Mediterranean Assembly's agenda. After my repeated advances, the Western Balkans area eventually received due attention from the Mediterranean Assembly. At the Mediterranean Assembly, I provided information on the forced refugee of the Serb population due to the exile from the territory of Slovenia and Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. I highlighted the problem of double standards through the inconsistency of the principle of non-violence of borders and the right to self-determination by international factors and, as a rule, to the detriment of the interest of the Serbian people, particularly, given the dominant ideological matrix in the former Yugoslavia, which in Croatia and Kosovo and Metohija has dramatically violated the individual and collective rights of the Serbian national community. So, our delegation formed a congregation working body for the issue of forced refugees from the Western Balkans area, as a particularly thorny area of the Mediterranean region. In July 2010, Belgrade will host the Mediterranean Assembly and the refugee problems of ex Yugoslavia will be at the heart of attention. So Serbia was given a chance to host the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly in July 2010, where the issue of forced war migration will be specifically discussed. We expect full support from all political state factors, especially the president of the Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38182	Thank you. National MP Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38183	Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest irreparable flaw of this law is that it does not cover the so-called internally displaced. It is 250,000 Serbs who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, who are neither exiles nor refugees for the state of Serbia, but, as I said, internally displaced persons. It is an offensive, offensive term that is banalising, reducing the tragedy experienced by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. It hides their old status and their fate and, more dangerously, this term hides the crime situation that has been committed over the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija over the past 10 and 15 years. Kostici from Retimlj near Orahovac, the Shipari killed 14 men's heads, burned down all their houses, robbed all their property, and then expelled them across what they said was the borders of Kosovo and Metohija. For the Republic of Serbia, they are internally displaced. Ladies and gentlemen, the local villages in the Danube Valley or the Drina Valley have been displaced for the construction of the hydrocentrale. Displaced faces are locals living in the vicinity of colombian coal mines. The displaced faces are Roma living in a wild settlement near the "Gazal" bridge in New Belgrade, but Serbs from KIM are not displaced persons. By force, by rifle, and by knife, under the threat of death, they were thrown out of the homeland where they lived, out of the homes that were burned down. There are several thousand Serbs living in the Great Plan with KIM, I have lived there for 15 years, and I have never heard one of them say that an internally displaced face, everyone says to themselves that they are refugees. Speaking of KIM, I'm asking a question - when will the UNMIK government and the Eulex direct, at least a mild rebuke for failing to fulfil their obligation to return the exiled Serbs to KIM? According to Resolution 1244, they were obliged to return 40,000 Serbs to Pristina, and returned ten. In Prizren, of 10,000 Serbs, 15 returned. As the government has failed in writing this bill, I believe that the state of Serbia has failed when it comes to providing conditions for the return of the exiled Croatians and BiH to their homeland. In particular, I believe that the state of Serbia in interstate contacts, in contact with the international community, could and had to do more to ensure that Serbs were allowed to return to BiH and Croatia. Serbia has an obligation and a right, as a state of the Serbian people, as a country from which refugees return and as a signator of the Dayton Agreement, Annex Seven, to push more aggressively to address the problem. Although it declares itself for the return of the Serb population to Croatia, the Croatian state, in practice, does everything seem to prevent it from returning. Of the 700,000 exiled, 350,000 from 1991 to 1995 from Republika Srpska, only 60,000 returned. A particularly significant place in preventing the return of Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia has been constantly arrested and harassed by Croatian police, on false and secret charges of alleged war crimes. The number of these charges is a state secret, no one knows their number, mostly they appear, from time to time, depending on political and daily political needs. On average, it does not pass a month without any of the Serb returnees being arrested on arrival in Croatia, although you have cases of people going to Croatia five, six times and having no problems, so that seven or eight times they are arrested and charged with war crimes. We keep hearing how justice and police ministers have constant contacts, good contacts, with their colleagues in Croatia, with their colleagues in Zagreb, and that's good. They boast, especially by co-operation in the fight against crime. I ask one question – is there more crime than preventing the return of 500,000 expelled people from Croatia? There's no major crime. Therefore, I urge the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay more attention to this problem. The same is true in BiH. I'll say a few words here about the return of refugees to the Federation of BiH. There are at least 527 settlements in the Muslim-Croatian Federation that have not returned to a single refugee. These settlements no longer exist, since Serbs were the only population in them. Most of these settlements are located in the Herzegovina municipality of Ravna, a total of 71 settlements. 32 Serb settlements died, died in Ozren. There are no Serbs in Bugojn and Upper Vakufu in 42 villages. In the valley of the Bosnia River, near Sarajevo, 57 Serb villages were desolate, without a single living soul. It's the same case as going back to the cities. You have dozens of cities where the number of returnees can count on two hands. 2,000 Serbs lived in Kupres before the war, and they accounted for 65% of the population. Today, seven Serbs of older age live in Kupres. In neighbouring Duvno lives, also nine Serbs, not one single Serb returned to Capljin, returned to Key 18. Of the 16,000 Serb refugees from Bihac, 380 returned. In the Sanhedrin Bridge, of 24,000, 2,500 returned. In Sarajevo, where President Boris Tadic and his associates are happy to go and apologize for the actual and imaginary crimes of Serbs against Muslims, of the pre-war 160,000 Serbs, only 7,000 now live. Another amazing data the state of Serbia is supposed to take into account, there are 70 settlements in the Federation, in the 70 settlements live 15,000 inhabitants with 2,000 children, in which 15 years after the war there is still no electricity. We are witnessing that our politicians are constantly apologizing for the crimes that Serbs committed against Croats and Muslims. Serbian war crimes prosecutors, people said, are making charges of crimes against Croats and Muslims, the Serbian Parliament adopts the Declaration, a shameful declaration apologising for a crime of genocide that has not been committed. Now I ask the question, after all these concessions, after all these outstretched hands – is it possible that the state of Serbia is unable to ensure that Serbs in Croatia and BiH are guaranteed that basic elemental right, the right to return to their own and to have their private property, their private property? Speaking of Srebrenica, I had a very interesting idea – 12,500 Serbs, whom Naser Oric and his bandits, who you mourned here yesterday, have not yet returned to their settlements, because they have no place to return. At the end of this presentation, I will read a refugee confession from November 1995, written by a man who had watched his birth village burn at the Kupresk High School two days before. He says, "I'm ripped out of my homeland, but the birth is in me. I'll never go back to my hometown again. He was occupied by the Croatian Army and Serbian politics. I'll never see my native Cemalic again and enter the parents' home. They disappeared in the flames of Ustasha hatred and Serbian discord. There are only stone walls left, an eternal monument to our eternal existence at the Kupresh High. I'll never see my mother Stan under the Hard Cuckoo, taking a burden of years, rushing down the road to meet me on my backs from the white world. In another man's house, in another man's world she looks forward to the night so she can hide from the sight of strangers, cry out a piece, like the starry sky, endless sorrows for lost homes and homelands. I will never watch my father rush after plow and horse in our fields in early April, and as he asks me about Serbian politics, Belgrade, Slobodan Milosevic, "Partisan", the Bajic brothers, by the way, artificially corrects the turned-over ridge. Stared at the ceiling, under which a similar unfortunate man escaped, he does not think about whether he will have anything to eat tomorrow, but whether at least his descendants will sometimes rest in the shade of the forest that he had raised in Klekovov for 50 years, will he wait to see the landscapes under Little and Big Vitorog again before he died. I will never again, on May 6th, with my parents, brother, and neighbors, in our house, celebrate St George's cross glory. There are only icons left wrapped in refugee vows, several framed photographs and scattered in refugee sites, hungry and humiliated. I will never stand before the altar of the "Blessed" church where I was baptized again. In front of him is only the silence of the century, the silent witness of our prayers and repentance, our dreams and our slips. I'll never get into the school building where I wrote my first letters, first time I saw the ball, he fell in love for the first time. In an empty classroom, they mourn the fallen generations of memories, with characters who now, when we've lost our birthplace, come out more clearly than ever. I will never go to our country cemetery again and light a candle on the grave of my late brother Dušan, on the graves of relatives, school friends, neighbors, which we have fought in the battles we fought for the defense of Serbia at the Kuprešska Visoravna and in our Bosnia, Milan on Corridor, Luka on Gorazd, Spiro in Kupres, Vukasin on Gjolina Kosa, Stojan on Velika Šuljaga. There's now more devastation around the cemetery than in the cemetery. Never again, as the yellow horizon above the coat of arms defies the twilight, which is drawn beneath the wing of the forest Great Vitoroga and descends into the valleys, I will not listen to the song of the reapers walking away in the field on the horse's car. The meadows remained unblemished, the grain unrepentant, the hairs burned in burned homes, and the hair of someone in the trench, someone in the grave, and someone abroad in search of bread, oblivion, and their sky. "I now end up with one question, the human question -- how will the authors of yesterday's declaration of the fictional genocide in Srebrenica, which has thrown a terrible anthem on the Serbian people, which puts a terrible cross on the back of the Serb people that will carry this people for a hundred years, how can they understand this confession and tragedy of this man and 700 thousand like unfortunate people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38184	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic, the MP has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38185	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, this law comes with one delay, but it is good that it is also proposed, because it improves a part of the situation of refugees and the injured Serb people who have been expelled from the centuries-old hearths, as my predecessors and my colleagues from the SRS have said. We must remind ourselves that crimes against Serbs in the territory of Croatia from 1990 to 1999 are unremembered. What did not go after the hand of Anti Pavelic, during the NDH from 1941 to 1945, was achieved by Franjo Tudjman in the period from 1990 to 1995. He was helped by the international community, and above all by the NATO Pact and the United States. The United States has sown numerous wars in a number of countries and protagonists of suffering and breaking the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were ambassadors of America, Germany and other NATO countries. The largest protagonist, opponent and enemy of the Serbian people since the 1990s are the United States, which in history, after World War II, proved their influence in most countries. Let's think of the near past since World War II. We remember the Korean War, the overthrow of the elected governments of Guatemala, Iran, Chile, Indonesia, Argentina, the wars in Central America, the invasion of Lebanon, the turning back on the Palestinians and Kurds, the killings of Patris Lumumbe in Congo, the support of the fascist apartheid in South Africa, the monstrous war in Indonesia, in which they lost the lives of millions of Vietnamese, Cambodians, Laoshan and more than 50,000 American soldiers. There's both war and economic blockades against Iraq, over nine years, etc. The U.S. Central Intelligence Department is now waging and producing all wars and war conflicts in the globes of all continents. Repeat, on purpose, Pavelic's formula for the destruction of Serbs, what Dr. Zutic, a member of the SRS, said to remind the public, that one third of Serbs should be killed, one third expelled, one third crossed into Catholic religion. Tudjman modified, not on purpose, by driving about three-quarters of Serbs away, slightly more than 1% killed, and those who stayed or returned can if he wanted to do the paperwork, which means he finished the planned job. Serbian property, including the entire cultural and spiritual heritage, has been robbed, damaged or completely destroyed. In Croatia, a number of discrimination laws are applied against Serbs, which make it difficult or disabling the return of property, the achievement of ethnic rights acquired, the right to vote, the return to the hearth, the burial of the dead, the use of the letter, the confession of faith, which places them in the citizens of the second order. They managed to make it through their constitution. Croatia is the state in which the greatest sin is to be a Serb. An ethnic cleansing has not yet been carried out in Croatia, but it is threatening to see it realised. Three-quarters of Serbs from Croatia were expelled. This information also confirms this – the participation of Serbs in the population of Croatia by the 2001 census. Where are the Serbs from Croatia now? In 2001, there were 284,334 Serbs living in Serbia, who were expelled from Croatia and who were once on the list. What I particularly want, I would not repeat what my colleagues have brought out today, and I believe that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, in particular, through my portfolio, I hope and expect, will take appropriate steps to address one of the big issues in Croatia with the authorities responsible in Croatia, with the participation of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently being conducted in Croatia against 4.530 persons, Serbs, for war crimes. Imagine, about 100,000 Serbs, war criminals, were suspected and charged. One number thanked them, the Croatian regime, of that large number, and amnested them. If you cross-reference the Nuremberg process, you will come up with one piece of information that in Nuremberg, the Fascism of Hitler's Germany and Nazism has been indicted and 25 people tried before the court. Serbs, in an enormous number, have been accused of thousands, they do not know how or how to return to the Republic of Croatia. The Croats tell them and say, "Come back if you are not guilty." What does that mean? Who has legal certainty from a citizen who once lived in Croatia, avoided the bullet and Ustasha knife, now to return to the Republic of Croatia. So, a large number of citizens are suffering today. It's a huge number, close to 21 thousand Serbs accused of war crimes. If that number is added, that these defendants had and had three family members, then you have a figure of nearly 100,000 citizens who cannot return, because they have no security for their existence, they have no security for their lives, nor for their property. I therefore propose, Mr Minister, as an MP for the SRS, that, with the Ministry of Justice, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior, you request a final report on the list of persons charged and brought against them by an international red, and this dark, arrest warrant. When we get this information, today it is said from respected colleagues in this House, I believe that you have listened very carefully, and I believe that you have information, that these citizens have left about 30 billion euros worth of property, Croatians do not need to be given it. It's not theirs. What Serbs had and what they acquired there, according to international law, have the right to their property and it must be returned to them. It is now only a matter of skill, courage, skill and determination of the government of the Republic of Serbia to resolve this issue. In recent years, however, little has been said about what the government requires. Which is not one resolution in Croatia that all citizens who have been expelled to Storms, as well as in their beastly actions, can return and return to their property. In the end, I want to say, and to underline, that the state of Serbia has not helped the refugees who fled under the knife and the bullet and the Ustasha, and the Muslim and the Shiptar. Here we include both Kosovo and BiH, and Slovenia and Croatia. The government has to show determination. The government is right, but it has an obligation. There have been a lot of speeches yesterday, but I must draw attention to Mr. Minister, in Panchev, it is not possible for refugees who live in apartments built by the humanitarian organisation HABITAT, by the means of the Republic and the means of local self-government, to buy these apartments, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees, among other things, that discrimination against Serbs. So local self-government towards Serbs has more discrimination than foreign citizens. If the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that Serbian citizens and foreign citizens have the right to gain the right to move in the Republic of Serbia, then they must have refugees, especially refugees living in Serbia. Especially those living in Šumadia and living in the area of the AP Vojvodina. There's a huge empty space. A lot of problems can be solved there. It's where Serbs should settle. It's where Serbs should be helped. There, an ethnic picture of Serbs should be changed, that Serbs should not be allowed to be persecuted, that everyone is working with them and that they do not enjoy the rights in our country that even foreigners enjoy. When it comes to these injuries and those hostile... (President: you only have one minute left. Please bring the end. Thank you, I'll be done. I'm sorry. When it comes to the persecution of the Serb people, I will only remind you, in the spring of 1942, running outside the Ustasha Kama, 12 thousand refugees arrived on the left bank of Drina. It was a Serb people from the Sokolac, Princess, Han Pijesk and Rogatica areas. Almost two-thirds of these refugees, mostly women, girls, children and old people... (President: Time. Just one more sentence, if you'll excuse me. Let me finish. (President: Of course you do, just get it over with. ) Everyone who heard was deeply etched in the memory of the creepy and true story, that six daughters of Sima Radovic from the village of Zverovina, grasping hands, jumped into the cold, wavy, freezing Drina, to avoid rapes and slaughters from Ustasha and Muslim beasts. When the unhappy mother saw it, freaked out, she let go of her parents' last cry and threw herself behind her children in a cold, freezing Drina. Well, that's what we shouldn't forget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38186	Thank you. Dear Members of the Parliament, since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, before I conclude the search in principle, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right to comply with Article 93, want the word. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Mr. Velimir Ilic, first, then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38187	Dear President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the honourable Members of the People. I listened to the argument today and yesterday. Yesterday, a crowded hall, from the ruling coalition, extremely many speakers drilling here into the chest, show, prove the EU, and already who they wanted to show and prove, what the Serbian people did, what they did, how they did. There are no more Dwarfs here today. He doesn't care about the subject. There's no Mecca. There aren't many who were so loud yesterday, so much fighting, so much saying, that they're listening to these earthquake stories we've just heard, they're not interested in this. This is another story that interests Serbia. I am now surprised that there are no MPs of Moravac, the Shumadinac, from southern Serbia, Western Serbia, to speak on the subject today. They don't care about that either. They did their job. They voted tonight. Today, all agencies report – adopted, Serbia condemns, etc., maltene some modern-day type of genocide, contemporary. That's cool now, as these young people say. The dead are satisfied, resting and enjoying themselves today. However, this story that is being told today about crimes that have been committed against Serbs about crimes against the families who have been exiled, banished to "Blash", "Storm", which have been bombed, in columns killed, and who have come to Serbia without a trace of anything, with binds, with some old tractor and trailer and who live here in Serbia, I apologize for the expression "cergars", where and who brings them to that trailer and tractor. That's what Serbia allowed today. She didn't take care of them, she didn't help. That's why we've been trying to get this law into the process before, and it's supposed to go in, it's been waiting a long time. I don't know why Malten Dulic held him for two years. Today, those ministers who are responsible should come here. Thank Mr. Dacic, who is least responsible, he needs some papers to give to these people, and the rest, but here he was supposed to sit primarily Mr. Ljajic, ministers who use the misfortune and misery of this people, refugees and share some stoves, Texas pants and other things, just to vote and make some political parties. They all cheated on them. One promised, vote for us, the other promised, the third. Now this era, we give you a little package, we come into a collective accommodation, we give you a stove, two meters of wood, and that's a policy that's run from one part of this government, I'm not going to tell you the whole government. It is an incorrect and humiliating policy for those people who came here to Serbia and burdened Serbia. They freed their jobs in Croatia, freed them in Sarajevo. How many Serbs came from Sarajevo? Thousands of jobs, thousands of apartments. Here, now they've given them all the blank warrants so they'll never come back, because, for safety, they put them in custody first. I was saddened to see the president of Serbia strut, clap every hour of Croatia's president, and he didn't ask him – sir, this issue has to be solved. This was also for Mesic to solve Sanader, and for all who were in power. Without this, you cannot enter the EU and you need to push the EU, you cannot enter as a democratic state until you resolve this issue. People have left centuries, generations that have worked and lost nothing and come here to Serbia with no bounds, no jobs, no flats, no half a family left in the battlefields, etc. And they're genocide now, and those who did this have no talk of crime and genocide?- I'm sorry. So please don't play with that other declaration. It was said Thursday that there would be a session, so let's see, here, tomorrow is Thursday, but, please, this is a very serious story. How much this burden for Serbia shows statistics. A family when they come to Belgrade, to Nis, to Kragujevac, to Cačak, to Piroth, anywhere, right away that city costs, you know how much, Mrs. Djukic? One hundred thousand euros! They are looking for school, kindergarten, parking, street, water connection, electricity, need to expand the trafo station, sewerage, etc. One hundred thousand euros, when a family comes into one town from another place that burdens the city. How many thousands of people came and how many million euros this Serbia cost, because they came and left their property where they came from and looking for a job. Do you know how much the job costs today? I remember when I was in the government, we did this data, we examined it, and exactly, the family when, for example, it came to the City of Belgrade costing this country 100,000 euros to survive, to survive, to function. How much poverty has been put into Serbia by the arrival of thousands of people who have left all their belongings in other parts? How can we treat them so passively now and observe it all, not solve any of these problems? Children born here as refugees are now serving the army, gentlemen. No one can be a refugee their whole life. That status must be resolved. So, how to charge for property, is it such a way to banish people without anything, and does the EU, which respects these European laws, think about it? Gentlemen of Parliament, there is no Mr Micunovic, he is very often in these contacts. Did he talk on the subject? Do you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when you go somewhere to talk about this topic? This is an extremely important topic for Serbia. Some cities were completely destroyed, such as the Kings, Nis, Kragujevac, Chačka, Valjev, and not to count any more, where a quarter of the population came in, 30% of the people moved in as refugees and all of a sudden. You know what it means when you win, I was president of the community when refugees came in, in the school year at once 5,000 students? Five thousand high school and elementary school students, 3,000 kindergarten children, 8,000 unemployed workers. How to survive? You need to survive, you need to expand the plumbing, the sewers, the entire settlements to build, houses, etc. The evasive faces are also very prominent people, such as the officers of the Yugoslav Army, police officers, police generals, armies, colonels and various high acts that are gentlemen, but they have come and now live here miserablely and work on fleas to survive. Therefore, this is a major problem for Serbia and cannot be kept quiet, this problem must be solved. Many who put their heads in the sand have to solve this, and the primary ministry is responsible for this. Why hasn't Krkobic worked for two years now, here, now we're waiting for some pensions from Slovenians? They spent their working hours in Croatia, Sarajevo, Slovenia, etc. and did not receive a pension. That's what we had to do. You can't wait and do nothing. (President: Time. The hardest part is that when a man loses an apartment, no job, no half a family, there is no happy family that has no roof over his head. Please, Mr. Minister, when I was Minister, I built a building in Chačka, construction started during the war, for the evasive police and the military. In two years, she's finished completely, standing unmoved. There are dozens of them in Serbia. Why did the military faces, escaped, exiled, why the escaped police officers and primarily the children of the fighters who died in the past wars don't take care and move in empty objects that stand empty, completely finished for years, I'm sure? There are many poor people among these, very few who profited in wars. So please, take all the necessary steps to... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... These problems solved and solved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38188	Mr. Ilichu, it's known I'm telling the truth. We'll have a college session tomorrow, 12:00, as promised, with the subject as promised. You can gain insight into all the reports, since you asked me if I was talking about these topics, with all the communication reports that I have in my office as President of the Assembly, of course it's one of the most important topics that I've been informed about as a doctor and as a professor, and it's from a city where there are 12% of refugees. In Čačka there is 2%, in Kragujevac there is 12%, so, of course, we have insight into all the problems you've been talking about. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji, so do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38189	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the truth is, we talked about this subject as much as we talked about yesterday's subject. The truth is, and some of the MPs who were called spoke about this subject, as Meho Omerovic did. Iscite works, by this law government and this Parliament, by adopting this law, in fact, are trying in a very effective way to solve the fundamental problems of the refugees, and that is primarily the issue of housing. This government, not the government in which some were in, submitted this bill to this congregation. The parliamentary majority, not some previous parliamentary majority, will adopt this law, so that people who, as a consequence of the events in the former Yugoslavia, have had the misfortune of having to leave their homes and try to find peace in Serbia, find a chance for their children and find some chance to get home here. Maybe we should really ask a question, but I don't think that would be delicious, why some previous government didn't try to solve this problem this way. But what matters to us is that all those who cannot return to the places where they are exiled, all those who do not want to return to those places, we deeply believe that the state is bound to allow them to stay in this country and find a chance for themselves and their families in this country. We do not view them as a burden on Serbia, we do not measure them by how much they cost the state of Serbia because we are starting with the fact that every man, every member of our people and every citizen has the right to equal chances and decent conditions for life. We are building a state that will be responsible for such individuals and for all these other individuals. The truth is, of course, that the president of the state in all his international activities advocates the exercise of the rights of these people, not only in the countries from which they are exiled, but in favour of international institutions and other international partners, seeking a way for those who wish to return there and those who are damaged to receive just compensation. The truth works also, this assembly of parliament ratified the agreement with Slovenia after many, many years and it would be a real question why some previous government in which Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister did not ratify the contract with the Slovenians, as even a few years ago could provide more than 10,000 families with pension rights. The government has sent this act to this assembly, and this parliamentary majority adopted the act, bearing in mind just about every single destiny of man and his family and the need to give him the right that he lost by unfortunate circumstances as soon as possible. And, the truth works, one more thing. We support this law. We support him and vote for him because he opens up the perspective of people who have had to leave their hearths, their homes, their apartments, open up the possibility of solving elementary issues in a permanent way, which is a question of housing, so that they can buy out their property, by being able to get credit on favourable terms, by being able to get material in various other ways, by allowing them to own their own roof over their own head in this country, which, perhaps, by policy, by force, by accident as their last address. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38190	Thank you. I made one mistake when I said I scheduled a college tomorrow for 12:00. I made an appointment for 11:00. I'm sorry, and I'm asking you to respect your mistake. (Employor Velimir Ilic, from the place: Replica. They are entitled only to those who have not used, there is no replica now, this is a phase in which only representatives of parliamentary groups who have not used their right to say what they wanted on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Buha has a word. Here you go. Mr. Ilic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38191	I believe that Article 104 has been injured that there has been an insult from the Parliament of the Colundji. The truth is, to repeat her expression, I'm going to be very specific. The lady forgets that they were in power from 2000 to 2004, when they were the biggest donations and when nothing was done for refugees. It is true that the previous government, in which I was, made this law, but did not enter the assembly procedure, did not arrive, and thank you for putting it now, but you waited two years. Mollo was two years ago. The truth is that, as the lady says, 4,856 apartments were made during my term, primarily for refugees and socially endangered, the HABITAT program, just about 1000 apartments, not to mention, in Međa, Jasa Tomic, there was a destruction of houses, because they were weak, in Nis they were built objects for military faces, for police officers etc. The truth is, this government hasn't made a single apartment in two years, at least I haven't heard. Let Dulic say how many apartments. The truth works, again, ma'am, in Kosovo, that government I was in made 560 houses and apartments for returnees to Kosovo. The truth is, this government is nothing. Let's take Gracanica, Mr. Gilas and I have been opening together, part of it was made from the NIP in Zubi's stream, so that I don't list all the places, I can also list them if you're interested, Mr. Gilas and I have been building something with cities and in various ways. This government promised and didn't do anything. How many jobs in these two years have one of the refugees, and the truth works, very much during that other government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38192	The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38193	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, respected refugees, we have a very important law ahead of us, but it will essentially bring nothing new, given that there are only two important continents in it. One is the conclusion of the Organisational structure of the Refugee Commissioner, what has not been resolved by the previous law, and the other is the sale of assets, which is the practical state of dwellings and houses, which the Republic of Serbia has done and what the funds have come under donations. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, we see here the minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Police, who has been patiently waiting here, has done his part of the job, however, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, jurisdiction in the area of refugee, refugee issues lies at this moment on two institutions, which are under the provisions of the Law on Government, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of refugee issues, and under the provisions of the Law on Ministry, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. None of the other ministers are here. The president of the assembly was required, in accordance with the provisions of Article 87, to invite the competent ministers to attend this session. Here he was called, as far as we can see from the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees and proposed as an authorised representative of the Government, Ivica Dacic, First Vice-President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, and Commissioner Vladimir Cucic, Commissioner for Refugees Svetlana Velimirovic, Deputy Commissioner for Refugees, and Daniela Popović-Roko, Assistant Commissioner for Refugees. I don't know that lady. The lady couldn't be here because there's no legal stand for her to be here, because there's no legal stand for her appointment. The 1992 Refugees Act doesn't know an assistant commissioner. How the Commissioner did it and who did it should review the government. Furthermore, when we talk about jurisdiction, we must say that jurisdiction in the area of refugee issues and refugee issues, problems, lies on the entire state structure. What does that come from? From the provisions of the Constitution, I will read to you Article 13, "The Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. ''Since the issues of return, seized, usurped, rights, issues related to abroad mean that all the republican authorities that have certain powers in that area are competent. As regards the provisions of the Law on Refugees now in force in 1992, there is a very wide-ranging legal formulation in Article 4 of that Law that says: "The Republic of Serbia provides collective protection of personal, property and other rights and freedom of refugees and provides them with international legal protection in a way that has been established for its citizens. ''I responsibly claim that state structures, state institutions of the Republic of Serbia do nothing on collective protection, as it stands here, with personal property, property rights and other rights and with the freedoms of refugees and says, ''provides international legal protection in a way that has been established for its citizens. ''If the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia had done so since 1990, we would have had a evasive procedure today and we would not have refugees today. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia on refugee issues in international relations do nothing. If I were right, I would read you the answer to one parliamentary question, I received it on 14 November 2008, under the number 05-94660/08, where it is said: "The Commissioner for Refugees in Co-operation with the Foreign Ministry is conducting intensive foreign policy activities, pointing to problems and seeking help and support to continue the Sarajevo process. "Please, the Commissioner for Refugees is conducting a procedure and, as he says here, "intense foreign policy activities." Where, in what law do you find it? And so on, so we don't go deeper into law school. What's the point? The bottom line is that refugees are looking for what's theirs, they're looking for their property back, property and social rights, and nothing more. What is tragic for this country, all the burden of refugee has fallen on this country. What about Croatia? What was done to restore the rights of the Serbs in Croatia? The situation in BiH is, colleagues have talked about it, I will not now open the issue, far, far more favourable. It is the most unfavourable in Croatia. None of the rights of collective rights, the right to citizenship, the right to equality, constitutionality, the right to equal use of language and letters, the right to religion, etc., none of these were actually in Croatia. Next, property rights. The return of property is only in gaps. I'll just mention the data you can find on international humanitarian organisations. During the period "Storm", especially after "Storm" over 30,000 residential, residential and industrial buildings were burned. The colleagues said that during the 1990s to 1992, outside Republika Srpska's territory, about 11,000 buildings, mostly explosive devices, bombs, etc., physical repressions on property were burned. What about the pensions that Serbs were supposed to receive between 1991 and 1998? According to the Krajisnik Pensioners' Association here in Belgrade, there is data, their calculation of what the Krajisniks lost. It's data in 2009 with tight interest, all that's not paid. They have an official request made to our government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia – over 18 billion euros. Similar information has been provided by the Association in Vukovar, the Pensioners' Association, which has reached some figures, which is data from last year, about 17 billion euros. When we talk about apartments, where is the impeccability of the international community and of Croatia, but also of these authorities? We don't know exactly how many Serbs' apartments have been taken away, how many tenants' rights have been taken away. Why? Because we haven't made enough effort to sum it up, subtract it, etc. And to one apartment, in one square. For 20 years, we have been talking about sequestered tenant rights, no apartment in Croatia has been returned. In Slovenia, citizens, Serbs and Slovenians and all others were entitled to buy and dispose of the property, regardless of its social property. This was the case in BiH and was the case in Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, but only in Croatia. But who? Serbs did not have the right to enjoy household law and to have that household law in the sense of property. Croatians turned real property rights, resulting from household law, into humanitarian law and thus closed the right to return to household rights. And never again, since we haven't done anything to get him back from here, we can't expect anything from it, because there's no active policy. You, Mr. Dacic, signed this right here. You're pushing the Refugee Commissioner just because those who have to be bound by the law and by the Constitution to be the bearers of the jurisdiction and care for the return of the refugee rights, you left it to the Commissioner for Refugees. I respect Mr Vladimir Cukic, but the Commissioner for Refugees can't do that. How can he lead foreign policy activities? It's the most stupid thing I've ever read in your act, but there's more of that nonsense, and I'm gonna try to point it out. We've heard a lot of stories here about how we're going to deal with this law and help refugees, etc. With this law, refugee status ends, no more new refugees. We're moving on to the asylum law, asylum law. So a year and two and no more refugees. We've completed our refugee procedure. What does the state do to help refugees in a material sense? It is her obligation to cross all of this across Croatia, because genocide has been done against the Serbian people. I've used this syntagm here a dozen times that it's genocide and ethnic cleansing, and I'm right, here's a copy of the countersuit that this state and this government have brought to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The counter-claim shall consist of two parts. In the first part, it is proposed to the Court to reject all the claims in the case of the Republic of Croatia, etc. I won't read any more. The second part suggests that the court determines that the Republic of Croatia violated obligations under the Convention during and after Operation Storm in August 2005, committing its intention to destroy ethnic Serbs. Because of the public and the citizens of Serbia, when we talk about destruction, I quote this from the provisions of our own countersuit, then it's about genocide. It means destroying ethnic Serbs living in the Krajina region, in Croatia and doing the following works: ''killing members of that group, causing serious physical and mental injuries of members of that group and deliberately subjecting them to such living conditions leading to their destruction. '' Alternatively, this is a legal concept, because in the legal system, especially in the case of lawsuits and countersuits, there is an alternative requirement, which states that the Republic of Croatia has violated the obligations of the Convention by planning the execution of genocide. So here in our countersuit, the first thing that was said was that there was destruction, that there was killing members of the group, causing serious physical and mental injuries to the members of the group, and that it was all done with imagination, and it failed and still failed to punish the perpetrators of the crime genocide against the Serb ethnic community that lived in the Krajina region. You will tomorrow, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, have a college and probably conjecture a future declaration in which, you will – you will not, you must place a genocide on the Serbs. This countersuit makes that clear. If you don't point that out, I'm not going to go with the more difficult qualifications, but this is a game, this is going to be an abuse. Because what you gave the world's highest international instance, which is the International Court of Justice, is where you said genocide was committed. You must indicate in that declaration that genocide has been committed, and you must not do so. But you'll have to, this binds you. Let's get back to helping the refugees. I will read here the answer to one question that I received from the government in 2008, when I asked – how many government authorities are investing in helping refugees, and I specifically focused on the ministry that is responsible, which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, how much of the funds have been allocated, because I have controlled the budget and I have seen that there is no money intended for refugees and internally displaced persons. I received an answer that in 2007 and 2008 it was not allocated from the budget to this ministry to a single dinar. On one of my many questions to the government – what about the donations and how much funding was allocated to donations, how much of the donations were invested in the construction and management programme of refugees and all that concerns refugees, I received the following answer, page 2: "In 2001 to 2007 there were no donations to provide refugees or other categories of population. "One of my questions was -- which was the state body of the Republic of Serbia in charge of refugee issues, which are strategic directions and refugee policy programmes, how much of the state's resources is being allocated to the integration of refugees? I received the following answer to this question: "Despite the country's extremely difficult economic situation, significant financial resources have been invested in finding lasting solutions both in the maintenance and integration of refugees. Most of it was made by funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but with significant assistance from the international community... ''What assistance from the international community, when we realized that from 2001 to 2008, there were no donations to this area? Next: "... but in most of its own resources, around 250m euros have been allocated to the reception and management of refugees." When a number is rounded up like this, then it's arbitrary, then it's said by heart, then it's haired, then it's a fake. If I were right, it says this: "seven thousand eight hundred forty-four housing units are provided through various types of housing." Here today we heard two sources, by representatives of the current government – 3.350, second source – 3,200, colleague Velja said – 4.5 thousand, and here says that 7,844 housing units are provided for refugees. Who's right about that now? What kind of data is that? This is false data. This is the haired data. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in exile, I have sought and insisted here that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia actively work and pressure the Republic of Croatia to return rights -- the right to return, the right to provide pension benefits in the period from 1991 to 1998, actions, and the actions none of you mention, they belong to the Krajisniks, belong to Serbs who have been expelled. This 2007 law, adopted by the assembly, denied the right of the refugee population to take action. Further – Household rights. Household rights must be returned according to the same system as they were returned to Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia, etc. Why are Serbs the only ones to be discriminated against, Serbs from Republika Srpska and Serbs from the Republic of Croatia – 50,000 apartments, that's about three billion euros, only there lies for Serbs. All these funds will be transferred here and Serbia will benefit. When we add it all together, it's worth over 30 billion euros. They don't require refugee status. They're not asking refugees for anything from this country, they're just looking for what belongs to them in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38194	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Let me just say that I think that for this item of the agenda, I have called on an absolutely competent composition of Mr. Dacic's associates, Commissioner Cucic, Minister Dacic, therefore, I think that the composition for this topic was indeed competent and that the debate could have taken place uninterrupted. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38195	I'm joining your proposals that some other ministers be authorized by this law, so you can invite them to discuss in particular. As far as I'm concerned, the Ministry of the Interior, along with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, has some jurisdiction over refugee issues, especially in this so-called. The second-degree organ that we represent. But, unbound by that, I would like to thank you for the debate we had today. I'm sure there's plenty of room for the amendments to be considered and eventually accepted. Serbia is a country with a large number of refugees. Of course, internally displaced persons do not fall into defined status or the word "emergency", because there is a difference, first of all, in whether they are refugees from other countries or whether they are our citizens who are internally displaced persons within our country. I'm sure their fate is hard, both of them. You're right about the fact that when it comes to internally displaced persons, even at the international level, there are no clear rules that talk about it, so there is a difference between refugees and internally displaced persons. And here, too, it seems to me that even no law has defined the position and status of internally displaced persons. But apart from that, we should all take care of their position together. The refugees have had enough in the past. It may have created one feeling among Serbian citizens that these are people who may enjoy certain privileges, even by having refugee status, perhaps because of one small percentage of those who were rich and who continued their wealth here in Serbia and who, like any other war profiteers in these areas, have used them for their wealth. But when we talk about this subject, we should keep in mind tens of thousands of people who today have nowhere to live, living in collective centres, or staying with their friends, relatives, or renting apartments. It is therefore important that, when we have this topic in mind, it is true that we are going, as you said, towards resolving this issue, there are no more refugees in Serbia with refugee status, and the process of their integration in Republika Srpska will surely last for many years. But we must never give up on the goal that whoever can, that the state insists and asks to return to where they are being expelled from or at least that their rights that they have acquired there are being realised, whether they are wages, pensions, whether they are household rights, land, etc. We talked to the Croatian MUP about these arrest warrants, which are primarily on secret lists. It's not up to the MUP, it's up to their D.A.'s office and the Department of Justice. The agreement we have reached in our co-operation, that is, to slowly put an end to these issues and simply renew the processes that were being conducted before, and that people know what their legal status is when they leave. Since I've been listening to you for a long time, and now I have to go, so I'd like to ask Mr. Buh, I have to leave, I don't know if I can leave, so you guys can move on... So far, 636 housing units have been created from the Republika Srpska budget. It was made out of UNHCR donations of 1,655 housing units and was made 636, owned by the municipality, and is scheduled to buy after five to eight years. Based on the money collected from the ransom, it is estimated to be about sixm euros, which could be enough for about a thousand housing units, when it comes to rural homes with a garden, etc. Of course, the budget for these needs will depend on how much it will be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget and on the international donations that go towards it. This year, 12m euros were allocated from the Republika Srpska budget and four and a half million euros from the European budget, and next year, as I was informed by the Commissioner, ninem euros are foreseen from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38196	Mr. Minister, we haven't extended the time. It's 6:00. I'll ask you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38197	Thank you very much. In any case, the amendments you have submitted will be discussed at committee meetings. This is a law that benefits and contributes to solving the life problems refugees have. So I urge you once again to vote, whether or not the amendments will be accepted. I call upon my associates, whether they are from my Ministry or from the Commissioner, to look at, to accept as many amendments as possible, so that the law is accepted as much as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-31-0.u38198	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your associates, for you, Commissioner Cucic. Dear People's MPs, I hereby conclude a principled search. We will work on Tuesday, April 6, 2010 at 10:00 p.m. and continue our work. Let me congratulate you, your families, on behalf of you and all the citizens on the coming Easter holidays. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that 180 MPs attend the session, and to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that 93 MPs are present in the O.R., so there are working conditions. According to Article 88(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, I have also called for the meeting of Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Dejan Radulović, Advisor at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Director of the Privatisation Agency and Branka Radovic, Adviser at the Privatisation Agency. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to a common principle search of 2-5th item of the agenda: –PROGRAMMES OF THE REGIONAL DURING LAWS, LAWS ON FREE AUTHORITIES AND MONEY REFERRED TO IN THE PRIVATION PROCEDURE OF CITIZES, LAWS ON PRIVATION AND PROPOSAL OF THE METROGY LAW CONCERNING THE COMMUNITY DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search under points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Secretary Group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia MP group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of MPs - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Zoran Kasalovic - SPS-JS MP Slobodan Samardzic - Parliamentary Group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, an international MP, Dragan Stevanovic - the SRS Parliamentary Group. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Action and the Monetary Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Privatisation and the Proposal for a Law on Metrology. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Dinkic.
