ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44921	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliaments, the course of the session takes place in accordance with Article 286(2) and before the move to a further debate. Article 286(2) implies that the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may, within a period of up to five minutes of the term of office of the member, speak about the right to request a notice, be held at the meeting of the National Assembly or at a session held on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, to register if they wish to be notified. MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44922	I am asking the Prime Minister, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic, if what the press is carrying today is that our country's security services have made an assessment that it would not be good to hold a gay parade 10. Ten. In 2010, that the assessment of security services is very easy to create major riots and bloodshed on the streets of Belgrade? And I have information that BIA's first management has provided the authorities with that kind of information. Nevertheless, by deafening both its own security services and the countless appeals of its own citizens to delay the gay parade, the Serbian government has decided to maintain it at all costs. You saw the price on the streets of Belgrade. The responsibility for what happened on Sunday on the streets of Belgrade must also be borne by Serbian rule. She was also a co-organizer of gay parades and an instigator to keep her going. Today in the press, we can see that in the very government of the Republic of Serbia there were different opinions, that it was better not to be maintained, to preserve peace in the house, peace on the streets of the city of Belgrade, but it did not occur. To the question of journalists – who decided by name and last name to answer the gay parade, despite the crowd of warnings and their own security services, to maintain, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic replied – how, so I am the top of the country. I interpret it as Mr. Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking Mr. Dacic to deny me if I get it wrong. The very top of the country is Mr. Boris Tadic, who as a girl for all matters and visits, actors and singers, and by agitating to maintain a gay parade. Of course, the assumption is that he did it under pressure from the outside. Is it normal for something, which is certainly not in the tradition of the Serbian people and this state, by force of skill, to force itself and to hold a gay parade at all costs. I repeat, you've seen the price. The government in an extremely bold and rude way has done it to keep the gay parade going. I must briefly quote my great political opponent and vice presidents of the DS and mayor of Belgrade, Mr Dragan Gilas, who said – what we got, we didn't get anything. The country has been defeated. The people are defeated. The police got beat up. A lot of citizens got beat up. Did the gay population get anything? It's not. Is homophobia bigger? I'm afraid so. What did we get? We got this from Jelko Kacin on the outside, and he's banging our slaps and bumps again. If it's what you gentlemen in power wanted, I don't think that's good. Applying to the Constitution, calling for freedom of movement, speech and expression is a good thing, but, please, the independent union of police asks you – gentlemen of the Ministers, why didn't you go to the streets? Soon you will also have a chance at sports events, try to go to the Partizan fans where the Red Star fans are and vice versa. You, gentlemen of the Ministers, you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, Serbia has lost. You didn't get anything. You've got riots about a few hundred people walking around. A lot more people have been hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44923	Five minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go. I'm sorry. The mandated representative for the request for an explanation, i.e. giving an answer, is MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Do you want a word? I'm sorry, the paper's been handed over. Will you check if it is MP Zoran Ostojic or Kenan Hajdarevic? Zoran Ostojić. Excuse me, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44924	My colleagues and colleagues, what happened on Sunday is a disgrace. No doubt everyone here, all the political parties in the Assembly formally condemned violence. But there's one bitter thing left for us, an attempt to relativize what happened, and it's Sunday night. That's why I ask Mirko Cvetkovic directly, because the question I'm going to ask is both the Ministry of Police and the BIA, and ultimately you gentlemen from the DS. It's also about the state's relations. From your party come also dissonant tones and relativization of what happened. On behalf of the LDP, I want Mirko Cvetkovic to answer very clearly. The answer to that – who are the organizers of what has happened. To be fair, we all know that the Pride Parade was just a cause for something else. It was political violence, not for the first time. One who says there has been violence over a parade of pride forgets that there is a Law on Discrimination in this country and that laws must be respected. So, the story of whether or not it's approved is a gay parade is a story about whether this country can respect the laws that we've adopted here or not? Last year she said she couldn't. This year she said she could. Someone has used it as many times so far when no family values were at stake, such as the arrest of Karadzic, Sljivancanin, Milosevic, of Kosovo's declaration of independence, to bring this city down. Therefore, Mr Cvetkovic must answer to his ministers to us – who is the organizer of these gatherings which have occurred? Who paid for the arrival to tell who those faces were connected to? You're not going to convince us that some martyr from "The Scarp" organized all of this, are you? No, I don't. If he turns out to be on his own, it's an attempt, gentlemen of the ruling majority, to hide the real organizers. That's why in the sun with the operational data. A thousand people come to Belgrade to pay for it and organise it, one, even if the president of some defiant "Oscara", which was founded in the 1990s. Do you know where? The House of the Army of Yugoslavia. That organization was founded there. What about ours? What about 1389? What are their relationships with the church and some people from the church? It could be operational data. I know it can be an answer – we can't say that, because investigations are ongoing. No, that this confusion and distraction of the subject and attention from the essence of things, to break up and have to come out with it. It's also in your interest. State, if he's not able to deal with these people this time who want to tear down power on the street, then there's absolutely no state. So let's stop this story -- if it wasn't for a gay parade, there would be no violence on the streets, and you just know that's not true. Come out, gentlemen, with information more operational – who organized it, did you know who paid for it? How is it possible that so much rock, stangley, and all that, is lagging around Belgrade, not knowing? Of course, of course you do. You gentlemen of the SRS, calm down, because when some people were wearing a badge, those hooligans led you. Remember the arrest of Sljivancanin, that Vukic was with them and he was wearing a badge. So, calm down, let me finish. If you're ashamed of it, say it clearly. But let's be serious. What happened was serious and let's be serious. The government must come out, to stop this relativisation of the story, to make it clear to everyone that it is political and political that wants to prevent Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration. What it looks like for police to take a beating to enforce a law banning discrimination in Serbia. So if this doesn't clear up now, then you've missed your chance, gentlemen. It'll come back to you eventually. I'm speaking to you from the ruling majority. That's why the government has to react urgently. We requested an emergency session of the government, the parliament of our Parliament, the Assembly of Belgrade. If you think this can go away—that one man is guilty, then you are wrongfully wrong. This will be at the expense of you, of the state and of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44925	Five minutes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44926	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44927	National MP, during a session seeking explanations and answers from organisations, does not allow any replicas or requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you wish to use the right referred to in Article 286(2), please sign up and use your right to ask a question or ask an explanation. Do you want to? Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another example of how the meetings of the Republika Srpska Assembly are conducted and how the chairman brutally violates his right to assess whether anyone has a right or not. First I asked for a replica, but I'm not allowed to. I've also called the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not allowed to do that either. But nothing unusual about the SRS. She can do anything against her, and the SRS can't do anything, not even stand up to defend the truths that are being brought here. We have, above all, a more important task -- to point to the Serbian public for an attempt on another murder in The Hague tribunal. It will be the 17th death of The Hague tribunal. What is particularly interesting, our public, primarily the official public, is absolutely doing nothing to prevent another murder in The Hague. It's just amazing how much our people have Googled on injustice, how much our government agrees to violate its citizens' rights, even the right to live. For several months now, to remind you, there has been a warrant by the Search Council to examine the health condition of Vojislav Seselj and to determine the diagnosis. Vojislav Seselj faced serious health problems. He's faced tachycardia, arrhythmia, he's got high blood pressure. What's particularly interesting, tachycardia and arrhythmias have occurred in the last few months, when he's been changed therapy and when he's been given some kind of medication. A number of experts and cardiologists have studied all possible facts of these drugs, including those of the unwanted. It has been established, above all, that these medicines can only be used in clinical conditions only. I suppose it's clear to each of you that the Hague prison is not a clinic. Each of you understands how many people have been killed in The Hague. Just to remind you that Slobodan Milosevic, the cause of his death was inadequate medical attention. Everyone knows it, knows it in The Hague and knows our public. Except for the Russian public, the Russian Dum and the official Russia, no one has yet gone to investigate and determine what is going on in The Hague. Why isn't Vojislav Seselj diagnosed by the medical authorities? What's causing his health to get worse? Unequivocally, experts said that the use of these drugs, or this condition in which it is found, could lead to either a stroke or a heart attack. You keep your mouth shut. It is important for you to provide some other rights, but when it is the right to the life of your political opponent, you do not give it the right. Shut up and become accomplices to those in The Hague tribunal who are carrying this out. I'm just asking you a question - how long will you be quiet? What do you think you're doing? Do you think you're allowed to do anything? On October 5th, you can burn Belgrade, you can do it organized with America, the CIA, Western Europe, all that's allowed. You can light up the Assembly, you can turn on the TV, you can break into the police station. Others are not allowed, others are others, but when you work, then everything is allowed to you. That's the problem you've faced and the one you're about to face. What you've done to me looks like a script and someone who's been pulling strings in the background, and some bims in certain places, remind me of some tires burning in 91, 92. (President: five minutes. I guess you'll find the truth. It's best to find whoever organized it, to see the background. But go back a little bit, discover one background, as is the case of the murder of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44929	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. Members of the People's Parliament, I ask you now to stop breaking Article 106, Section 3 and Article 107, and to remove texts and transparency from the bench of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also ask you not to throw away until I explain that no one is allowed to act beyond the rules laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that everyone has the right to express their political position, but that everyone has the obligation to maintain the dignity of this Assembly and that no one has any more rights than anyone else, so that it does not appear that the question of parliamentary freedoms and rights is to put transparency on parliamentary benches and act in such a way as to violate the reputation of this assembly. Please remove the transparencys. If that's not the case, then I'm forced to say measures based on Article 109, last indent. To say the measures. I declare the measure of caution: MP Dragan Todorovic, MP of the people, Aleksandar Martinović, MP Sulejman Spaho, MP Filip Stojanović, MP of the people, Momir Markovic, MP Bojan Mladenovic, MP of the people Mirko Munjic, MP of Dusan Marić, MP of the people, Tomislav Ljubenović, MP of the people, Lidija Dimitrijevic, MP of the people, Radisa Ilic, MP Nikola Savic. National MP Nikola Savic has removed the transparency. Thank you. He follows the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and he is not given the measure of admonition. National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, she was given a warning measure. National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic removes the transparency after she has been given a warning measure, but remains a warning measure because she believes she can joke with the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Nikolic throws it away. I warn you not to throw it away so I don't have to give you a warning measure to which I'm obliged. National MP Zoran Nikolic throws – free. I issue a warning measure to Parliamentarian Zoran Nikolic for violating order at the National Assembly session. MP Jadranko Vukovic, I give you a warning measure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, since the inscription is on the table, I am checking whether it is the same as the inscriptions of other members. Yes, I give a warning measure. Please remove the inscriptions that violate the reputation of the National Assembly after the first measure has been made, and you consider that you have the right of MPs who do not have other MPs. Will you remove the inscriptions? No, I don't. I give a second warning to MP Dragan Todorovic, MP Filip Stojanovic. There's a sign in front of you and I'm asking you to remove it. People's Messenger, either remove the inscription or you have a second warning left, you choose. Choose whether to remove the label. I ask the National Assembly to enter and remove inscriptions that do not belong in the National Assembly from a place where MPs do not sit, or from the places from which the MPs have moved, so that it is not obvious that they are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the violation of order and peace. National MP Dragan Todorovic, please remove the inscription that violates the members of 106 and 107. Since you refuse to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give you the measure of confiscation of words. We're continuing our work. Do any of the other MPs wish to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that no MP has reported that he is justifiably absent from attending, or that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National Assembly. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in details of the 4th and 5th points of the agenda – the draft air traffic law and the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters, the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, next to the representative of the proposal Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure, called for the sittings to attend: Slavoljub Vukićić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Miodrag Miljkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure, Vanja Škobić, Secretary of the Aviation Control Agency and Nebojsa Starčević, Director of Civil Aviation. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AIR COOPERATION LAW (resumption in particular) National MP Miroslav Markicevic subsequently applied to the electronic system. I asked clearly if anyone wanted a word. You weren't reported. You'll get your word. Miroslav Markicevic, since the right of MPs to use the word set out in Article 268(2) is unhinged, and that I understand that you have been distracted by the inappropriate behaviour of a group of MPs who have interrupted you from hearing the course of the session, please. Miroslav Markicevic has the right to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44930	The Honorable Vice President was not distracted by my colleagues from the SRS, but it often happens that these last two places in the electronic system are not working. So I'm using my parliamentary right to ask some questions and request a notice. I request a notice from the justice ministry, the High Court of Justice, from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. I would like to warn the citizens of Serbia and all those who may not have heard that yesterday, Ilija Jurisic, a resident of Tuzla, with great pomp and joy, unfortunately, and the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, was released. In Tuzla, he was welcomed as a folk hero. What kind of message is that to the citizens of Serbia, I want to say from this place, first of all to the Serbs, because the man was charged with the death of 51 JNA soldiers. If an indictment that apparently fell, if it was wrong, I ask on behalf of the Serbian citizens that the War Crimes Prosecutor, especially his deputy, is a simple clown who laughed yesterday, if they did not write the indictment, to resign immediately, not to play with the families of 51 killed in a monstrous way, which all Serbian citizens could see on video many times, in a fraud of murdered children from 18-19 years of age. Is that also a gift to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton today when the holy day is for you from the ruling coalition? We saw from the statement by Police Minister Dacic, that maintaining the Pride Parade was practically a political decision and today in the media he said that the state summit had made a decision despite our security services' assessment for months that what happened in Belgrade could happen. Thank God no one lost their lives. I ask you a question to all of us, and to the public, and to the authorities and to the opposition, is respect for one human right, and even to the law of the assembly of those who are different, which I do not dispute, is it worth a drop of human blood and human life? To understand that New Serbia respects the laws and those it does not like, I ask the public prosecutor and that spokesman Tom Zoric, since the State Secretary in resignation Mr Marko Karadzic said that the Minister of Human and Minority Rights has reported him to the Prime Minister that he is gay, is that not then a violation of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination? What are you waiting for from the ruling coalition, what is the prosecutor waiting for? And the chairman's position was to be responded. So, right away, the Minister of Minority and Human Rights needs to be prosecuted, he reports to his secretary of state that he's gay and you're telling us about respect for human rights. That's one thing I want to tell you. Now I want to tell you something as a parent. The following year, these children in prison should not come out, third calls should come out, I'm ashamed I wasn't in Belgrade, however you accused New Serbia and some parties of organising. We didn't organize anything, when we organized it, then you'll see what it looks like. Next year I'll be on the streets of Belgrade, not beating these kids. I condemn only those who have stolen and committed apparent physical violence. There's 240 in custody, and you say there were six thousand. What do you think when it's 60,000, 160,000, 260,000, then what are we going to do, arrest all those kids, and that the war criminals who killed 51 Serbian soldiers in Tuzla, we're going to play along with the cache, the chatter, the deputy war crimes prosecutor who mocks the families and mothers of these heroes, the martyrs who have thus lost their lives. Everyone who wonders in this country needs to think about what I said. I said and saved my soul. Those kids that were in Belgrade yesterday, they're our kids, they're the sons of the five-eyed, they need to be talked to, they need to give the kids a chance to work, to school, not just to arrest. Don't think that's the answer. They'll get eight years, right? And we'll let the war criminal go with the pomp. Think about what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44931	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No MP of the SRS since the beginning of today’s session has in any way violated order in the National Assembly, nor has it violated any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr Dragan Todorovic, in the most polite manner, asked the question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and then Mrs Gordana Comic, without any legal basis in the Rules of Procedure, tried to put political terror into effect in the National Assembly, and to ban SRS MPs from making the most legitimate possible way, instructing the local and world public to prepare a new murder of a Serb in The Hague. I beg you, Mrs. Comic, find me in the Rules of Procedure, where does it say that what the SRS did is forbidden? Also, I ask you, with what right do you apply the double arches in the National Assembly? There's an MP from the DS who, when he opens his laptop, on the back of that laptop is an image of the former president of the DS. Is that a violation of order in the National Assembly? Is that what one SRS MP protested against? It's not. Then why do you prevent SRS MPs from, in a civilized way, democratically, in a human, in a Christian way, from trying to present to the government of Serbia, its representatives, fellow MPs, means of public information that Vojislav Seselj is indeed the head of The Hague tribunal and that his basic human right to be treated is violated and that he has adequate health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44933	Two minutes, thank you. There is no violation of Article 27, on the contrary, I take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I quoted which members of the Rules of Procedure were injured and why they were injured. If any of us did not listen carefully, I refer you to a stenogram and you will see the basis for warning, and then notices for insisting on violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am talking about the 107th position of our Rules of Procedure, because indeed in the harshest way Mrs. Comic has hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, by injuring the dignity of the SRS parliamentary group. You, I'm talking about the regime, not about you personally, allowed Belgrade to be destroyed on Sunday on behalf of some equality, and here you make a drastic distinction between the MPs, and that's not your first time. Here, the citizens of Serbia can see "stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj", it's a banner that we wrote... Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44935	National MPs, the reason for the reminders, was the inappropriate setting up of banners in the National Assembly Hall. You do it again, I give you a second warning. The MP asks when she committed a misdemeanor for a second warning. That was 30 seconds ago, showing transparency. In consultation with the secretary, it is easy to say that you did not have a transparency that spoke about the subject at times when other colleagues held that transparency on the benches, in violation of the reputation of the National Assembly. In that case, the measure, based on Article 109, is the last indent, which I am now telling you, is the first warning. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs, please don't throw away. The reasoning you have begun to give yourself has been interrupted by a real offense, which has caused other MPs to have already received warnings and thus forced me to give you a warning measure, because all MPs must be in the same position in breaching the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44936	Mrs. Comić, at the beginning, how many warnings do I have? I didn't hear you explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44937	I'll let you know, MP, but I think you should take care of it, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44938	So I don't have any warning, right? Good, so I know what I did overnight. So I haven't earned any notice overnight. Mrs. Komic, I would like you to take the Rules of Procedure, take a look at Rule 103 and pay attention to Article 107(2). I refer to that member and that attitude. And to explain what I believe you've committed a serious, brutal, hysterical and eerie violation of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure. Now let me explain it to you. Be careful, the practice of the European Parliament, the practice of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, enables any MP, a delegate, who is not satisfied to point out some of his written parliament and thus influences his colleagues, the public, the media, to draw attention to something that is alarming. There's a phone book somewhere. I don't want to go any further. So that kind of message, which goes in a visual sense, is more unacceptable to my feelings than the message I get from a "retor" that, when it opens up a computer, something scares me. You show selectivity here, you show that the word "Shessel" is forbidden in Serbian, and other words are merciful. You show that you do not meet the basic conditions, you have no sense of tolerance, of understanding. I totally get it. There used to be a "Condom vs. Cordon" action, so now there's a resistance man...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44939	Two minutes, thank you. There is no breach of article 107, nor was the way I warned you, taking care of the agenda, was and in any way offensive. It is not allowed to violate the congregation’s reputation, and all MPs have equal rights. If any MP took more rights for himself, it would involve discrimination against other MPs. The MPs are probably not aware of whether or not they are, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly expressly prohibits it. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44940	If you'll excuse me, Mrs. Comic, I'd like to appeal to Article 107 of Section One that you violated...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44941	People's MPs, they're not allowed to repeat the same violation of the Rules of Procedure twice. Thank you. National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44942	Thank you, Vice President. What happened back 15 minutes ago, I'm advertising the violation of the 107th and the dignity of the Assembly, is proof that you're pushing problems under the carpet. Mrs. Komic, Mr. Todorovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44943	People's MP, the Rules of Procedure forbid you to repeat an injury already said by the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44944	The reason for my injury is different than their explanation, I refer to the same member, but not with the same arguments, Mrs. Comic. I didn't get a warning, you can't interrupt me and take my word for it. According to the Rules of Procedure, you can only take your word for it to whoever received the warning. Madam President, can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44946	Please, give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44947	You need to reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44948	So, Madam President, SRS MPs have been carrying this banner all last week, keeping it there and no one has responded that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure and it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's not a distraction. What did Mr. Todorovic say? He said that the burning of the Parliament on October 5th is the same thing as this, he was equating, and then the second MP said that these are five-eyed children, say, maybe the children of those who threw flowers at the tanks. Gentlemen, he was now from your party chairing, instead of reacting to it, instead of continuing that topic that is important, we are now going to Seselj and the punishment, which is suddenly the biggest problem, and you are letting 5 October, when your member is running the Assembly, so shamelessly mud and you are not responding, neither does she nor says – wait, Mr. Todorovic, you are violating the dignity of this Assembly when you are equating hooligans and foreign agents who burned Belgrade, who knows what purpose, to prevent, say, the arrival of Hillary Clinton, because it may not suit someone, but not in Serbia, but outside Serbia, with five October and a struggle for Serbia's democratisation and for the creation of European Serbia. Now their transparency is the worst thing in the Assembly! It's not, gentlemen. That's how you behave, under the carpet, and then it happens to you, instead of saying it -- you can't say it, you're breaking dignity, she's caught up with transparency and a real circus for 15 minutes. Who's that bothering? Do you mind if their transparency stood there last week and the lady was in charge of the session? Was he in the way then? No, it's just to remove a subject that doesn't suit you, and that topic, gentlemen, must suit you, because you are responsible, you are power. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I know you have conflicting feelings when it comes to October 5th, but I am speaking to the ruling majority and the DS, from which Mrs. Comic is from. This is inadmissible, to speak like this, without reacting and staying away.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44949	Time. Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44950	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of Article 106(2). Rules of Procedure: "No one can interrupt a speaker or warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure." The Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Comic, has brutally violated the Rules of Procedure in the last few days by excluding microphones from the MPs when they speak, not allowing any MP to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ostojić now pointed to another violation of the Rules of Procedure. I must tell you, Mrs. Comic, that in one day, in the course of two or three speeches, there may be more injuries to article 107. Mr Ostojić pointed to something else, so Article 106. You could have interrupted the gentleman who evened out October 5th and what happened on Sunday, who talked about those people who set fire to Belgrade, who had kidnapped the police, who really tried their best to take blows on behalf of the state, evened those who attacked, who were trying to kill the participants of the parade, called them children who needed help. I'm sorry, please, it's the killers who hurt 200 people hard and the cops' change and we need to talk about it, and not, as Mr. Ostojić said, to push it under the carpet and deal with a group of MPs because they've been doing something for a week, but now it's been a problem just to get this topic off the agenda. We really want to talk about what happened on Sunday. No matter what political parties have announced about this, one with a late day, because it has a regular press conference Monday, few politicians have spoken clearly about it. I have to say that one of them is the president of the LDP, the other is the president of the SPS, who named it and clearly pointed to problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44951	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44952	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to call on several members of the Rules of Procedure, namely, article 27, which you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, have violated in point 2. Article 27 says you should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't take care of it, first of all, for the first reason I'm going to explain it. Namely, when Mrs. Comic began the anti-business process, she intended, and later applied, to warn the SRS MPs, and we did not violate any dignity, because only mentioning the name Vojislav Seselj, who is a certified Serbian hero, is raising the dignity of this Assembly. So it's not a demeaning assembly. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I must tell the public that I called you from the vice president's post on the phone and you said that you would soon come to the hall and I have informed you that Mrs. Comic is going to do something that will stir up the passions in the Assembly for no reason, because we are telling her, not DS, not to you who are in power in Serbia, because Professor Vojislav Seselj does not expect any help from you, he, on the basis of the indictment you wrote, went there to defeat The Hague tribunal and he has already done so. Do you see what this badge says here: "Winner", on other badges says "Serbian hero", "Freedom of Seselj", "Stop The Hague tyranny". What do you want now, to go from one MP to another and take off our badges? We carry it near our heart, because truth, justice and the struggle for the freedom of the Serbian people are in our hearts. This was taught by Prof. Vojislav Seselj and no violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor by Mrs. Komic's best behavior will prevent us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44953	You can't use the term "best behavior" and there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44954	Madam President, I just want to give a brief answer to some colleagues who imputed to me that I was muddying October 5th. If no one else, Chacans in Chačka, knows how I feel about October 5th, but I want to say that we all, first of all as people and as MPs, need to be principled, in order for the citizens to understand us, especially the youth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44955	Just focus on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and say which member, please explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44956	I'm explaining Article 104, Madam President. So, to be principled, if there's something violence and there's violence going on somewhere, then let's condemn every violence and anyone else to do it. This is where my LDP colleague apparently said some words to me. He was supposed to pick up when there was violence in New Market. Police in Novi Pazar are not hit with ping-pong balls and Styrofoam. Are the cubes or cracks in Pazar softer than in Belgrade, Mr. Marash? Then your leader hired the people who were committing violence against the police in the New Market to be released. That's why, because of the double arches, gentlemen, that's why the youth is rebelling because he sees some injustice. So I condemn violence on anyone and on the police in Belgrade. It's a tragedy that people who think the same thing about the Pride Parade, and the police and that youth, and someone skillfully designed it. As Mr. Dacic said on last night's show -- it's a political decision, we agree with you, and Mr. Homen said he agrees with New Serbia, that 90% of citizens are against maintaining the Pride Parade, but that this is a political decision, today, we see in "Pres", Mr. Dacic says, the state summit. So, because of the political decision, I repeat, the state summit needs someone to lose their head in Belgrade despite security assessments given by the authorities. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44957	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, especially of Rule 104. You'll have to take a look at this new rules of procedure. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44959	I'm sorry, you don't have a word, you've been taken from me. There's no basis for replication. [[Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Why? So replica.]] (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: How is there no basis? Do you have any sense? What does that look like? ) The word has Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44960	Article 107(1) injured the dignity of the National Assembly in at least two ways. I'll tell you first about these colleagues sitting next to us. There is no greater opponent than LDP policy by Vojislav Seselj, and we tell you – this is not insulting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As long as the Messenger of the people is calmly expressing his position, it does not offend us or disturb us in any way to act in this congregation. What is a threat to dignity is that you use it to avoid talking about the most important thing that happened in this country this year, which is that a group of organized hooligans attacked the Emergency Center, police, political parties and other institutions. You instead of talking about this violence, you punish MPs because they carry transparency and protest peacefully speaking of their political message. We tell you, a hundred times a repeated lie won't become true. On October 5th, the Assembly was set on fire, but elections were previously stolen. We defended our freedom here, no store was robbed, we defended the police, we defended the police against the protesters. Yesterday, police were attacked by those who wanted to limit someone's freedom. On October 5th, freedom has been defended here, gentlemen, and we've won the election before. We are telling you today, unless you are able to tell the citizens of Serbia who the organizers are and what the motives of yesterday's attack are, you do not have the right to exercise authority, you do not have the right to be held accountable on behalf of all Serbian citizens, if you cannot tell which one was organised yesterday by the police, the Emergency Centre, the mammogram in front of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44961	Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44962	I think the dignity of the assembly is hurt if the MP misreads the messenger of another and then twists his words, either on purpose, or because he didn't understand it. Let me explain. In Novi Pazar, violence threatened, but LDP, in coordination with the police minister, prevented this violence, but it is hypocritical of those who condemn this violence or attempt to violence in Sandzak and defend this violence. This violence when defended by politicians, apparently there are political motives for this violence and it is undeniable. That's why we can't get away from it, because whoever's a state has to protect the state from violence, it's an elemental thing. They wanted to show you, to you from the ruling majority and government, that they are still on the street emperors. What happened, the police took it upon themselves. If it stays on that and if it falls on one man and the organizers don't find out, then this will continue to be discussed, that it's the five-eyed children, not the children of those who threw flowers at tanks that went to war crimes, they'll still be. That way we won't reach the EU, it's not accepting European values, it's justifying violence, contrary to Serbia's European future. It's just that everyone needs to be clear. So let's get out of Seselj, have the right to fight for their leader who's objectively there in The Hague, if someone's against it for so long, but don't turn the subject off something that's much more important than their banners that they've been wearing all week and nobody's minded.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44963	Mrs. Veronica Radete has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44964	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, a member of the 103rd position of our 4th Rules of Procedure has been violated. A moment ago, Mrs. Comic did not allow me to explain Article 107's injury. A Rules of Procedure, which I intend to explain. I wanted to say that the MPs of the SRS, when it comes to Mrs. Comic, are MPs of the second order. It doesn't bother here when any MP puts any kind of transparency, and you shouldn't mind. We didn't mind, it didn't occur to us to react when Mr. Canak, for example, held some sort of banner of support to Theophile Pancic. He defends the character and the work of Teofil Pancic and it's absolutely his right. You have not responded, or Mrs. Comic has not responded, I apologize that I am not speaking to her personally, when it has been published on the site in many newspapers since the week of "Death to the State" and under that transparency walk, no less than Minister Ciplic, Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So, and that's his right, he supports the death of the state and let it walk, and the citizens will decide whether to continue walking or not to be in power. We understand that Bill and Hilary are the main ideologists of Tadic's regime, but that you go to the point that because Hilary is coming we cannot say that we support Vojislav Seselj. Yes, we support him, Mrs. Comic and Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, and we raise our voice and we will repeat again without delay – stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. Gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the state summit, take care of the fundamental human rights of your citizen Vojislav Seselj, do not take care of the human rights of those you think have been violated by human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44965	Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44966	I'm referring to article 107, violation of the Parliament's dignity. What do I find a violation of dignity? This congregation passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. We had a pretty heated debate about it. It's one law that should have put us or amongst the tolerated, civilized peoples or those who don't want to provide peace, security and respect for other people. It's a key law of civilization. The question of tolerance isn't yesterday. It's very old. Glagol tolerance means - to suffer. A man has to learn to put up with the one next to him even though he disagrees with him. Any silence here that this law is about to apply to the Assembly, if the Assembly itself relativates or calls for disrespect of the law itself, it loses its dignity. At this point, it is crucial for this congregation. Any further relativation, smoothing, was this, were children, was October 5th, etc., said Mr. Andric on October 5th. Excuse me, on October 5th, people were not armed with stones and it was about respecting the law, and the law is that people's voices are respected. That was the key to those demonstrations. What do we have in mind here? Imagine the situation that the police didn't react. They would stone people like Iran or Saudi Arabia. How many dead would there be? You think of it as, like, violence is allowed. You can't allow violence. (President: Time. ) These were organized, violent demonstrations, paraphasic organizations, and we have to determine them and see who they are. You can't arm yourself with bats, and then attack the army and the police. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44967	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44968	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to thank Professor first. Micunovic and to say that this speech he gave serves the honor of all of us who were on the side of the party on October 5th and who were on the same side on Sunday, we are on the side of freedom, on the side of the state, on the side of human rights. It's sad only for the DS what Professor has to do with it. Micunovic, after half an hour of this pain to stand up and say. I must tell Mr Markicevic, who mentioned my name earlier, mentioned Novi Pazar and mentioned the conflicts. Mr Markicevic, LDP, and its president, Cedomir Jovanovic, have prevented conflicts along with the police minister in Novi Pazar. Unlike New Serbia, which came out with the Movement of Ours in the Arangelovac elections and received four times less votes or ten times less votes in Orasac, where the first Serbian uprising was, from LDP, Mr Markicevic. Please, Mr Markicevic, and you are no longer equalizing those who are fighting for freedom and those who have come to destroy Belgrade. TV's been attacked. The Emergency Center has been attacked. Political parties representing power were attacked, the state was attacked directly, police were attacked. I have to tell the police that if the others won't, the LDP will try to bring order to this country. You gentlemen can hoot and hoot, like we did on October 5th when we were defending the police, so we will defend the future. We think they did a good job on Sunday in every way, and now they're pushing them as victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44969	Gentlemen, I fully understand the need for everyone to say something on this subject that we're talking about. Still, we must respect the dignity of the congregation. I ask that we do not use, or abuse, the violation of the Rules of Procedure in order to express such an attitude. We have other options and a session on a particular subject. So there are different business opportunities that are in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'm really asking you to go back to today's agenda. I would like to inform you that in the small hall of the House of the National Assembly, the Conference of Assembly Committees is in charge of reducing poverty in the countries of the Western Balkans and Turkey. I call on committee members and interested MPs to join and participate in the work. You'll get the word, but really please, I don't want to say it, please, you'll all get the word, but please, please let us get to the agenda as soon as possible, because we're all really kind of using the atmosphere full of charges, which I understand. So I really ask that the time first be respected by those who advertise the Rules of Procedure, the second to call on a member, to take care of both the form and the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS really strongly condemns relativisation, as the ruling coalition gentlemen have said, political violence and I call for Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Micunovic, how is it possible that October 5th... (President: Please do not speak to Mr Micunović, but to Parliament and to me. ) Okay, I'm talking to the MPs, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia. How it is possible that on October 5th it was legitimate not only to burn down the Assembly, but to carry TV, art pictures, chairs, weapons, etc. I don't know if you've seen, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, a gay parade banner, where you can see Mr. Dežer from the European Commission, Mr. Chiplic and this shameful banner, which says "Death to the State". What state do you think it's about, Mr. Micunovic? Is this the death of the United States, the Federal Republic of Germany or the Republic of Serbia? Tell me, when you were talking about tolerance and patience, where are the limits of humiliating the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia? Tell me, what is the lower limit to which the Serbian people will be cast into the mud. This is a disgrace to the state of Serbia. It says here, Mr. Micunovic, among other things, "death to Mr. Chiplic", because he is a representative of the state in the Republic of Serbia. Tell me, where does this happen in a democratic and civilized world? Do the Americans, the French, the Germans tolerate the banners that say "Death to the United States", "Death to Germany", "Death to France"?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44971	National MP Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44972	Your Honor, it's not good when we talk with this much passion and I don't think this is the place where we should talk this way, and we're clouding terrible things from the past and our emotions. Let's see what really happened the day before yesterday. It bothers me personally that there were 1,000 people, 200 Alliance members and 800 who supported them. So, the prerequisite for my solidarity is their solidarity with each other. That's one. But anyway, you're right, Professor Micunovic is right, because if 10 people were there, we have to let them. On the other hand, every evil for some good. We now see clearly who the pro-European forces are in this country. Welcome to the SPS Club. You're a pro-European force in this country. You were burned yesterday, the day before yesterday. It's something that's good news to me. That seems to be what drunk minors see, but President Tadic does not see. It's something that's blasphemy. We are clearly divided, the team is clearly divided by who is here for the country to prosper, to modernise, to Europeanise, and who is the one who is against it. It's a political question. Yesterday, the drunk minors couldn't figure it out on their own. (President: Mr. Prokicu, some findings are very good to me, but don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. I know I don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. (President: I'd like to listen to you, but I can't do business... I don't want to gossip over the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44973	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44974	Madam President, I wanted to ask a question in time, but the system didn't work. They just brought me a card, so I turned myself in. It's very painful to listen to all this, picking up tiny points these days – last night, today, some politicians at our accident, at our fight, on our problems. I repeat, one issue is very important for this parliament to be launched -- who organised the October 10th event in Belgrade, it is responsible for the organisation and security of all citizens. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44975	The constitution and the law organized it. You haven't called any members. You don't have a word. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44976	I'm talking about the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 108(2), and as regards Article 107. In fact, Mrs Gordana Comic, when she gave me a warning, hurt my dignity because she told the Serbian public that she was giving me a second warning, and the first one was not at all given me her first warning because there was no reason for her to give the first warning. In addition, Mrs. Comic gave a warning to our fellow Serbian Radical, Dusan Maric, who was not sitting in the hall at all at the moment when Mrs. Comic made warnings. Such recklessness and such insolence, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic cannot be tolerated. If you want to end this and if you want to, as you like to say, return to the agenda, although for us everything is the agenda, and your arrogant behavior is the agenda, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. I don't mean you personally, but at all, the ruling majority, and today it was excellently presented by Comic. So, if you want it to stop, then give Mrs. Komic a heads-up, because she may have broken the Rules of Procedure more than once. Mrs. Comic, don't laugh in my face, please. I'm decent, so be yourself. Also, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I suggest you withdraw the shameful reminders that Mrs. Komic gave to the SRS, obviously with the intention of taking 10% of the salary from all of us so that Mr. Konstantinovic can once again boast that he will give us our money for some charity purposes, and the reminder has been given to us, to remind the public, because we held the banner "Stop killing Seselj". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44977	Mrs. Comic apologized to you and said she made a mistake when she said it. It's just one warning. Mr. Dusan Maric said the others sitting in the presidency, I wasn't here, I was in the O.R. I'll take another look and we'll see, but he was in the O.R. The word is Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44978	There's a clear difference that I wanted to point out from the beginning. Someone had a banner or a password somewhere, said "Death to the State." What he meant by that, I don't know. But between that and the pebbles, and the beating and the movement to kill people, there's a huge difference. That's what this is about. This is about whether or not we're going to let threats of violence make us give up the law, as Mr. Ilic said. The 10th was to ask someone when we can, when anyone can protest in this country, have to ask a group that we don't know where he is, except he collects stones to kill people. So that's what this is about, whether we're going to defend the law that we've passed and defend the dignity of the Assembly and the rights of people, or we're going to give in to anyone's pride, even if it's called famous fans, and we know a lot of things about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44979	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44980	Dear President, truly sincerely respecting your tolerance and the leadership of this assembly, I think I should have gotten the word a few minutes ago, but I thank you anyway. Comrade Marash, since you haven't been warned when you spoke directly to me, that means it's allowed. The New Serbia and Our coalition went to Arangelovac and beat the LDP to its feet. That's true, but I don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about what citizens should conclude what is happening in the National Assembly. So democracy for all, Europe for all, respect for the law for all. Respect for the law, Professor. Micunovic, and in Novi Pazar. Say, was she threatened there? Is it possible the police aren't shooting roses there, confetti or ticks and rocks?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44981	Please don't talk about the atmosphere here and the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44982	That's what he told me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44983	You're using something that might be a replica, but you didn't get...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44984	Why don't you let me talk about the human rights of citizens in the New Market? Why don't you let me talk about the rights of Serbs in the New Market? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44985	National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you see it is difficult to maintain order at this session. Maybe it's time to apply Article 112. It is interesting that some MPs are allowed to speak without inviting a member, while others insist. Look at this, on September 21st, when Vojislav Seselj was at the border of life and death because of the electroshocks given to him in the Hague case, due to inadequate treatment, a conference was held at the Media Centre of the Parade Organisers which was on Sunday. Among them were Dutch activists Van Delen, who advocated the participation of children from 12 to 16 years of age in such parades, therefore who is a pedophile. It's a violation of the Constitution, it's a violation of the law. It's the basis for criminal responsibility. It has nothing to do with human rights. Guys, you're promoting a pedophile here. You can't do that. Instead of going hard against such phenomena in society, to contain them to the end, you support actions by the BIA, the MUP, the military, and I don't know what kind of security structures. Of course, stop killing Seselj in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44987	Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try without raising any temperature to use this time to show the gentlemen of the ruling coalition that they are truly in one great error. There's no difference between killing, between violence, and when you publicly highlight "death to the state".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44989	I'm sorry, which member did you call?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44990	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I reported on the basis of the right to reply. By the same right, Mr. Micunovic also received the word. This is about the fact that whoever calls for violence, and the transparency of "death to the state" is an eclectic call to violence, is nothing better than the one who physically executes that violence. I really need to ask a question as a man, not only as an SRS MP – did we Serbs become intruders in our own country? Move us to Mongolia, somewhere far away on some meridians, and declare Serbia a country of homosexuals, let the Mufti be president of the state, you've given him the right to run in the elections anyway. If it had been done by an episcope of SPC, who knows what kind of label you'd have attached to it. So, what's going on here with the state of Serbia? Did Karadjordje, his heroes, Prince Milos Obrenovic, die for this state? Was the Serb army fighting for this country on the Thessaloniki front? I'm asking you, Mr. Grouchy. You're a man of experience. Is this the state of Serbia that we should leave to future generations, that paedophiles say what we should do in our own country? You couldn't get a bigger slap than the German foreign minister who tells you in your face – forget Kosovo is Serbia, and on the question of journalists whether he intends to conclude marriage with his partner, he says – not now, because we don't live in the same city. Mr. Mrkonjic, is there a limit to the humiliation of the Serbian people? Is it because of the EU that we should erase our history, our religion, our morality? Are you going to turn us into a bunch of robots, with no past...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44991	Time. Miss Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44992	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not exactly the respected home that seems to be now, it's amazing that anyone in this country, especially someone who is a MP, can give the right or have the understanding of someone who is attacking the police, who is trying to kill a group of people who is trying to express their rights guaranteeing the Constitution of this country and the laws of this country, that now a group of people who tried to enforce all those rights that guarantee them the Constitution and the law now calls pedophiles. There you, Madam President, had to react. It's not about any paedophiles. I think it's quite public knowledge that paedophiles and homosexuals can't possibly be the same. No wonder it comes from a parliamentary group that had understanding and to banish people from their homes just because they were different nationalities, precisely, Mr Martinovic who had just said it called it a real estate exchange that was happening, for a group of people who had an understanding of ethnic cleansing. That's why violence is no fear for them, the answer to the fight with non-insanes, with those who are different on any basis, it was earlier a nationality, and now sexual commitment, tomorrow it'll probably be hair color, skin color or something else. So I think that the conduct of individual parliamentary groups in this assembly is why the state had to ensure that the Constitution and the law were respected and that it must protect anyone who is in any way different. I think it's clear now why the League on 6 October 2000 demanded that the SRS be banned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44993	Mr. Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44994	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. The dignity of me as a people's messenger has been injured in two ways. The first time Mrs. Comic did it when she gave me the disciplinary measure. The second time Mrs Djukic Dejanovic did it when she found out 10 minutes ago that I was still in this room at the time of the punishment. Mrs. Comic told me because I allegedly violated the Rules of Procedure by allegedly keeping a banner in front of me in the hall that it said – stop killing Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. The facts are as follows: I watched the transfer of my punishment in a room more than 100 meters away from this hall. I have seven witnesses for that. I took their names and last names. None of them are members of the SRS. Secondly, at the moment I was given that measure in the MP's unit, it wasn't even my identification card. By the law of logic, it's impossible for me to be physically in two places at the same time, to be here and to be in a room 100 meters away from here. There are only two possibilities. Either you and Mrs. Comic broke the Rules of Procedure and hurt my dignity or there is some scientific discovery that is not known to the general public that one body, one person, can be in two different places at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44995	I've already given an explanation that when I get an insight into where you've been, we'll certainly be responding from the presidency. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic has a word, and then Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44996	Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, I'm advocating an injury to Article 27, but above all, to Article 109. Today the session began as usual as last week, then something happened that took us in this direction where we were going and where we've been for about an hour and more. Article 109 regulates the manner in which and the reasons for defining the cause and the reason for making the warning. At the beginning of this session, the SRS today did nothing that could be identified and found in the points of Article 109 so that the entire parliamentary or almost entire parliamentary group would be punished with one warning, and some MPs and another warning. I ask you to find out what is the sin and what is the problem and what is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, which is why the SRS has been punished, and what has been warned about it? Is it a transparent, inscription – Stop killing Vojislav Seselj, or were the motives for such a thing in something else? We respect that you invite us to guard our dignity, to protect the Rules of Procedure and each of us MPs, but you have to do so first and foremost to do so to those of you who sit here or those who chaired the session in your absence and did all this. The SRS has its legitimate right. The dignity of the congregation was not questioned. We ask that the state react, to protect its citizen in The Hague, the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Unlike those who rule today, we do not stand under the banners - death to the state, and unlike many, we do not see that what happened yesterday... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44997	Time. The word is from Ambassador Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44998	Dear President, I appeal to Article 107, the dignity of the Assembly. I think those MPs who are trying to justify the violence that took place on Sunday in the streets of Belgrade by constantly pointing to a violation of the so-called. some of the rights in Novi Pazar, Sandzak, to violate the Parliament's dignity, as it is constantly showing that Bosniaks, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the Sandzak area, are on duty. Whenever there are problems in Serbia, it always points to those citizens. I think, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, that you should react when such MPs try to equate the violence that happened here on Sunday on the streets of Belgrade with what was happening in Novi Pazar. In Novi Pazar, human rights are being violated in Novi Pazar a month ago and a few days ago by our LDP president, along with Minister Dacic, prevented bloodshed as the president of the LDP party, who won four times more votes in Orasco than those parties trying to win these false patriotism today, and those parties trying to justify what happened on Sunday, and groups that try to ban people from thinking differently and ban respect for the laws and constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u44999	Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45000	Madam Chairman, we all know a member of the 103rd New Rules of Procedure, item 4, where it is said that the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly. That's what my colleague Jerkov absolutely didn't do once, and you'll see in her stenographic notes that she didn't say a single moment, and you gave her a word and allowed her to speak. There were other examples like that here. I think it's time for this debate to end. It's completely unnecessary. He's not going anywhere. Everyone's in their positions. We need to get back to normal work. It seems to me that young people in Serbia need much more education, much more employment, more efficient work of this Parliament than debate and debate. Then they won't pay that much attention to that small group of gays who were in Belgrade on 10th, who otherwise told us all to die because they walked. But I'm saying, every one of us has its positions, it stands on them. I don't think it's that important. Much more important are the conditions in which these young people will live, and then we will surely have much less problems. All of us here together are to blame for that. Maybe someone thinks it isn't or is, but we're all guilty of it, but I think this debate is starting to be completely meaningless and pointless. I think you should stop and get back on the agenda, and hope that this government, still in the short run, will at least do something concrete, which has failed so far, and try to return at least a little dignity to the state of Serbia, which has been completely lost since it was in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45001	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45002	Article 107, but also, really, possibilities for replication, since I was mentioned by Mr Markicevic, but I won't be long, at most one minute. The essence of what we talked about here today, or what's behind what happened on Sunday, is next. Someone has organised groups that have come to Belgrade to attack state institutions and to intimidate, both citizens of Belgrade and citizens of Serbia. The biggest problem is that, apart from two politicians in this country, no one has the courage to say openly who is behind it and why is this happening? I expect that from the highest officials of this country, both the president and the prime minister. The least I expect is that the mayor of Belgrade is equating those who were victims and those who tried in these people to seek maximum anger, to try to kill them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45003	Mrs. Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45004	Madam Chairman, I appeal to Article 27 for article 107, calling on you to prove that we are all equal here. If that were the case, you would, as soon as you took the place that belongs to you, give the warning measure to Mrs. Komic. But I leave it to you to judge, it's your discretionary right. You should have responded to Miss Jerkov's presentation, which according to our parliamentary group, made certain claims concerning some persecution of non-Serbs from the territory of Vojvodina. I remind you that neither the UN tribunal has proved in any process that there was such a thing and that it could prove such a thing, and Vojislav Seselj would already have a conviction. The process would be completed, they wouldn't have to apply these measures they've been applying for a year to end the process by losing their lives. Because of this, we wear passwords and we warn the public, and you here who should support us in this, to stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45005	National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45006	Thank you, Madam President, Section 107, and we are finishing this discussion. I must tell you that at first, I would like to welcome the DS MPs who were with a group protected by the police on Sunday. Unfortunately, that support cannot, and I cannot bear that greeting compared to today. What offends most today is the dignity of this congregation, which is the silence that, apart from two lights, comes from the ruling coalition. You can't hide behind the president's back forever. You can't. What happened on Sunday has all the elements of terrorism. The hospital was attacked, it was organized, there were weapons. Groups have set off on several sides and the country is at risk. You don't intend to defend the state, you have to tell us. If the President of the Republic or anyone else wants to save that country, we'll help you. We won't let you keep it quiet. We will not allow you a day after the greatest violence that has happened in this city for the last few years to take a turn with what radicals hold with full rights, once again I say, transparency in front of themselves. This topic is much more important than anything the Assembly will discuss today, because it is violence that is directed against the state, violence that is directed against each of us. Any withdrawal or relativization of that violence feeds. You won't deal with this violence by bringing in 18-year-olds and some man we don't even know is normal, who had his own list of organizers. You must stop and publicly tell who was behind this violence, with what goals and what was beyond destabilising the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45007	Time. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic, and then Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45008	Your Honor, with this replica, I will complete the discussion and, on behalf of that, I ask you to speak for two minutes as well as the others. A colleague who spoke a few moments ago about false patriotism was my dear and congratulated host in Priboj on Saturday. What he said in that Pride Parade, let's keep it between us. He'll be my dear guest in Chačka. Mr. Hajdarevich, I wasn't talking about the Bosniaks at all. Well, good for them, I have a lot of friends there. We know the Bosniaks well... (President: Just don't talk to MP Hajdarevic, but to parliament. Please. All right. Thank you, President. I just want to say, because of the LDP indictment under the new Serbia's grains, that New Serbia is a law-abiding one. It is against violence, but on all parts of the Republic of Serbia. So, and in Novi Pazar. There the police were shot with stones and cracks, and one opposition politician intervened to let themselves go, to avoid bloodshed. Which he didn't intervene in Belgrade, when he's so good and sweet. No, they need Mufti Zukorlic for the censorship, so we'll talk about the Nuts. If I were not the place of some MPs, I'd think, first of all, what I'm going to do in Chačka. Don't worry about the Nuts. I want to send a message to all citizens of Serbia, especially where the Bosniaks live in the Raska area. Don't fall for the provocations, you're the neighbor who's lived for centuries and you'll live together today. You know very well all of you who have met me, how I feel about the Bosniaks. I am a true patriot, and I give it right to the Bosniaks, both right to language and religion. Wherever I could do it, I influenced it. Don't let the so-called "supervise" get in your way. pro-European politicians who need 1-2% to censorship. Don't be fooled by politicians who can't stop the bloodshed, but in fact, there's been a crackdown on the New Market police. That's all I want to talk about, Madam President, is that the law must be respected everywhere and that Serbs in Novi Pazar are banned from the assembly. Let me tell you in the end, do you know that the transfer has been excluded in some parts of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45009	Time. Mr. Aleksandar Martinović
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are now a number of topics open here. As for Miss Jerkov, she quoted me as saying that in Srem and Vojvodina in the early 1990s there was no persecution against the Croats, but there was an exchange of real estate and I keep saying so. Miss Jerkov, if you would like, I will take you to Hrtkovce, Kukujevace, Golubince, Slankamen, and see the houses that Serbs from Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Dubrovnik have replaced Rijeka with houses from these villages. They left houses worth hundreds of thousands of German marks, and some were worth over a million, for example, to move into houses made of mud hundreds or 200 years ago. As for Mr. Hajdarevic, Mr. Hajdarevic, there is no objection to the SRS when it comes to Muslims, or as you say, Bosniaks in Sandzak. We would be the greatest hypocrites in the world if we spoke against the Muslims, and we have in our ranks the People's MP Suleiman Spah, who is the Serb Muslim religion. We don't mind the ordinary Muslim population, they're our neighbors, they're our friends. What does a common Muslim have to do with the fact that your mufti has a weapons warehouse, that he's a major drug dealer, that the Taliban... (President: I will now really ask you to focus on the content that is related to parliament. Please assess the consequences of your findings and sentences, and we agreed to work on stabilizing the atmosphere and to move on to work on the amendments. Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Ma'am, if I can just finish. (President: Finish. ) So, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I really want to stabilise the situation in parliament and in the state, but this situation will not settle if you push the truth under the carpet. What I know and what the MPs of the SRS have said, the Minister of the Interior knows. Another thing is why the MUP reacts one way in Novi Pazar, and otherwise reacts on the streets of Belgrade. I took the floor to explain to Mr. Hajdarevic, my colleague and my friend, that the SRS has nothing against Muslims, but we are against the fact that the state of Serbia is falsely accused of violating the human rights of Muslims, although it is not. You are the first, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to react to that. It is here that the SRS is not accused of protecting the rights of Muslims in the Raška area, but of the state of Serbia. Now I ask you -- what is the act, the move, the procedure of a Serbian state where a human, minority, religious right of any Muslim in the Rasko area has been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45011	Time. Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45012	It wasn't our intention to continue, but I think this is too serious and it has to be answered. First, I'll answer you very directly. The state of Serbia directly involved the Sandzak religious community in politics by participating in the Islamic Community elections in Serbia and by supporting one candidate against another. It was done by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and two ministers who have been in the Serbian government longer than Slobodan Milosevic led the country since 2000. The conflict in Sandzak is not a conflict between Serbs and Muslims, or Bosniaks, I apologize, it is a conflict between those who have been in power for over 10 years and those who want to change something, so that people in Novi Pazar and the whole of Sandzak get something for themselves, something for life. I think accusing someone of having a weapons warehouse is really inappropriate, and that's something that leads beyond that certainly leads to violence. There are no weapons warehouses. What we are asking of the state is to accept Mufti Zukorlic as a legitimate negotiator because that man and the list he led received almost 50% in the national council elections. Refusing to talk to him, except for rare individuals in power, the state refuses to communicate with 50% of the population in Sandzak. That's what's dangerous. We haven't lived in this country since yesterday. We know how these things end. We are against all violence, today I tell you, and we judge and condemn violence in the New Market in particular. We don't approach it selectively and where we could, we helped, once again say, with the Home Secretary, and prevented the spread of that violence. We really don't accept any weapon chatter, none of it's true. That's all it's doing to get the subject off of what I just said. If the state gives in to the violence that took place in Belgrade on Sunday, the next victim is all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45013	Time. Thank you. The 234th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Nobody answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45014	The amendment of 234 which we have submitted concerns the eradication of heading 3, which actually speaks about the work of the Directorate entrusted with the affairs of this law in the field of state administration, in terms of the adoption of regulations and first-degree administrative acts, the issue of public documents and the keeping of records. Article 234 and 235, which I will especially explain, is actually something that is generally a major problem of this country. Gentlemen of the Government, the Directorate, the Ministry, representing this law, you have been constantly calling for ratification of the final document of the diplomatic conference on a protocol amending the International Convention on Co-operation in the area of air navigation security since 13 December 1960. I will ask Mrs. President to allow me, when I have finished the explanation, to bring and give to Mr. Minister and his associates that protocol and that ratification to show me in which member they have found a foothold so that they can deal with affairs in the state of Serbia and the Directorate and the Agency in this way. For the public of Serbia, I repeat, the Treaty establishing an Agency for Flight Control between Serbia and Montenegro exists in the Republic of Serbia only as a proposal for a contract, unsigned, unverified, uninformed, is not in the government. There may be someone private, but if he has it in private, it looks like a contract signed by Mr Davinic in a hotel room, which is being sued by the state of Israel. The damage is likely to be paid by the state of Serbia, and you have not yet been sued by anyone who, without legal basis, charge huge fees for flying over Serbia's sky. (President: Time. Above all, what is controversial, you spend money in an illegal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45015	The 235th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45016	That's exactly the problem. Article 235 states that laws can be passed in our country that are ratified by international agreements in this home and that as such they become part of our Constitution or general international rules and as such are the source of rights and can be found in our Constitution. I repeat and argue, there is no legal basis for the way you spend money in the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Flight Control Agency. It's about the fact that there's legal violence and that it's about illegal billing and spending money. I will provide you with a reply from the Ministry of Finance which claims that it has nothing to do with it, that it has no insight into the contract and that on 6 October 2010, we received a reply from the Secretary General of the Government that it does not have a contract that would be the basis for the collection and operation of the Flight Control Agency. I also argue that the 1960 law and ratification do not contain the basis for this mode of work and do not accidentally refer to Annex 1, in which the state of Serbia-Montenegro is not treated in terms of flight safety over its sky. If that money had remained in the Directorate and the Agency had been in the budget, we wouldn't have groups in Serbia today that are socially vulnerable, we wouldn't have 60% of the youth in the unemployed and in this country the only choice would be to support a gay parade or to be for violence, we wouldn't have a normality here as the only possible choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45017	Time. Member of the 235th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 238 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Mr. Savic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 238. A draft air traffic law. Namely, my amendment refers to the Air Traffic Directorate's Management Board. The law states here that the board of directors numbers five members and is taxing that they are members of ministers, and then lists: Minister of Transport, Home Affairs, Finance, Environmental Protection, etc. The Serbian Radical Party considers this to be a conflict of interest, although you answer otherwise in an explanation. I really don't know why there are ministers on this board, if you've already defined yourself to be ministers, maybe you should have put the Minister in charge of health affairs, so that the Minister of Some of these planes JAT could fly to The Hague, to get to know the health status of our citizens, in particular in this case I mean the health status of our party's President Vojislav Seselj, whom they're killing in The Hague, and we saw here what was happening in this assembly when we were trying to draw your attention to that. That is why I believe that the Government should reconsider this amendment, look and accept, because I do not think that ministers should be members of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45019	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami to Article 238. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 238 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45020	Article 238 regulates the composition and membership of the Management Board. As the public knows, because the SNS has repeatedly pointed out, that in the Board of Directors, and also in the board of directors of the Agency for Flight Control, the ministers, we believe that this is a conflict of interest under the Government Act and that you cannot rely on the Civil Aviation Directorate Act, because it is not there as such and that you cannot focus on a law that currently suits you according to certain criteria. We ask that in the board of directors sit people who have professional experience, that this committee has five members of which must be two from the user ranks, that they have higher education from the work of the Directorate and at least nine years of air work experience. For at least nine years, you have asked for the Secretary of the Competition Protection Commission, and for such an important authority there is no such condition. The government in this body is exercising founding rights. So, the founder is the Directorate and how members of the government can control themselves, the legality of their decisions, and it really is a conflict of interest. They give themselves consent to the acts they bring, and these acts, to remind you, are currently in the Constitutional Court, from regulations to acts on the establishment of this authority and to remind myself, which I did not, for a short time, have come to explain, in Article 235, where the silence of the administration is treated, when you do not respond by appeal, let it go to administrative dispute, and how in the Anti-Corruption Agency Law, you have converted the silence of the administration into consent. So when you do double functions, and someone complains, and the complaint doesn't respond, that's where the government can continue to break the law. Here, when you violate someone's right, you go to the Administrative Court, and the disputes last as long as they last, and these are the reasons why this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45021	The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to Article 239. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 239 in order to point out that what you have answered about my amendment is actually in college, because the directorate makes director of the board of directors, he can't systematize jobs, and that's why I've stated that after the word "systematization" the member is deleted. I want to refer to something Mr. Minister, whom I have the honour of seeing, very much about these laws that I'm discussing, which is that I've repeated several times on the Transport Committee about the infrastructure and the gaps that have so far occurred. It is on the way to Sabac – Koceljeva, where it worked "Alpine", where impact holes appeared a year ago, where there was also damage on the roads to the Sabbath bridge. I have to tell you, a year ago exactly at this time there was a bridge repair in Sremska Mitrovica, where I travel daily on that same bridge, on those same repairs, holes appeared. We have to understand, there's money being invested in that infrastructure, but you have to intervene, which is why construction or repair of these roads re-emerges the same impact holes. Don't make it happen at the time of the political campaign, make way for a one-time use, and when the elections pass, these paths are not for use. What I would end up saying as any citizen, like any man who listens to all this in this assembly, and do you believe that today is Serbia, and probably Belgrade should be marched by those who are hungry, poor, who have no opportunity to buy drugs, those who cannot train their children. That whoever's hungry, and that's a peasant, can't complain, that's what we need to take care of, and we're talking about some Western world's nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45023	Your MP group has three minutes left, so it's okay that you spoke for more than two minutes. The 241st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45024	The SNS submitted a series of amendments relating to the financing of the Directorate. Given the bad experience so far, we have tried to sort of correct this bill and bring it into line with the legislation. What is the biggest problem, when it comes to Article 241, and it concerns the financing of the Directorate, is that there is not enough respect for the fact, or the Law on public agencies, since the services of the Directorate must be in line with that law and it was necessary to introduce this member, when it comes to the financing of the Directorate. What bothers us, too, are the tariffs relating to the improvement of air traffic, what is collected from passengers, from luggage that is transported. We are afraid, as I said earlier, thanks to the previous behaviour of the Directorate, that these funds are not used on purpose, and it is very important that they be used on purpose because of the importance of traffic development. That's why we suggested to this member that control of these funds be given to the Government, that they be strictly used on purpose, not simply given to the Directorate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45025	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 241. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45026	Articles 243 to 247 shall regulate the reading, i.e. verification and inspection. What is disputed for us is the check, the fee is again paid to the Directorate, and this Directorate is so illegally founded, whose establishment at the Constitutional Court is the subject of discussion, as well as all the rules it has adopted, is seriously challenged by such a way of working and agricultural production itself. Now you'll be wondering what kind of relationship it is, and I'm going to tell you that the Directorate and the Agency are to blame for the fact that the farmers are not compensated for the damage from the city that is taking place, because when the flight control forbids the launch of the rockets, then the minister claims that it is not possible because of a convention that does not write it, I'll bring it to you, so round me a member or sentence where it has it. In order for the city to not know why it destroyed the harvest in the future, the anti-urban protection has been moved to the MUP, so I guess it'll be easier to get there to answer why these things happen. When the damaged farmers start blocking traffic and flight control devices, which I don't call them to, I wonder if you'll call them any inappropriate or appropriate names for you, or if we'll solve in this country the problem of the illegal business of those who represent, damage and permanently destroy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45027	The 244th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 245 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 246 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 247 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45028	As an officer. In fact, 243 to 247 regulates the reading and control of the billing overflights, we use the opportunity to talk about the illegal distribution of funds charged by these bodies, which I really don't know how else to call except para-state and illegal. We suggest that the government take this amendment very seriously by literally treating the distribution of money from overflights, because it would provide not only damages from the city, but would make it impossible for you to distract citizens of Serbia when you say that money is invested only in infrastructure. Enter the books of the Directorate and the Agency, so you can see that even the land has been sold and handed over to the Agency for Flight Control, by JAT, and it's all a circle. For the money that was received, the apartments that were assigned to the officials were purchased. May one of you now explain to me how this apartment is a function of any political party infrastructure that this country will benefit from? Mr. Mrkonjic, you are only a two-year member, there have been illegalities since 2003, since it was illegally founded and since the authority was given to Mrs. Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic to sign the founding contract. At that time, in the Secretariat, employees Goran Jovicic agreed to sign such an aberration. This man is now in an important and important place at the Flight Control Agency. Please make sure that what they keep in drawers and assure us they're working legally, take out and fire someone who's hiding those papers, at least under that extra-employee law, the maximum number of employees in the state administration, because hiding the truth is a big damage to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45029	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 248 of the amendment. Mr. Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, public powers are entrusted with the law and the public authority holder cannot transfer his powers to anyone else. So it's necessary to regulate it and how it's regulated legally. In Article 240, we have the possibility of the Directorate entrusting some of its public authority to individuals involved in conducting certain tasks related to internal verifications, air traffic checks. The fact that this is not fully governed by the law and that it is in accordance with the laws and regulations that treat public powers is impossible to find this in this article and in this law. It seems to me that too many powers have been given to the Directorate in this case and that we are put in a position to vote on an illegal member in voting day, probably already today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45031	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 249th amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45032	I'm taking the opportunity to get to know the public one more part of the reasoning about these amendments, where the rules of the Convention, which I've stated, don't even talk about how money is going to be distributed. All it's said is that it's about the Aviation Safety Agency, and it's part of Eurocontrol, and an international organisation that informs aircraft in flight over the territory of all Western European states, and that's only in some parts of the airspace listed in Annex 2, which I just mentioned as the accompanying part of that international contract. There's one big lie out of reason, and I want you to pay attention to her. We don't get to spend the money we charge from the overpass. There is an obligation to carry out air traffic operations in quality and according to adopted standards. With how many people, with how much money, without waste or abuse, is it prescribed for you "Eurocontrol" or is it basic logic that you have to adhere to as one responsible and domestic government, because we are those who, as a state, have to impose standards to adopt, but the mechanisms that we are going to achieve, that is the art of a government, that is the integrity of a government, and that is perhaps the knowledge that is being misused for fully private and personal purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45033	Members of the 250th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Mr Popovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45034	In Article 250 following Article 5, I proposed to add a position of 6 which reads: "Air inspectors are selected by public competition according to the criteria of professional training and experience in the relevant operations of the Air Force". The SRS believes this is an extremely important amendment, as it limits the will and haughtiness of Nikola Stankov, current director of the Agency for Flight Control and the man who places 725 thousand dinars in his pocket each month, which is about 20 average salaries or 50 lowest salaries in Serbia. According to some information, the salary of his assistants is about 400,000 dinars, while the average salary in the Directorate is about 200,000 dinars. Employment in the Directorate must be restricted and exclusively carried out on the basis of competition, given that it is a financially strong body in the state. I'll give you precise information on the funding of the directory. According to official final accounts, the Directorate made a profit of 5.5 billion dinars in 2009 and counted 832 employees. In 2008, the revenues were 5.1 billion dinars, 5.4 billion in 2007, and 4.5 billion dinars in 2006. The net net profit of the Directorate in 2009 was 45.9 million, in 2008 85.8 million dinars, in 2007 39.7 million dinars, and in 2006 40.5 million dinars. Because of these figures, I believe that the employment of air inspectors must be done on the basis of the competition and that should be explicitly in this law, because it is clear why the Serbian Government is not responding and why my amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45035	Member of the 251st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 255 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45036	We're coming to inspection. So, inspection supervision, air inspector and another member who does not comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, because in paragraph 2 of this article you have the incredible authority of an air inspector, that the record when carrying out the work control and the minutes to be issued a solution to the ban is made only 24 hours after inspection. So it's incredible, unacceptable and incomprehensible for the SNS why you even entered this member. I don't think you've given any explanation in the government's response, because it's obvious that it's a violation, as I said, of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and there's no reason for an air inspector to be an exception. If he's already under surveillance, the record consists of a moment of surveillance, not after 24 hours, of whom he falls into the will, or of any consultation, agreement, that. In any case, such a legal solution creates an opportunity for manipulation, for abuses, and that's what we least need, and so in this society we have too many.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45037	On Article 256, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 256 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45038	I'll just take a minute. Unrespecting some international conventions for air surveillance in some exceptional situations, the legislator decided on a solution that, according to us, is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because, contrary to some international law, it is an international practice in air surveillance. It's only necessary to be in some rare situations, when there's a real excuse for it. Unfortunately, you had no understanding of this amendment either. When it comes to inspection supervision, we think there are a lot of gaps in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45039	On Article 257 of Amendment 21 of the MP group "Forward Serbia". Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45040	I hope that we have convinced the public that we do not have any special relationship with this Directorate or the Agency, but we have a different concept that the state must exercise its jurisdiction, how much to charge them and where and what to invest in the money it collects from citizens or from foreign companies, in this case, from those who fly over. What is inadmissible is that if you do not adopt our Article 257 of the Law, where a complaint is possible and allowed to be made about an inspector's solution, you are in fact disabling what is the achievement of European law, which is an effective complaint. You're allowing the possibility of someone who's damaged just to go to a administrative dispute. How long administrative disputes last and whether they represent what the international pact on civil and political rights in art. 2nd and 3rd said that everyone has the right to an effective appeal that will compensate for his damaged right, it is simply impossible to achieve this law. Mr. Carrot, you said you didn't have a complaint. I trust you, but those who need to inform and hold you by the drawers of the appeal, here's your 2008 number, February 335 at the office of the joint service, March 2, 2010, February 30, September 17, 2009... I will give everything up, that I do not bother citizens with it now, but if you do not adopt this amendment, you are not in the spirit of European achievements, the right to an effective appeal, as would otherwise be if you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45041	On Article 258 of the amendment, MP Momir Markovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45042	You cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, be considered a violation of air traffic in any way. As a result, we asked the SRS to delete in Article 258, which otherwise refers to sanctioning points 1), 2), 7), 14, 20, 24), 37), and 51), because these are not offences, these are crimes that endanger not only traffic safety but also the lives of many people. It cannot be allowed, let's say, that someone fires a rocket unauthorized, of course, and thereby compromises security, as can be allowed and that someone buys aggregates from non-professional manufacturers who will be installed in the Flight Control Agency as a secondary or territorial source, and that flight control is required to have three power sources and that, as it happened two hours ago, the flight control agency will be dead and two hours of aircraft over Serbia, aircraft that took over flight control flying blindly, to pray and seek adjacent flight controls to eventually take over those aircraft and to guide them. Have you wondered, Mr. Minister, who is responsible for this? The fact is that the moment the power switch jumps out of the electric power supply, another aggregate must be involved, so in case it is also an incorrect third aggregate to turn on and that flight control at any time has power supply. We've asked that these points be deleted from this article where they're predicted as violations and that these dots are considered criminal acts. We also asked for a point 55 to be added), that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and Director of the Directorate, are responsible if they do not bring in all the regulations within the legal period and all the sublaws laid down by this law, because this law, unless the regulations follow it and the sublegal acts that come out of it, will be only a dead letter on paper. That is why I believe, Mr. Minister, that you should adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45043	The Government has submitted to Article 258 of the amendment. The Committee on Transport and Connections has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 258th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 258. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 258 by MP Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 259 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 260 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 261st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45044	I don't believe there's a reporter who'll be happy to do this, and for me, this is the height of the illegality, the chaos in this country. We asked for the removal of Article 261 of the proposal of the Government – it is believed that the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, concluded on 31 October, which was established by the Aviation Control Agency, the government authorised the Aviation Control Agency to provide air navigation services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia until the Government decided otherwise. I'm saying that contract doesn't exist. I claim on the basis of the government's reply and the signatories, Secretary General Tamara Stojcevic, here I have shown it, since 6 October 2010, where it is said - that there is no text of the contract signed in the government's General Secretariat's documentation. I'm submitting to you a proposal for a contract that I've been explaining for a while, which has never been signed anywhere, and if it is, it's a secret to us. Here, here, look, I'll turn him in. I really think that when the government claims the contract is gone, that it's not in its archive, that it's not being seduced, that such a contract doesn't exist. How can there be someone who has been harvesting half a billion euros for seven years, while a huge number of people are on the verge of poverty, doing business under the law, on the basis of an existing contract, and that no one is yet asking questions about the government's responsibility and the state ministers we're talking about and that it will be said that this situation will last until otherwise decided? I don't bring out newspaper texts. I present the government's documents, answer the questions that this law provides. You can't act like this without the Constitution of the prescribed conditions. I think it's the 261st highlight of arrogance that speaks of a different concept of you and of us who criticise you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45045	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 261. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 263 of the amendment. The Committee on Transport and Connections accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, i.e. in accordance with the Constitution, so the amendment became an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 263rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 264th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted this amendment first and foremost to show how slow this government is, how much it does not do its job and how well the public in the government itself is blamed for the current situation in almost all areas and in Serbia's overall life today. Namely, this Article 264 states that the Ministry of Infrastructure is taking over all the equipment of the so far-called Directorate, all of what is the archive about inspection supervision, and we need to remind the citizens that the Constitution has regulated that all these jobs should have been completed by 5 August 2008. So it's obvious that he's been late for two years with these jobs that were in front of the government. It is obvious that there was no interest or strength in the government to settle the area earlier, and it is quite obvious that for two years we have had the fact that inspection supervision has been carried out counter-constitutionally by the Directorate and that the Government has failed and has failed, and having in mind all of these means spoken of by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. It is also obvious that you have not in one way protected the interest of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45047	The Government has submitted to Article 265 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 265th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 265th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45048	I think we talked about it on Friday, but it's getting through in this article as well. The directorate has given himself the right to bring in sublaws. No matter what one multilateral agreement is, which has been accepted in the Republic Assembly, all sublegal acts cannot be left to the Directorate. All international agreements, anything extending any rights of any air traffic participant must be governed by a special law. This law must be passed in the Republic Assembly. It's got to be posted in the official messenger. There is one procedure based on which this state works. For no reason are given to the Directorate some rights which are outside the authority, outside the law, outside the Constitution, and that is why we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45049	The 265th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45050	The SRS Parliament Club has only asked for an amendment to add another position in Article 265, which reads – to the provisions of Article 1 that affect the jurisdiction of flying control in Serbia's airspace, the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is mandatory. Just that and nothing else. Who's afraid of giving consent by the Assembly? What are the rules, especially when regulations are so important, that should not go through congregation procedure? Mr. Minister, you know when you were an MP that often things just go through the Assembly because they're clean and then the Assembly just to agree. Of course, the Assembly is at the same time just a filter of many things that are not exactly in harmony and the Assembly then stops such actions and such bill proposals. In any case, the explanation I received says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Directorate of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia, within its regulatory function, is empowered by the draft law to adopt a series of sublegal acts in the field of air traffic, and also to adopt regulations under the ESAC Agreement. As far as they're concerned under the laws, what do you think people don't sit here who at least understand a little bit and at least some of the things that are in the area of air traffic? No one says the Directorate should prepare the sublaws, but the government should bring them in and need the Assembly to be familiar. However, the Assembly is sometimes deaf to crys when they are brought out here. MP clubs know that they come out when calls are made that are very important, and sometimes of vital importance, cry out which the SRS refers primarily to the Government, primarily to protect Prof. Vojislav Seselj from killings that are carried out permanently back several months by non-treatment or mistreatment. The fact is that the congregation has such shortcomings, but the fact is that these things have to go through the congregation. Mr. Minister, you know that your president was killed on the same principle in The Hague, besides those 15 or 16 who were killed. Another murder is being prepared and the SRS is appealing to everyone, and to you in the government, and to these in the Assembly, and to the Serbian and world public to stop this crime against Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45051	The 266th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 266th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45052	Article 266 is the last thing I'm gonna talk about. It treats the Management Boards and Directors of the Directorate and it is truly unheard that the Directorate, which is literally just now being established by this law, in the responsibilities which the Constitution has unlawfully established, unlawfully and unconstitutionally carried out until this law, remains and functions as it has so far. I'd like to see that lawyer of yours explain to me the legal possibility that they continue their functions in accordance with earlier decisions that are illegal. How contrary to all the conventions that we have adopted as a state, not as individuals but as a state, is the embarrassment of all of us with that Greek report, where it is indicated that it is an obligation for these people to be called competitions, to prove their expertise. It's not just a question for you anymore. It's a question for Serbian citizens. This much effort has been put into considering this law, this kind of paper and the insistence of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, is not any more than we knew what else to do than this is an obvious example of how the state disowns its ingenuity where it should never be and that all the stories of the state about the care of citizens' living standards and some European achievements are done in the wrong place and the wrong methods. You're talking about taking care of your citizens, but only on your own terms. Here where the means to exercise their rights, where the means to provide them with a job and a better standard, you raise your hands from your responsibilities, pretend you do not know that one agency and one Directorate are illegally operating and spending hundreds of millions of euros on all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45053	The 267th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Mr. Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45054	In Article 267, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have once again tried by the legislator, it has happened to us before, that somehow the rights acquired by earlier laws are limited. A certain capital has, no doubt, been invested in the aviation industry. We have some economic operators who are engaged and who, under the applicable laws, have exercised some rights and have therefore paid some compensation and it is unacceptable that their rights already acquired are retroactively limited by this law. It's something that creates one legal uncertainty in this country. It's one wrong signal to all entrepreneurs, all legal entities, all foreign investors, if you will, very often you like to talk about the need for foreign and direct investments, and if you have such legal uncertainty that with every new law, all the rights you've acquired in some future period, you can lose, then you're simply wondering if this country has an honest intention to encourage the economy, to encourage entrepreneurship and to protect you in any future period of any kind of self-will. So, in this way, by adopting this bill of law, damage is done to some economic operators, and we are through a proposal to delete this 24-month deadline, but to all those rights that have been established until the day until which they are legally regulated and achieved, and after that, to apply this law. It seems to me in general that, when we look at the fullness of this law, the law is in the context of further feudalisation of state administration in Serbia, that it is full of disadvantages, that in many institutes that are being passed through this law, with many institutes, more specifically, there will be problems, that the Constitutional Court will have and how we work and that unfortunately we continue to enter a party, part-time state in which there is no future for any of Serbia's citizens. It would be like a final word of mine, given that I had the honour of being an authorised proposer, or on behalf of the SNS, to explain this law. We are very unhappy with this law, we are very dissatisfied, Mr. Minister, that you have allowed your ministry's powers to be so humiliated and that this Directorate seems to rise beyond all the institutions of the system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45055	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm sorry, I didn't realize the minister wanted to talk about this law. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45056	What kind of minister would I be if I didn't want to answer the questions the MPs have asked here? I thank the MPs again. This was really exhausting, studio-prepared. Just, first of all, three brief answers to some facts that aren't true. I can't let them leave anyway. Mrs Tabakovic, the agreement for the Serbia-Montenegro Aviation Agency was signed on 31.10.2003. That's what I told you last time, because I have that contract with me. Based on him, I've determined what my rights are in that agency. Based on him, I don't take any money. Second, Goran Jovicic isn't at the Agency, his colleague has mixed up a bit, he's not here right now. He's at the Directorate. Third, the Agency never, and I checked it out, she didn't share apartments. Never. They're short answers to these questions, so there's no confusion. I'm going to say again, there have been a lot of questions about the establishment of the Directorate. It's a completely unfounded proposal that the Directorate should be a management body within the Ministry. It is precisely the establishment of an independent agency, entrusted as a public authority, the conduct of public administration operations in the field of aviation and a clear distinction between the Ministry of Traffic and the Agency that the European Commission, not the Union, insists on, is a special topic, the European Commission in the field of aviation and traffic. As far as funding is concerned, it was another very important issue, and then I'll return to the board of directors very shortly. It is completely transparent, and I said this the last time, that the Directorateate and the Aviation Control Agency, in addition to the revenues they make to provide services, i.e. to carry out their duties under their jurisdiction, are mainly financed from the fees for flyovers in accordance with international obligations. International obligations, Mrs Tabakovic, which the Republic of Serbia took when it joined a multilateral agreement on the routine fees charged by Eurocontrol, which operates as an institution, rather than as an association of citizens. I note that overfly fees are not taxes, but real costs for services provided that are approved and verified by Eurocontrol for all countries in Europe, which are members of Eurocontrol. I don't know. Maybe some aren't members of Eurocontrol. The funds resulting from the fees for flyover under these international law rules, which are very strict and whose expenditure is subject to the rules laid down, can be used exclusively to finance the operations of the Agency and the Directorate (for workers, fees, contributions and taxes, operating costs, material costs, depreciation, investment and membership in Eurocontrol). It's the law. The total revenues of the Aviation Control Agency are also entered by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. Credits are used to modernise and restore infrastructure. One of those loans is now being used for that agency building at the airport. Each year in June, Eurocontrol members propose a cost base (the amount they plan to operate in the next year). From June to October, compliance with Eurocontrol and air carriers takes place when planned costs are displayed, as well as projections of the expected number of different services to be carried out by flight control. It shall also verify the regularity of the accounting records, the value of the assets and the eligibility of the costs. In November, a cost and cost base is adopted for next year. The costs are regularly justified by Eurocontrol, as the budget approved is dedicated to the pre-planned costs. We can't use those funds, believe me, three days ago I said this, using it for other purposes than what I read about here from the law and the rules of Eurocontrol. Eurocontrol is a serious European organisation and I understand it that way. As for the board of directors and objections to the board of directors, I must tell you that I don't care at all about being a member of any board of directors. I've never asked for it in my life, but in order not to, if we had a group of experts, then we'd have to go to government meetings regularly and bring in all these acts. That's why we put in five ministers, a quarter of the government to do the job. That's even good. I will suggest, as promised, no compensation. That's what I'm going to suggest at the first session. The law on public agencies, in Article 14(1), stipulates that members of the Management Board are officials, within the meaning of the law governing the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions, in Article 28(1) of the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency is prescribed that the official may perform only one public function unless the law and other regulations require him to perform public functions. Since the members of the defense and the Directorate are state officials, who are obliged to join the board of directors of the law, there can be no question of any conflict of interest. There's been a lot of comments about the departure and the inspection, so we don't talk right now, we all know what to do, but we also know the inspection. The inspection shall examine the implementation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions with direct insight into the business and conduct of natural and legal persons. Depending on the results of the work, they express the prescribed measures. The inspection as a method of security of surveillance removes the safety hazard, but is not touched by the legal position of the aircraft facility. Inspection, unlike verification, can never end with the permanent withdrawal of an individual legal act in which the aircraft facility is based this work. In Article 235, which is also highly criticised, it is prescribed that the first-degree administrative acts adopted by the Directorate in the administrative procedure may be made public by the appeal and by the minister responsible for traffic operations, in accordance with Article 12(1). The General Administrative Procedure Act, which stipulates that the solution adopted in the first instance of the party has the right to appeal. So many comments about what we've been doing here today. Of course, in the end, I want to thank you again and to confirm what I've already said, since 299 amendments, the government has adopted 84. I will propose some more, and I would like to remind you that this law is of systemic character and that it is important for further economic, economic and overall social progress, and that its adoption has a strategic objective in terms of meeting one of the conditions for obtaining Serbia's EU membership candidate status. Once again, I claim that it is better to have a law than not to have one, which you have proven in the work of Parliament so far. I've learned a lot here once again, and I thank all the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45057	Thank you, Mr. Minister. These were your answers to the amendment. I'm closing the draft bill. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45058	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103 and with regard to Article 107, violation of dignity. One single sentence. Mr. Grouchy, we don't have one word here, your word against my word. My arguments are the Constitutional Court and the assessment of constitutionality against the referendums written by your associates, whose professionalism and surface I have proved here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45059	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. You just took the opportunity to say your point of view. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on PLOVIDBA AND LUKAM TO INTERMEDIUM VODOMS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Dragan Marković Palma, Jasmina Milosevic, Petar Petrovic, Zoran Šami, Milan Avramović, Mirko Munjic, Nikola Savić, Radiša Ilic, Dragan Stevanović, Olena Papuga, Vjerica Radeta, Goran Mihajlović, Sreto Perić, Srboljub Živanovic, Zoran Krasic, Radica Jocic, Aleksandar Martinović, Dusanka Plećić and a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Group, as well as the Committee of Traffic and Connections. You received a notice from the 21st People's MP group "Forward Serbia" to withdraw amendments to Articles 214, 217, 225, 207, 233 and 279, which were submitted on 5 October 2010 at 10.10 p.m. and to inform MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Peter Petrovic to withdraw the amendments they submitted together to members 214, 217 and 230. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search in principle. In accordance with Article 157(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on internal navigation. The amendment to Article 4 of this Act refers to the definition of the concept of maximum speed that ships can move. In fact, here in the bill, it is said that ships can move at a maximum speed that is 40 and more kilometers higher than water. I asked the amendment to define this concept in a better and closer way – the movement of the ship compared to the water. It is known to all of us that it is not the same when the ship is moving in the direction of the water movement and when it is moving in a direction that is opposite of the direction of the water movement. I simply asked for it to be defined a little bit, to be more specific. However, in light of which the Government did not accept this amendment, it states that this was defined by Convention 24 and that the speed was defined in relation to both directions. It's just technically impossible and technically impossible, because the speed in one direction and the other direction is not the same. After all, we all learned, at least in elementary school, from physics relative and absolute speed, i.e. relative and absolute motion. Here is the absolute speed of the ship's movement because the ship is moving along the water that is also moving and has its speed. However, with you everything is relative, so is the life and health of our citizens, and I really am not surprised that you treat yourself like this when it comes to the health and life of the president of our party, Mr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45061	Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, in order to support a good amendment submitted by Mr. Savic, I would like to add, in addition to the arguments he gave regarding his amendment, when we were also in the debate's announcement in principle predetermined to remove these amendments of technical ambiguity and insufficiently well-defined solutions to the issue of navigation and port on internal waters, especially for that part of our working people and citizens who deal with this work on all our internal waters. The complexity of technical issues is high, and in particular the responsibility for performing internal navigation in this area, both for devices and for the technique that the navigation is carried out and any amendment that improves the text of the law in this regard is welcome. I must mention that Serbia's infrastructure in this area is incomplete, that there are many shortcomings that must be removed so that this law can be properly implemented and brought into line with international regulation. For example, Danube is, like the second longest river in Europe, our largest water river. There are now 11 port captains, from Bezdan, via Apatin, Backa Palanka, Novi Sad, Title, to Belgrade and Panchev, Smederev, Veliko Gradište, Kladov and Prahov and normally that all amendments, including the amendment of the respected Mr Savic, should contribute to the fact that solutions relating to the implementation of the law on this Danube infrastructure must be technically done perfectly. For all of them, especially for ports, captains and ports, where the state and border crossing is, for waterways and national flags in international traffic, as well as for waterways and foreign flags that sail or sail into international waters, this time the laws and amendments are seriously, responsibly and coherently defined all conditions of navigation on internal waterways. If it is added that there are ten bridges on the Danube with special conditions for sailing beneath it, it is the fact that only on it, therefore, in the Danube, 578 ships of the Republic of Serbia and ten times more ships of foreign flags, and that on our other waterways, more than 8,500 vessels, various total strengths and loadability, then it is clear that this law and amendments to that law must be justified and put into effect a proper and functional proposal for a solution. The PUPS Group supported concrete technical and scientificly reasoned amendments to all political groups that significantly repair essential, technical and legal solutions in the operation of inland water navigation and in the construction and operation of water infrastructure, such as ports, ports, marinas, overruns and everything else. Serbia has made a strong commitment by accepting a very important Danube initiative, which has become our biggest business opportunity, not only in the area of internal and external navigation, but also in the area of energy, due to the construction of a hydrocentre on the Drina and Ibra, the construction of Đerdap III, but also because of the industrial and agrarian and tourist needs. This law must finally open the direct link between the Rayna – Main – Danube and the Black Sea via the Danube. In this sense, local self-government and in Podunavlje, near Somboro and Apatin, through Sremski Karlovac, Title, Veliko Gradište, Golubac, Kladov and Negotina, this law gives them an open, clearly defined way to fully participate in the construction of infrastructure necessary for internal navigation and ports and for criteria of strict international community conditions or our harmonised legal regulations. The PUPS parliamentary group supports amendments that promote the development of water traffic, as well as the construction of ports and ports of special interest for the state of Serbia, on all its waterways and support amendments that will be made even closer to categorising international, interstate and state waterways, as well as any other technical solutions that must be met in this area. We support and ask for amendments to Article 19(1) to be discussed today, which "in order to technically improve the conditions of navigation, ship's translation, dams, winters, anchors and regulated buildings, coasts, forts and other facilities are defined as safe navigation". We support amendments that achieve a higher level and higher level of obligation and responsibility for those who could cause harmful and aggressive phenomena on internal waters by spilling harmful substances.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45063	Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. And this amendment has been accepted by the Government and the Transport and Connection Committee. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45064	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I apologize to the chairman and Mr. Secretary, but I have an overwhelming need to make two minutes of a digression. On Sunday, we all got beat up, in a conveyed sense, of course. And we're all defeated. Today, there was a conversation of the deaf in the congregation. I have to say, let's not change the thesis. No one normally condemns violence against Serbian citizens, officials, i.e. The police and no one normal will defend the destruction and violation of the city, state and private property. That kind of physical terror won't be defended by anyone. But besides physical terror, we've been exposed to one kind of mental terror for days. Of course it's everyone's right to do whatever they want in their bedroom. But don't make homosexualism a virtue, because it's not a virtue. And especially do not, what particularly offends me, is that this whole event is interpreted as an attitude for Europe, interpreted as a European value. Those numerous foreign MPs who spoke at the event said so that they would certainly not say so in their own country. Our trouble is that instead of being partners, the EU treats us as a colony held there by a Zulu tribe, so it can do this. Our government says, y'all, fine, let's go a little bit more. I grew up on European values. When I was a kid, I listened to Radio Luxembourg to hear a new song that couldn't be heard with us. The European values are Gete, Isaac Newton, Leonardo da Vinci, Maria Kiri, Mendeljeev, or, if you will, in the politics of De Gaulle or Brant. These are European values. What we are looking at as a cobajagi of some European value, these are not European values. And if they are, they shouldn't be. I'd like to return to the amendment to Article 7. We have submitted an amendment requesting that Article 7 of the 2nd and 4th paragraphs be deleted. In fact, it refers to the provision that the AP is competent on state waterways in the territory of the State, and on all other state roads, it is natural, authorised legal person for the technical maintenance of national waterways which, of course, implies, is logically belonging to the territory on which this state waterway is located. It is clear that the traffic in Tamis will not be regulated by the Uzicans, such as the Nišli traffic on the Drina. So what's the difference? I understand that there are jobs and responsibilities to be transferred to the AP, but, you'll allow, there are areas where it's not good. Traffic is one of those areas. There's no need for that. Of course the locals will take care of the maintenance of these roads, you don't even have to write it. Of course someone who lives in Banata will deal with Tamish, and that's understood. But there's no need for this jurisdiction to be transferred to the AP. If this amendment were to be accepted, then it would be necessary to correct many more members – 10, 13, 14, 15, 19, 22, 24, 31, 32, 35, 37, 38, 57. These are all members mentioning this transfer of jurisdiction on the state waterways of the AP. It seems completely unnecessary and essentially wrong to me. Unfortunately, the government did not accept this amendment and I only said this to ease my soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45065	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposals for laws on navigation and ports on internal waters. Namely, my thinking about this member fits well with what Mr. Shami was now saying here. This member refers to shipping inspection tasks and I asked for this member to be re-formed and it is said that "inspection tasks on roads that belong to the autonomous province are carried out by inspectors of the autonomous province, as trusted jobs, and on other roads by inspectors appointed by the minister responsible for traffic operations". In fact, there's one fact that needs to be clarified here. When it comes to roads that are entirely on the territory of Vojvodina, it is not disputed that these jobs are done by people from Vojvodina, but what about those roads that represent the border between the AP, in this case Vojvodina, because it alone has water rivers, the other Autonomous province of Kosovo has no water rivers. Will, for example, at Savi near Šapco, on the one hand, these tasks be done by the republican authorities, and only across the street, on the side where Ruma is or I don't already know which city, will these tasks be done by the inspection bodies of the Autonomous Province? It means that exactly the paths that are entirely on the territory of the province and the roads that represent the border of the province and the rest of the Republic are defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45067	The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45068	Dear Ministers and members of the ministry, I will speak of all my amendments, I will unite them, as they relate to the same problem. The amendments I have made relate to amendments to Articles 8, 10, 11, 41 and 42 of the proposed law and mainly to the harmonisation of the proposed law with Article 30. The Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, among other things, and the Decision establishing the JP "Vode Vojvodina", which specifies the effectiveness of this issue concerning navigation and water in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Among other things, Article 30. The Law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina contains the fact that it regulates and provides for inland navigation transport, navigation safety, conditions and method of use, maintenance, marking and protection of inland waterways, other than inland waterways on which international and interstate navigation arrangements, ports, docks, anchors, boats and floating facilities apply and operations in the event of a shipping accident on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The statement in the explanation you gave about not accepting these amendments is good. You said that water traffic has great importance for the Republic of Serbia, which is quite justified, but in all of this you did not take into account the fact that water traffic is also vital to the AP Vojvodina, given that there are over 90% of waterways in the AP Vojvodina territory, we mean the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem. The Tis and Begei interstate rivers have been running through the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the AP Vojvodina for most of the coast, 80% on the international rivers Sava and Danube in their flow through the Republic of Serbia. On the territory of the AP Vojvodina is the majority of port potentials and the most significant international ports of the Republic of Serbia are located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. For these reasons, the participation of the province's authorities in the creation of water traffic is necessary and is of particular interest to the AP Vojvodina, thus also to the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters does not pay attention to the province's authorities and to the granting of their consent provided for by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, or Article 30, so I ask you once again to pay attention to all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45069	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45070	Article 8 speaks of water traffic development strategies and plans and predicts that the long-term development of water transport is regulated by a water transport development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which is carried out over a period of ten years. Mr. Minister, we think that this member should be changed by adding that in exceptional cases this strategy can be complemented if there is a particular need for it. You said you couldn't accept it because the strategy, as you say, can change without introducing this material provision. We don't think that's good, nothing can be understood, everything has to be regulated by law. I am quite confident that you would accept this amendment, as I was sure that you would accept those amendments that we have submitted to the previous law, especially those relating to the legal-language order, where we insisted on Serbian language in our laws, but I am afraid that the problem is that Mrs. Komic today did not take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, so she did not warn you how you as a representative of the Government could accept the amendments, because at the end of the debate on the previous law, you said that you would accept some more amendments. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, you can't do this anymore, because it is our Rules of Procedure, which is restrictive, that you too can't accept the amendment, just because Gordana Komic missed this morning to warn you when you as a minister can do it, that is because Mrs. Komic didn't take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which is something that is subject to a warning and I expect Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic will now give a warning to Mrs. Comic about it. Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, I know you didn't listen to me, look at the stenogram, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45071	The minister sits here, listens and can accept all amendments. There, among other things, is to take our suggestions again and eventually accept the amendments. I can't be in two places either. So I can't even check what you're asking me to do and be here and run the session. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that today's break will be from 13:30 to 15.00 hours, so 90 minutes, to coordinate the work. Also, in line with my business ability, I'm extending my work until this point is over, and that may be after 6:00. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45072	When Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was vice president of the National Assembly, he was always the most tolerated atmosphere and you are both what he can't say and what he can't say – he can, it works that way because you are such a man of good faith. We have a situation here that is perfectly correct for Radeta's colleague to inform you, Mr. Minister. If you have a good will, you can plead by the end of the amendment debate, even though you didn't do it before the government sat down and gave its report, that you want to accept the amendment of fellow Radete. That your statement of post-festum before us will be a signal to the ruling majority that tonight, in voting day, they accept it. You can no longer automatically, by accepting yourself, to incorporate that amendment into the text of the law. If he wants to accept it, then you'll invite them to your conscience, and I don't know who won't listen to you, Mr. Grouchy, I guess everyone will.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45073	Mr. Mrkonjic will use a break to reconsider all your suggestions and will inform us after a break about his position on the matter. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45074	As part of the second part of this proposal for a law on navigation and ports, which we are discussing today, there are also three members who organise the strategy and plans for the development of water transport. These are members 8, 9 and 10. Article 8 refers to a long-term 10-year strategy brought by the Government. Article 9 says that this strategy further develops short, medium-term and long-term plans, but what I think is the greatest illogicality, this is Article 10(1), which reads: "business related to the development of international and interstate waterways is brought by the Waterways Directorate, with the authority of the Ministry". It is even more illogical that Article 2 says plans relating to the development of state waterways are brought by the ministry. I'd like to ask now what's the logic that the Directorate is bringing international plans, and the Ministry of State? So Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as a well-known neimar and bridge builder, I guess he knows when some of the bombed bridges were supposed to be repaired, it's logical that it was brought by the government, and the Directorate and other services were conducting it. I therefore propose to amend this Article. It should read - plans related to the development of international and interstate waterways are carried out by the Ministry, based on which their technical maintenance, improvement, transport and technological modernisation is carried out by the Water Roads Directorate. This would be much more logical because, as we know, there is a hierarchy in every area, so by changing this amendment, it would be much more logical than the one that the Proposer pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45075	The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45076	Mr. Minister, engineer Mrkonjic, your generation will remember you as someone before the deadline, but I want to make a contribution to your memory and as a man who fought for the preservation of the Serbian language. You know, it's very important to us. One state is not only destroyed by the "death of the state" Parole, so the minister stands under it, and instead of shutting down immediately, or taking it silently, excluded it and called on the police to intervene already there, he gave the approval there. It's not that important, but it's important that we replace the word "naper" with one word of Serbian language that you'll all understand. You remember, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, when Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic said that commenting and representing some laws on behalf of the government does not require any particular knowledge, we need laws that most Serbian citizens will understand, and of course those whose profession it is, they must also apply them, not only can they understand them. This amendment, which we have submitted, refers to article 19, which refers to navigation security facilities. The object is something that created the subject. Of course, there are certain objects made of nature. We're not talking about this right now, we're talking about those who created the subject. In order to fight and preserve the facilities, we must first show that we are interested in the subjects, and one of the subjects, and in the proudest sense, is SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I am not appealing to you as Minister of Government, but as a man who, along with the SRS MPs, should give one attempt for the Serbian public to know what this is about in The Hague tribunal, because we will not, neither will Dr. Vojislav Seselj, to appeal to one of the governments whose president was originally the man who said - take him away and do not return him. This isn't much different than that right now. Such a government will certainly do nothing to take care of its citizen, although it is bound by the Constitution and you know it well, so I ask you as a man, not as a minister of this government, but as a man to work together with us to make the public of Serbia and the wider world public understand what this is about. We'll thank you for that, and as a minister, you don't have to intervene at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45077	The Serbian Radical Party no longer has the extra time, but only the time foreseen for the amendments. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The national MPs Nikola Savic and Zoran Shami submitted to the 41st Amendment in the same text. Mr. Shami wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41, and it is practically the same meaning as the amendment to Article 43 and the article, I think, 109. It's about the next one. Those members are predicted to treat ships flying the flag of a member of the EU by a different procedure than other ships. In other words, they have more rights than ships that sail, for example, under Norwegian, Swiss, Turkish, Russian flags, etc. In doing so, to make things more paradoxical, it is predicted in law, in Article 290, that... (Milutine Mrkonjic, from place: Accepted.) () What has been accepted? Amendments? But it doesn't say. Okay, that's usually nice to meet you, but allow me one comment. Otherwise, I was talking about us and Europe having to build partnership for the simplest reason that not only as a state, we have an interest in entering the EU under certain, of course, normal conditions, but also in the EU, of course, has an interest in meeting us there one day. However, if we give them all the benefits in advance, as if we are in the EU, of course the opposite benefits are not in the opposite direction, then I do not see any reason why the EU is in a hurry to take us there. Why? So the idea was simply to delete these members, so when we enter the EU in "en" years, then we'll make some legal corrections at the very end of the line. These laws are not forever. So much, if I keep the minister's word that he's accepted these amendments, then so much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45079	Here, let's tell Mr Savic that the amendment has been accepted, it's the same text. Does Mr. Savic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45080	To thank Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic for accepting this amendment. But, Mr. Mrkonjic, given the nature of the amendments, I'm afraid you'll have problems in your coalition. In fact, the bill required that foreign vessels, without any restrictions, sail our inner waters, and it was really insane, that's what Mr Shami said, that someone who gives us nothing or almost nothing, we give everything. That is why EU vessels should be subject to the same rules as all others and it is good that the government has adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45081	The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 41st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on sailing and on the ports of internal waters and on a member of this 44th law. In fact, Article 44 speaks about when a permit is granted to a foreign vessel for the transport of passengers and things between domestic ports, i.e. domestic ports. In the light of the conditions under which it is done in one place, it is said – if this requires the general interest of the domestic economy. The general interest of the domestic economy is a questionable concept when it comes to passenger transport. The SRS considers that when it comes to the transport of passengers that under no circumstances can there be general interest in domestic economy, let's say when it comes to the transport of goods and things, in certain situations we may not have qualified vessels for certain types of cargo, but I assume that our river shipping owns ships capable of transporting passengers between domestic ports and that it cannot be of general interest to do so by foreign vessels. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic didn't listen to me, but I think maybe this amendment should be accepted. Mr. Mrkonjic, it cannot be of general interest for foreign vessels to transport passengers between domestic ports. After all, we have a river traffic, at least a passenger river traffic, not being developed to the extent that there are a huge number of passengers, so let's just not have some domestic vessels to satisfy it. Anyway, we have at least so many vessels that can satisfy this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45083	The 45th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45084	Unfortunately, the government did not understand the point of this amendment, so they tried to deal with the synonyms to say that the word - more, referring to the flag, means the same thing as if the flag were said to be snaked, pointed out, raged, etc. However, the purpose of this amendment was not only that, but it was to correct and specify something that is the initial sentence of Article 47, which is a foreign vessel on the domestic waters of RS. The amendment proposed that it be a foreign vessel during navigation and stay on the internal waters of the RS. Okay, that's not a basic grudge. It certainly is a word – more professional, slangonical, which is used there. However, they did not understand the point of this amendment and what to do. It's not even the first time, it won't be the last time. But we do have a situation like that White Ship show, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. A man goes to the King's place, and there's an oatmeal yacht or a boat, or some boat, and he goes to the Port Captain's office in Pancheva, takes his license for a liter of forest brandy, and he has no idea if he needs to wave the flag, whether he's hanging, if he's angry. He's never even been on a boat. And when you say to him, “A vessel on the water, it is hard for him to understand it.” I'm counting on Sinisa Pavić in this White Ship series to make it so interesting for us that we're all going to have a good laugh at how cruel our reality is, especially when some good uncle comes, you'll get permission to run boats, boats and other things. The joke aside, the interesting thing is that much more attention is being taken to ships, boats, waterbeds, as you say, than about our citizen who is eight years in custody and where we all have the right to suspect that something bad is happening, and you who ignore this topic almost as if you were complicit and involved in the direct transfer of something wicked.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45085	The 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 65th Law on sailing and ports on internal waters. I asked this member to rephrase. What was I looking for that for? Because the member is completely contradictory. I'll tell you why. This Article 65 speaks of the actions to be taken by the master of the vessel in the event of the release, release or spill of harmful substances into the water or waterway. However, I must say the following: drop and drop are the actions that are done on purpose, with a purpose, with a certain purpose, and now you are still looking at the law – who throws out and releases the substances harmful to inform the nearest port captain. It's absurd to expect from someone who's done some damage, did some damage to turn himself in. It's just impossible. When it comes to spilling harmful matter, it's something else. The spilling is an action that is done beyond the will of the commander of the vessel and puts it in a different plane. In that situation, the nearest port captainate should be informed and as close as possible to locate the coordinates where it was done. That's why this member should be separated and these three things separated, because they're essentially completely different.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45087	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami to article 104. Since it's 13:30, we're taking a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation. [[After break – 15/05]] Let's get back to work. The 134th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 207th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Mr. Igor Becic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45089	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, I will explain this amendment in front of the SNS and try to convince the promoter to adopt it. I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 27. It's a bill, because it's Article 2. The public agency law stipulates that the Agency should be established if it can be primarily financed from the price paid by the service users. However, Article 228, which prescribes funds for the Agency's work, shows that the agency does not generate revenues from its services, but by charging fees for ports and ports that are public tax revenues, belonging to the budget. The payment of public tax revenues by the public agency and on its own behalf and for its own account and, at the same time, the fixing of the rates of those fees does not comply with Articles 4, 91 and 92. The Constitution and the Law on the Budgetary System. Therefore, and the question arises, whether the conditions for the establishment of this agency are met at all, because this does not achieve the objective of setting up it that must be better and more effective, for which the objectives certainly include lower costs. The objective of this amendment is to bring the bill into line with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. The inability of the government, the arrogance, the growing social and economic catastrophe, the government acting as an elephant in a glass shop and whose desire is only to increase the state administration, increase public spending and rob Serbian citizens. Finally, I would ask the President of Parliament – does he know if the members of the government have received this book that has been shared with us? We see that most of the laws that come into congregation procedure, and some of the members of these bill, are in collegiate with the Constitution. If they are not divided into members of the Government, let them give one copy of the bill to the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45090	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami to article 214. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 214th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all aware that behind us is a very stupid and criminally done privatisation in Serbia, that there have been terrible mistakes in the privatisation process and that one of the victims and ports along the Danube River, above all, of course. Unfortunately, in this bill, there is an attempt by the ministry to make part of those injustices, which the SNS agrees with, in part, that corrections have been made. What's the problem with the SNS perspective is that, in the privatisation process, in the previous period, we had over 700 broken contracts, which is most of these companies, which have experienced that the privatisation deal is broken, went into bankruptcy, and which is obviously one serious review of privatisation is needed. It is unacceptable for each ministry to decide for itself what part of the company or which industries to exempt from the privatisation process. So we have to have one comprehensive law that will carry out a privatisation review in the previous period. We've lost hundreds of thousands of jobs, lost a lot of businesses. It is not only a problem with ports that current owners now intend to turn these areas into city building land and give up on the purpose of the ports. The problem is in other businesses across Serbia, where businesses are being closed, and workers are being fired. They are built, first of all, residential and business facilities. In this way, the work of all these companies is significantly changed. We are losing an economy that employs thousands of workers throughout Serbia. Advocating the SNS is that once a serious review of privatisation as many correcting all those injustices. There's a lot of them in the privatisation process. In fact, this Article 214 audits privatisation, i.e. one deprivatisation, as it has been returning to the situation since 25 May 2003. In fact, it is the right of the present owners to change the purpose of the land that makes it impossible to make an exception and precedent, and also means the lack of a legal order. It is a precedent that is unacceptable in a legally arranged society. The SNS proposal and in this article, as well as in Article 217, which is on the same topic, the subject of reprivatisation, where we have submitted the amendment, is aimed at pointing out to the public that this government, as it does, solves the problems of privatisation to certain ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45092	I have checked indeed, this book that is actually a set of regulations, which contains the Constitution, constitutional law, the Law on the Assembly, our Rules of Procedure and the single methodology for regulations, has been given to every member of Parliament, as many MPs as there are. Of course, they've also got ministers in the government, so you'll be interested in the heads of Parliament. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to Article 214 of the amendment by the Committee on Transport and Communications. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45093	Dear President, maybe we didn't get along well. I asked – did they get members of the Government, because we see that certain laws and individual members of some laws that come into the procedure are not in accordance with the Constitution, are in collegiate with the Constitution. I asked you to make this effort to present to the members of the government the Constitution at the expense of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45094	In any case, the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of any act is a matter of those who initiate the proceedings and of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your comments. It's simple, they're not in our jurisdiction. On Article 217, the amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Shami and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to Article 217 of the amendment by the Committee on Transport and Communications. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 224 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 225th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45095	Just to point out that this member of the law, Article 225, is in collegiate with the General Administrative Procedure Act. If you take someone's approval, he is a party and must participate in the process of withdrawing that authorisation. Without giving the party the opportunity to participate in this process, you are in a situation where you are in collegiate with some basic laws, with Serbia's legal order, and we thought it should be pointed out to the government. We're sorry there was no understanding on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45096	The 230th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 230 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Transport and Communications. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 233rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr Anticu, do you want a word? No, I don't. All right. Mr. Nikola Savic? No, I don't. ) On Article 279 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Zoran Babic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45097	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Minister, disputed Article 279. The bill provided for funds for the operation of the safety inspection of navigation depends on the number and severity of the submitted and resolved, although it is better to say, the registered applications submitted by that very same inspection. This legal solution is not known in parallel law and is contrary to EU principles. I would really like you, Mr. Minister, to enlighten us and tell us - what is the legal foothold for such a proposal? Such a foothold will be difficult to find, especially because such a legal proposal is contrary to Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, due to conflicts of interest that applicants have, also users of the funds from charged applications and members of the commission that judges for violations. Also, this provision does not comply with Article 32. The constitution, which stipulates that everyone has the right to an independent and impartial court to debate and decide on the indictment against him, because a commission composed of staff in the ministry whose employee and applicant of the application is also not and cannot, in my opinion, be an impartial court. Such a legal solution, which is in style – the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges, is not in line with the Budget Law, where Article 19 is prescribed that the penalties are the public revenue of Serbia's budget and that income cannot be predetermined by individual law for individual purposes. The funds for the operation of the safety inspection of navigation shall be determined by the Budget Law in each individual year, not by percentage of the penalties charged. I call upon you to accept the amendment of the SNS, without your employees at the Ministry norming and disrupting in any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45098	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami to Article 284. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45099	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposal for a law on navigation and ports on internal waters provides for full harmonisation of domestic legislation with relative, secondary sources of law, as well as a large number of resolutions and conventions adopted by the UN Economic Commission for Europe, as well as protocols, recommendations and decisions made by the Danube Commission and the International Commission for the Flow of the Sava River. The law contains two parts, we saw, and eight chapters, with a total of 291 members. The draft laws on navigation and ports on inland waters took part and had the opportunity to declare all interested parties, and in particular economic operators participating in internal water transport. A total of nine were adopted on the proposal for a shipping law and ports on internal waters. The amendments are not essential, but are aimed at improving the text and are accepted. Today, at the break of this session, we have accepted three more amendments, to Article 8(2) of Ms. Verica Radete, paragraph 2. Zorana Shamija and member 54th position of the 4th Mrs. Radice Jocic. Therefore, the bill will have a positive impact on a significant increase in the level of respect for safe navigation, and the work of inspection will have a significant impact on the order, safety and safety of waterways. The application of the bill will achieve the arrival on the domestic market of shipowners whose fleet meets today's applicable technical requirements that ships must meet and allow port operators to enter the new port services market. In general, conditions will be created for the development of the river economy. I thank all MPs for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-12-0.u45100	After we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This concludes this part of the agenda. After having completed the debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine on 12 October 2010 starting at 18.30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I also call on MEPs to attend the opening of an exhibition of portraits of the President of Parliament from 1920 until now. Mr. Minister, I thank you and your associates for your participation in the work. I especially thank the Members of the People and those who are applicants of the amendments. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, the exhibition is at 6:00, so, half an hour before the vote. [[After break – 18:45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for work, exists in the day of voting if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the electronic voting system units. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 126 MPs are in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON BUDGETS SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 126 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Having accepted the proposal in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 2nd amendment together. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. Amendment not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. Amendment not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Konstantin Samofalov. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 121 MPs voted for it. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 128 MPs, 121 MPs voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. Amendment not accepted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by Konstantin Samofalov. Of the 128 MPs, the amendment voted 16. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, 107 MPs voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 128 MPs, 117 MPs voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Momo Colaković and Milisav Petronijevic. Of the 128 MPs, 19 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, 111 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 16th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Of the 128 MPs, 11 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 23 of the 128 MPs be added after article 23, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Konstantin Samofalov. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 33. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Radojko Obradovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Munir Poturak. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by Vitomir Mihajlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vitomir Mihajlovic and Bajram Šehovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. I remind you that the amendment provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as set out in their adoption. In the light of the above, the applicant stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists of the fact that this law introduces significant changes in the budget system, which, above all, consists in introducing fiscal responsibility. In view of the above, I note that by deciding on the amendment, the National Assembly will at the same time determine whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I remind you that it takes 126 MPs to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the amendment. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly and thus found that there were particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law by the Constitution of the established deadline. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF ACCREDITATION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft accreditation law to the vote, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted for the law in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 13a of the amendment, which is added after Article 13a, a group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I'm putting the draft accreditation law to the vote, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted for the law in general. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on accreditation. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF CONSUMER PROTECTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft consumer protection law to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted for the law in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Vladan Jeremic, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 86. Proposal for a law, submitted on 4 October 2010, at 3:30 p.m. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Judita Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Judita Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 120 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 115 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted in the same text by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and together Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 27th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, added after Chapter 6 by the new chapter 7 together was submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The name of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 83 was submitted by Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by Lydia Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 84th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 85th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic to article 86. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, added after article 86, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 87, the amendment was submitted by Lydia Dimitrijevic of 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 87 of the amendment by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 88th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment has been submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 91st Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarević. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which was added after article 91, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 94th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 95th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 99th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment to Article 102. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 107th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 113. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new head of X and new members from 123a to 123t, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which added a new Chapter XI and new members after Article 123, was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new chapter of X, a new title and a new member of 123a, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123b, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123v, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123g, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123d, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123dj, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123a, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123z, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123z, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123i, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123j, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123k, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123l, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123lj, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123m, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123n, was submitted in the same text by lawmakers Aleksandra Jankovic and together Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123n, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which added a new title and a new member of 123o, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123p, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123r, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123s, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of 123t, was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. Member of the 124th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 129th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 129th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment to Chapter XIII was submitted by Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 137 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 137th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 143 by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Gentlemen, after we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on consumer protection in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Consumer Protection Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AIR COMMUNITY LAW As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft air traffic law to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted for the law in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. National MP Gordan Rajkov, during a search in particular, withdrew amendments to Articles 127, 128 and 258, with a correction. Since the Committee on Transport and Relationships has accepted the amendments to the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendments to the Government are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, an integral part of the Bill's proposal became an amendment to the Government: to Article 3; to Article 5; to Article 8; to Article 11; to Article 11; to Article 15; to Article 15; to Article 17; to Article 31; to Article 39; to Article 64; to Article 64; to Article 65; to Articles 72, 151, 151, 165, 169, and 234; to Articles 78, 79, 84, 86, 86, 259, and 260; to Article 83; to Article 91; to Article 95; to Article 127; to Article 127; to Article 131; to Article 131; to Article 13; to Article 7 to Chapter 7 to Article 138; to Article 139; to Article 139; to Article 139; to Article 152; to Article 152; to Article 152 to Article 152 to Article 152; to Article 152; to Article 15; to Article III to Article 15; to Article 219; to Article 25; to Article 25; to Article 25; to Article 25; to Article 2 to Article 253 to Article 25; to Article 2. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Article 5. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dusan Maric tabled an amendment proposing a change in the title of the head two above Article 14. Of 129 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radisa Ilic submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Article 25. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 29 and 29. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 36 and 36. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vladan Jeremic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 43 and 43. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Pai Momcilov submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 45 and 45 of the 1st and 2nd of the first and second paragraphs of Article 45. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 46 and 46 of Article 1. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 49 and 49. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 49th amendment. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above Articles 52 and 52. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 59 and 59 of the 1st and 2nd centuries. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 61 and 61. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that the title be deleted above Articles 64 and 64 of Article 1. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above members 64 and members 64. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 65th amendment. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 65th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 66th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, together submitted an amendment proposing amendments in Articles 72, 151, 155, 169 and 234. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Marko Milenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the subtitle above Articles 75 and 75. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan M. Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitle above Articles 76 and 76. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vitomir Plužarević submitted an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitle above Articles 77 and 77. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Đeric, together submitted an amendment proposing amendments in Articles 78, 79, 84, 85, 86, 259, item 1 point 7) and 260. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 78th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 78th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 80th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 83rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 86th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Marina Toman has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitle above Articles 95 and 95 of Article 1. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 95th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 98th. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 98. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitles above Articles 99 and 99, pages 2, 3 and 4. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 104 by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic to Article 109. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Žutic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitles above Articles 112 and 112. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 114th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 118th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted the amendment to Article 124. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 127. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 128 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 128. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure under the review of the bill in particular, accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 113. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 129th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 131st amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 150th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 112. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 151st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 152 by MP Radica Jocic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 154th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 155th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of the subtitle above the article. 157th and Art. Article 157(1) Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 159th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 159, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 161st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the name Section 5 and Article 168. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 169 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 169th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic tabled an amendment proposing to delete the subtitles above Members 170 and Articles 170. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic submitted the amendment to Article 171. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 171 of the amendment, Siniša Stamenkovic submitted. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 171. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 128 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 173rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 174. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure under the review of the bill in particular, accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic to Article 174. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 174th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 174th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. Of 128 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing to delete subtitles above Articles 176 and 176. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 176, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 177th amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milan Veselinović submitted to Article 177 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted the amendment to Article 184. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 186 by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 188. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. Of the 128 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 189th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 189 of the amendment by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin to Article 189 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 189th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic to Article 189. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 191st amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 194. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 128 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. Of the 128 MPs, five voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted the amendment to Article 198. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 204th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 212th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 214th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 215. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 216th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 219th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 221st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric jointly proposed amendments in Articles 223, 231, 258 and 260. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 224th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 223rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 234th amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 234th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 235th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 235th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 238th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 238th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 238th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 239th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 241. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 129 MPs, 113 voted in favour. I understand we've adopted the amendment. The 241st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 244th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 245th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 246 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 247 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 248 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 249th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 250th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 251st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 255th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 255th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 256, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 257th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 258th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 258th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 258. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 129 MPs, 111 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 259 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 261st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 261st amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 263rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 264th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 265th amendment were submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 265th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 265th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 266th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 266th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 267th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on air traffic, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the law. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on air traffic. We move to item 5 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON FISHING AND LUKES IN THE INSIDE WATERS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on sailing and ports on internal waters, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 129 MPs, the amendment voted 7. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 129 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 106 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and MP Zoran Shami. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 129 MPs, four voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 129 MPs, 6 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 63rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 104th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 134th amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 207th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 214th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 214th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 214 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Transport and Communications. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that we have adopted this amendment. On Article 217 in the same text, the amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 217 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Transport and Communications. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami to Article 224. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 225th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, as well as by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 230 amendments were submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Article 230 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Transport and Connections. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 233rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 243rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 279th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 284th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on sailing and ports on internal waters, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on sailing and ports on internal waters. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Republic of Republic of Slovenia to protect the rights in the public procurement proceedings As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal for a decision, is decided by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the election of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the president of the Competition Protection Commission After the National Assembly has carried out a search and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 23. The law on competition protection, the president and members of the Competition Protection Council elect most votes from the total number of MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vesna Jankovic as president of the Competition Protection Commission. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly elected Vesna Jankovic, president of the Competition Protection Commission, most of the votes. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President of the Competition Protection Commission on the election and wish her much success in her work. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – The list of members of the Competition Protection Board After the National Assembly has conducted a search and before moving to a decision, I remind you once again that, according to Article 23. The Competition Protection Act, members of the Competition Protection Council, elect most of the votes of the total number of MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly elected Professor Vesna Besarovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council, among the majority of the votes. I am voting on the proposal to elect Prof. Dr. Sanja Graic Stepanovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please let us be clear about this proposal. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly has chosen Prof. Dr. Sanju Graic Stepanovic as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Gordana Lukic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly has chosen Gordana Lukic as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Ugrin as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly has elected Ivan Ugrin as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Board of the Competition Protection Commission in the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. We move on to a decision on the injuries made by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 4 October 2010, at 4:30 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Radojko Obradovic, at a session on 4 October 2010, at 1633, pointed to a violation of article 71. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of 129 MPs, one for. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 5 October 2010, at 11:15 p.m., pointed to Article 27's injury and to Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 129 MPs none for. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Zoran Ostojic, at a session on 5 October 2010, at 11.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not citing a member to whom the injury relates. Please decide if the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 5 October 2010, at 11.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 107, 103 and 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you for your cooperation.
