ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48757	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the Committee on Science and Technological Development has accepted that the finance ministry is in charge of this loan to the Development Bank. Serbia's only sustainable position in the 21st century is to participate in high-knowledge dams. The vision of the Republic of Serbia, as an innovative country in which scientists achieve European and world results, will contribute to the overall level of knowledge of society and to the improvement of technological developments in economy and economy. This loan would be used primarily to make apartments for young scientists and researchers and under two, to buy equipment. I must honestly tell you that, on the Committee on Science, Prof. Dr. Nedeljković plastically and for example showed the evolution of the building of apartments 15 years ago and all the shortcomings and hardships, and we can say the malversions that followed this project. In this year, when a new project cycle of science and technological development is to be realized, all with the aim of bringing together the most talented young researchers, internationally recognised scientists, it is a figure of four thousand new researchers, of which 1,700 are already included in the new project cycle. During this time, SRS MPs declared that there should be no politicisation here when reporting young researchers, and also when dividing apartments to any form of use. We remember when DOS came to power and then Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic, a man of questionable moral and professional qualities, resigned to a regular professor of Law Faculty, one of the most important people of today, Prof. Vojislav Seselj for political indifference. The supply equipment must also be owned by the Ministry of Science, i.e. it must be in one place. There have been comments that these funds can also be used by other university centres, that these funds obtained from the World Bank can also be controlled by the Ministry, as it seems to me that the practice so far has shown that the funds have been used without certain control, but we must note that when giving these funds are undermined that these funds cannot be used for any other purpose. So it took this loan to come into the right hands and to be used in the most pathetic way, both for building apartments and for getting equipment. During the report, Professor Nedeljkovic of the Ministry of Science explained that during the 15 years, such use of these funds was in one hand and misused, so that young scientists could not have been expressed, and you know well that these basic disasters happening today in Serbia are not only elemental disasters such as earthquakes, floods, but elemental disasters that have occurred especially scientific institutes. You know that a team of young scientists has left the country or is preparing to leave the country because of the government's poor policy, especially the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, where 0.3% of gross domestic products stand out for science. We believe that the government must pay more attention to young people, because only this way can raise prosperity in the country, or restore trust in the economy and economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48758	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48759	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to say that I am very upset by the way the Assembly has been working for the last few days, especially yesterday and today. At the same time, I see a public campaign is being launched about how many MPs it takes to have a Assembly, and I see that the government has responded very clearly that it does not need the National Assembly at all. As for governments, such - democratic ones, the National Assembly should have just zero MPs. This is how the government reports to the National Assembly on how much it thinks it is worth the work of the MPs and all of us here together, and in fact, gentlemen of the government, we should ask you: are you aware that you are in a democratic state, are you aware that you are destroying all democratic assets and are you aware of how much it costs Serbia a working day in the National Assembly? The fact that on Thursday, none of the ministers found a way to come here, that this morning, too, no one found a way to come here, how ministers behave with pride, how they spend people's money, shows that they actually regard the National Assembly as an unnecessary surplus to show Serbian citizens how they rule. Now I'm going to move on to a few of these ratifications, conventions and contracts, because I don't want to spend people's money and I want to talk about what the subject of today's agenda is, and the topic is a convention called the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Framework Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. I very much liked to have Mr Djelic here today, who should present what he plans to do with 35m euros in loans, because he wrote in his explanation: "This contract provides funds for the implementation of the Research and Development Project in the public sector, which provides for the implementation of activities aimed at revitalising and modernising research centres, establishing a new research centre, building accommodation facilities for students and young scientific workers and modernising the university computer network." It further writes in its explanation – loan funds, for which a 35m-euro application has been submitted, will be used to finance investments in scientific research equipment, for the purposes of institutes and laboratories, research institutions and for the construction of apartments for young research workers. I don't suppose that's the story that Minister Oliver Dulic is pushing with the construction of everything and everything. It'd all be very nice, but there are a few things we need to say here today before we start talking about it. One of these things is the campaign that the ministry of resolution with Mr. Djelic started, which is called "Serbia, a country of science and technology". So far, I've seen ministers in this government open up everything and everything, and Mr. Djelic has opened a billboard, believe it or not, i.e. A campaign that began with the opening of a billboard at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport in Belgrade. It is a billboard with a character of Nikola Tesla, and this, according to Mr Djelic, is a subtle but effective step that shows that Serbia's future is in the development of science and technology. I think he's very subtle, because no one will understand him. As effective as it is, we'll see when we talk more about this convention. At the same time, while all of this was happening at the airport, students strike before the Serbian government, those students representing children who have managed with a high average to pass their exams. The children failed to enroll in the budget study, failed to enter the list of those financed from the budget, as the education budget was somehow facilitated by three million for the party, following that famous parade of Serbia's pride. At the same time, another data came out, at the end of October of the month, the Bureau of Statistics, which stated that, compared to October 2009, alcohol drinks, tobacco, about 14.7% were the most expensive in October 2010, and immediately education by 13.1%). That's why I would recommend Mr Djelic, that he is here, and you can tell him, because I don't believe he's watching the Parliament's transfer, because he's not interested, I suppose, in Serbia, to create billboards where he will clearly write instructions to parents who have students and children in primary and high school, how with what he receives from the state or at his workplace and with so many unpaid bills, they will manage to educate their children in colleges, all with the consent of the state, and how they increase the tuition so that parents can't dream about how to educate their children. So, Mr Djelic, if he were here today, could answer the question of what kind of demagogy is he talking about Serbia as a country of science and technology, while the government, in which he is the Minister of Science and Minister of European Integration, is inkling holes in the budget with the collection of rakija, cigarettes and schooling of children? Is that a good basis for a fairy tale about Serbia as a country of science and technology? Not to mention the fact that everyone here ignores, which I should mention, that demographic Serbia is a country of old people, that 17.4% of the population, which is 1.3 million people, over 65 years old. It's a fact that someone might consider and do. Like "Serbia, a country of science and technology", he told Mr. Djelic the Dean of Law School Mr. Mirko Vasiljevic, addressing students at the "Student Bathing Days" conference. Be careful: "We need to open a story about how to strengthen the national education strategy and talk about the quality of obtaining accreditation, student programmes, funding education, material position of students. I hope there will be certain forces in Serbia that will support the attitudes of our students. "I wonder what kind of power these forces are in Serbia? I guess there's some state here, some government, some government or no government? Further: "In Serbia there should be a force of law, not a right to force, and therefore young people should raise their voice for the rule of law," imagine, says the Faculty of Law Dean. So the law school dean sees that there is no rule of law in this country. Is that an argument for Mr. Djelic, I don't know. As EU countries try to pass 3% of GDP in their budget for research and development of science, Serbia is with great pain, we have not seen the 2011 budget, but has so far given 0.3%. It is so small that the question must be asked – is it really important for this government to answer whether Serbia needs research? Everyone knows that basic and applied research is expensive, training young staff is even more expensive, and the government shows no desire to change that. In contrast, the government is breaking up the institutions that exist in this country, which should be dealt with by science. Here, Vinci's been torn apart, turned into something that almost doesn't exist today, the cord was broken in Vinci. Now let's move on to the institutes. What did the institutes receive during the rule of Minister Djelic and what can they expect? The institutes don't usually get dinars for research costs, so-called. material costs. They only get paid basic research, they get paid late, and that's the end of it. Minister Djelic says -- when we borrow these new 35m euros, some of it will be able to reach the institutes as well. Mr. Djelic did not tell us, and he should tell us whether he is the creator of this new achievement in the appointment of the director of the institute and that they must have a political moral resemblance. It is, however, the old stance of his coalition partner, but Mr. Djelic is so keenly defending him and is trying so hard to put away all those who are not on a clean party line to be in the offices of the director of the institute, and here they come, we assume all of us, those who are professional and who know they are doing the job, and obviously not. Here I have some little material that I wanted to open with Mr. Djelic about the appointment of these one-party directors, but since Mr. Djelic is not here, I will not be opening this question today, there will be time to open. He says these 35m euros will be used to open a science promotion centre. I'm sorry, no one in the science world can tell us today what a science promotion centre is. Serbia has no problem with young, professional and quality people opting for science. That's not the problem. She has a problem, once they've given up, that they can survive here, that they can have a lab, that they can have something to work with, that they can work with, that they can educate, education further. There's no problem with someone not doing science. Why should 20 million be spent now for a center like that that won't serve anything? It's nice to open new investments, it's nice to spend money you can't control in any way, but that science promotion centre doesn't need Serbia. Serbia really appreciates science, really appreciates young scientists. Give them the opportunity to work, not leave your country the moment they become names. That's what I want to tell you. I want to tell you that you need to take care of one more thing. Besides sports, only our science exists on the international stage as something relevant, and I'm not sure you'll use that 30 million the right way, because, let's say, I come from Valjev, and there is, near Valjev, at Petnica Research Centre, Petnica Research Station, which until a month ago was practically closed. Why? Because you didn't pay out of the budget the funds she needed to survive, and you were obliged to pay because you had it in your budget as something you had to do. What's important now is that Mr. Djelic came in, promised to help them get a few more beds where they could be young people who stay at Petnica. I'm completely skeptical, I know what you're ready for, what you're capable of, you won't do it all the way. It's a promise for a pre-election campaign, how you help science. The second thing I want to tell you, which I want to talk about, is the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on social security. Let me ask, can the country of Serbia with such parameters guarantee social security for anyone, anyone, even its citizens? In Serbia, you have over 750 thousand unemployed, you have a million people who have less than 20,000 a month, with a bunch of unpaid bills, with debts to their throats, you have 300,000 children who are poor and who have one meal a day. You have parameters that tell you that poverty is particularly affected by older people living alone in the rural area. According to studies, 426 thousand over 65 years of age live with a sum of six and a half thousand. The oldest 385 grand doesn't have any income. For these people, I guess the government needs to take some responsibility, but the government won't take that responsibility. Here is the social security law, which has been announced for six months, something that needs to bring new mechanisms, because old mechanisms of protecting old people are not enough, not effective enough, they simply can't help anyone to ease the deepest poverty, let alone help to get out of it. I want to talk about this poverty of children, of those 300,000 boys and girls, in Serbia, one half lives below the limit of existence, one half is at the very edge of existence. After a recent study of the population of children, the research authors, who are from the ministry, gave worrying conclusions – there are children who do not have any meals regularly, children do not have regular meals, rarely eat meat and fruit, dream sweets. The question I want to ask all the MPs, as a question for all of us, to question their parents – what they deny their children for lack of money, is the answer – everything. Today, 300,000 children have been brought to the brink of existence. No one deals with this problem, the government gives short-term measures that give no results. The effect is gone. Serbia is sinking deeper and deeper into poverty. The government's hungry army is not enough reason for the government to take social measures, and it says to itself that the government is socially responsible. Those quick and short solutions can't help anyone. Long-term and systematic work has to be done to have some effect. The government doesn't know that. This government, to remind you, has put the burden of the economic crisis on the back of citizens and on their shoulders. She didn't take it alone. Here are your data – in June 2009 there were 58 folk kitchens with 21,400 users. You have 29,920 users today. In January 2010, social assistance was requested by 15,638 people more than in January 2009. To talk about making contracts with Switzerland about how you're going to guarantee social security to anyone, with these parameters, hard, gentlemen. What I still want to talk about is a bill confirming the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes. I can't help feeling that one of those shows is playing in front of all of us right now. It is this report in front of the Council of Europe, the report by Mr Dick Marty, which states that Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci was head of a group dealing with human organs, drugs, weapons and today, when the KIM elections were over, when Mr Thaci is scheduled to make a government with Serbs, this appears here before us, so-called. To Serbs. It's true. What hurt me the most, because we've pointed out for many years what's going on and because we've been trying to animated this assembly, is the story of the EU keeping the report closed and not publishing it in an election campaign, not even at the time when it was possible, in some way, to put the whole group's actors on a pillar of shame before the election. The question is: Why did the EU encourage Serbs to participate in the elections that such a criminal of such rank participate in? Next is - why today, the EU and this government are encouraging Serbs to join the government with Hashim Thaci? That's answers for me, questions, and I expect an answer from someone else. For me, the question is that - who is it in 2002 and based on which parameters did he remove in Serbia from the red warrant for Hashim Thaci? That's the question someone needs to answer. Maybe it'd be interesting if we got an answer. What has also come to the attention of each of us, who thinks a little bit, and has proved to be terribly ugly and noble, but in the ugliest and least possible way, is a commentary, when all of this appeared in the world media, Mr Bruno Vekaric, who has said this - this is Serbia's great victory in the fight for truth and justice - we owe it to the families of the victims, I expect that the European Parliament will bring an adequate resolution. The European Parliament passed an adequate resolution, but Mr Marti also brought what he said at a press conference for the Council of Europe. He referred to the Serbian war crimes prosecutor's statement, saying he was shocked to talk about winning -- after a report like this, I find it inappropriate to talk about victory. Imagine what a slap this is to the Serbian public, not to the Prosecutor's Office and Mr Vekaric, who needs it. Furthermore, contrary to what many think, the information we received from Serbia has not been too helpful and does not represent a significant part of this report. The Serbian prosecutor's office, Mr. Vekaric and his boss, Vukcevic, did not find it appropriate to place real information where Serbia's interests should be defended. They didn't find it appropriate, but they found it appropriate to say -- well, that's Serbia's big victory. Unfortunately, with such people, Serbia should defend and fight for the truth about itself, but fortunately, there are those political forces in Serbia who consistently implement their policy to defend Serbia and its citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48760	The word is from MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48761	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that Deputy Prime Minister Djelic is not here, because we still think he should stand behind this loan framework agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. Among all these proposals on the agenda, it is probably the most important contract, a 35m-euro loan contract and which is part of a larger 130m-euro loan, there is the European Investment Bank, and the project we see in the light of this bill, around 400m euros. You will admit that these are huge money, especially at a time when the Republic of Serbia is in one kind of economic, political and any other crisis. Of course, the SRS is not against investment in science, and it is very accurate that the chairman of the Science Committee, Master Zivanovic, explained it, and we are not a priority against investment in science. We believe that education, science is just as important for the development of the economy of a society as well as for investment in economy, subsidies and all other economic and political parts of the policy that leads to productivity growth. This is also known in economic theory, that education is precisely leading to higher productivity. Of course, since it is the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe we are obliged to say that we are neither against membership in the Council of Europe, unlike membership in the EU, because we believe that the organisation which has about 50 members and in which the Russian Federation is, and you have seen, too, this report by Mr Marty, that it is certainly more objective and beneficial for the economic and political interests of the Republic of Serbia, that unlike the EU, it does not apply supranational regulation, there is no kind of "Aki Communitre", which must be implemented directly in the laws of the Republic of Serbia. So, the whole theory that we're for some isolation, etc., falls into the water only with this fact. So we are against EU membership, not membership in the Council of Europe. However, this agreement with the Bank of the Council of Europe should be seen in a broader context and in the context of whether it contributes in economic terms to the development of science in the Republic of Serbia. With budget rebalancing, it is likely to happen again in the budget itself, very little is set aside for the student standard, it is 17m euros, the student standard around 35m euros, and the Youth Fund only gets about fivem euros, which is catastrophic. When visiting the Committee on Technology and Science, Minister Djelic said that science is totaled with around 89m euros and that the plan is to single out 136m euros in 2011. This is an increase of 0.3% of GDP to 0.5%, which is, you will admit, minimal and insufficient. To that end, if we understand this loan contract well with the Bank of the Council of Europe, it is necessary to take that loan to increase the allocations for our science. However, this raises one logical question and a question that completely destroys the concept of this treaty and the concept that the EU has no alternative, if we are already in debt for 35m euros, why couldn't it have been done in a simpler way and the 100m-euro funds that we lose every year because of the application of the SAA only in terms of customs, also focus on science? If you compare these figures, it will be clear to you that we are those 100m euros, which we literally give to the EU, at the moment that protectionism is being re-applied in the world, I will only give you an example of US sanctions on China, US customs increases to China, which even the WTO has not assessed as unauthorized, we give 100m euros to the EU only because of the application of the SAA, instead of focusing those 100m euros on science and increasing the allocations for science to nearly 200m euros, so there is no justification in both economic and political terms or in any other sense. With all this in mind, it can be said that this phrase, that the EU has no alternative, actually means that borrowing has no alternative. This will also be seen when the members of this agreement with the Bank of the Council of Europe are specifically analysed, as Article 3 states that the loan is granted within a maximum period of up to 20 years. If you translate that into concrete figures, you will come to the conclusion that every year on the basis of that loan, if it is realised, we will get about 1.7m euros for science, and each year we will give 100m euros to the EU because of the phrase 'EU has no alternative'. When you compare these 35m euros in 20 years or two billion euros in 20 years to go to the EU, you come to a 1:571 ratio. Article 4. which is probably the most important member of this contract, predicts that there are so-called so-called ". additional costs. Of course, these additional costs will not be paid by the other party, the Bank of the Council of Europe, but by the Republic of Serbia, because in the event that the first tranche is not realised, then the Bank of the Council of Europe has the right to reroute those funds from Serbia to another destination and the cost of relocation of those funds will be borne by the Republic of Serbia or its citizens. If everything is not as planned, the contract provides for even a suspension of the contract. You'll admit, it's something that's more like blackmail, unreal contract and an unrealistic legal party, not one contract that should lead to the improvement of our science and our society. Also, Article 4 states that the Bank of the Council of Europe is financing 27% of the project and 73% of the project is financed by the EIB. So this is about so-called. European loans, about the loans that the EU is behind, essentially, and therefore we are not surprised that Article 4 provides, which is very untasteful, because if it is a single loan which is primarily intended to help young researchers set up billboards, media promotion of the lender, which is one of the EU's hidden propaganda in the Republic of Serbia. It provides that, in the event of implementation of the project, the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Social Charter must apply. I am responsibly saying that this is pointless, because the European Charter of Human Rights may be applied when it comes to the EU which is the holder of this project, but the European Charter of Social Rights, it is by the Treaty of Mastricht, you certainly know that, Minister, where Article 6 provides that the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe is not being applied. What does that mean exactly? This means that protection at work, social security, social agreement between workers and employers will not apply, and that is all the EU is fighting against in practice. This cannot be covered up by the phrase that it will allegedly be applied in a contract where the EIB is in charge of the main word. It is particularly scandalous that Article 4, and this should not be hidden from the public, predicts that the selection of works of goods and services to be financed from this project will be carried out in accordance with the EIB procurement guide. We know exactly what it means in practice. This means that goods, services, procurement and construction works, if these apartments are built to rent to young researchers, will be done by favoured EU firms. I can give you a few examples in the construction industry from the Beška bridge to this bridge through Ada, to the bypass around Belgrade, Corridor 10, where just because of the pressure or ultimatum of the EIB, companies from the EU are forced, namely the Austrian firm Por and Alpina, at the moment the Serbian construction industry is in a huge crisis, when the Serbian Chamber of Commerce secretary, Mr Rodic, says that within two to three years, the unfair competition from the EU will destroy Serbian construction firms. These are facts, such as the fact that our companies are forced to build on the Russian Federation market, although they have no support or any developmental bank behind them. These are facts, but the phrase remains that the EU has no alternative and that it should not be considered in line with the country's economic interests. As regards the Treaty itself with the European Council of Europe, of course, in Article 4, which appears to be the most important in this Treaty, it is predicted that monitoring must be applied in the event of implementation of the project or that a suspension of the project will occur. What kind of monitoring is that? Who's gonna do that monitoring? The most important question is, who's going to pay for that monitoring? Of course, the Republic of Serbia, its citizens, and the people who will monitor are external consultants from the Council of Europe. So we'll pay and come so-called. consultants from the Council of Europe and they will, in their opinion, review the project. Do you know what that means? To be specific, this means that according to the most likely scenario, there will be a suspension of the project, a payment of tight interest and what happened with the bridge via Ade, which is magically now costing about 400m euros, and at the beginning was about 90m euros. These are the conditions and it is the practice of the EU when it approves loans, and that is something that cannot be hidden from Serbian citizens. Article 6 states that if circumstances change, or if Serbia actually falls into a kind of debt crisis, inability to repay this loan will be subject to a fine interest. A tight interest, under very unfavourable conditions and a tight interest that will rely on a variable interest rate. Of course, you can say that there will be no debt crisis, but I will only give you two examples that show that public debt is not the primary cause of the debt crisis, but rather a private debt, which, when added to public debt in the Republic of Serbia, has crossed 70% of gross domestic product. That's two examples. The first case is Iceland, the second case is Ireland. Both countries were not in debt in the public sector over the criteria, of 60%, of the EU Stability Pact, but, on the other hand, the private sector, precisely because the banks were not controlled by the state and the Central Bank, led to the entire financial system of the two countries coming into one kind of bankruptcy. Therefore, it is no surprise that a member of this harmful contract with the Council of Europe predicts that all taxes and taxes, of any kind, as well as all costs incurred from the conclusion, execution, liquidation of contracts and court fees to be paid by the Republic of Serbia, and not by the other side, will obviously be one type of dispute. Annex 1 to the Treaty shows tables that do not tell us anything, moreover, they are pointless because it is said that the total project, in relation to this contract, will cost 130m euros. What does that mean? One hundred thirty million euros at least. That could reach 400m euros, the price of this overpriced bridge over Ada. Maybe not. It probably will, but it is particularly controversial that the contract stipulates that, although it does not know how much it will cost, it must be realised by 30 June 2014. You don't know how much it costs. There's no telling who's doing the work. They don't even know the interest, which we'll explain afterwards, but it's known that by 30 June 2014, all the tranches will have to be realised or tight interest will be applied. It's no surprise, if you consider that in that supplement of the contract, i.e. In these tables, he talks about renting apartments to young researchers, which we're not against, but we think they should be given into the property of these apartments, not rented. The next definition is scandalous, pointless, and it is simply a scandal that can be found in such an act applied in the National Assembly and considered, which is that apartments will be rented at affordable prices. What does that mean? What are affordable prices? Why isn't that in the contract? Who will determine what affordable prices are? It's a scandal. This cannot hide any phrases about the EU that are listed below these tables, and it is particularly funny that justice is supposed to be agreed by the phrase that the EU is the answer to the globalisation process. It was written by someone who, either does not want reality, or is completely scarred in that path without an alternative, as the EU is the main engine with the IMF and other organisations and the main driver of globalisation. This is completely inappropriate and incorrect, and it is in line with other definitions in the annex where it is said that there will be costs for equipment, and there is no indication of how large they are, nor of where the equipment will be bought, and I am responsible for saying that these equipment will be bought in the EU. There's nothing in the table, specifically, about the source of funding. It's said you don't even know what interest will be. Imagine a loan contract that doesn't know the interest rate. Here are four options for interest rate altitude. The first where the interest rate will be variable if it is 15 years or you have a second option, if it is 20 years, that it will be variable again, but that the margin difference is 0.61% to 1.15%. You have a third and fourth variant of interest where it's said to be fixed interest from 3.69 to 4.41, which is a huge interest. In the end, I'm going to say, and I'm going to sum it up, that there are much better ways to help science and young researchers by the state. That's what I already listed at the beginning. Removing the SAA and its economic work and directing those 100m euros towards science, and then we will have a much higher percentage of GDP for science and young researchers. Another option, and it also needs political courage like this, needed to reject the phrase that the EU has no alternative, is to do what was done at a research centre called Skolkovo, where the oligarchs have just shown a kind of social responsibility and invested part of their income in developing science in the Russian Federation. I'm going to give an example, and that's where I'm going to finish my exposure. The other day we read in the paper that Delta Maxi has income from, if I'm not mistaken, two billion euros. Let them give five or ten percent to young researchers, and this will be more sum than all these contracts that are harmful, which are one type of blackmail and which are designed to finance companies from Austria and the EU as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48762	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the DSS parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group, the ZES parliamentary group. We move to the part of the session when MPs participate in the discussion, and according to the order and according to the application for a word in the joint single review of the Law on the ratification of international agreements referred to in item 5-11 of the agenda. First reported is MP Alexander Pejcic. After that, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48763	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, representatives of the government, I must express my regret, as well as my colleague, Milica Vojic Markovic, for demeaning the government and us MPs and this high house. In fact, the session was due to begin at 10:00 p.m., and it began with a three-hour delay. So it's the government's relationship to us MPs and to this high house. I must express regret and disdain because the ruling majority, preparing this session of the Assembly, on the agenda, has re-classified some laws that are diametrically opposite and which have no touch points, for example, in this 3rd point. I will speak, on the 3rd agenda, of the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. It is a 35m-euro loan to help young talents and scientific institutes. In fact, the DSS doesn't mind investing in young talents and scientific institutes, because we also say that these young people should be the basis for Serbia's scientific and technological development and lead Serbia into a better future in future times. But what's important is that the state itself needs to create assumptions for funding these institutes and young talents, not to permanently borrow – today 35 million, tomorrow who knows how much. It is a good opportunity that at the next session, when we adopt the budget, we see that Mr Djelic has made more funds for his portfolio, our ministry and thus we will help scientific institutes and young talents. Many countries in Europe spend much more money than Serbia, although they are less, not borrowed, thus helping their science and their young talents. Today, younger people are moving out of Serbia, which is what we have to say. In fact, this time reminds me of that time in the 1990s, when between 1990 and 2000, in those ten years, about 400,000 people moved out of Serbia and no one has come back until now. They were all finished academic citizens, doctors, scientists, engineers, highly qualified workers, masters, etc. None of them came back. The last two years have also been a major brain drain. Serbia is in second place for a brain drain in the world. So, from 2000 to 2008, there are more outflows of people than it was by 2008, which means that the exodus of young and talented people is starting again. Indicators, i.e. National Employment Service statistics show that today there are 730,000 unemployed in Serbia, of which 50% of the people between 25 and 29 are both able to work. The second thing, last year, 250,000 people lost their jobs, and the government promised to hire about 200,000 people and so many new jobs. That's what this so-called. The Socially Responsible Government does. In order to help young people and talents, we need to make sure that local self-government has to take part in all of this. We in Leskovec, as I come from Leskovec, in time, four years ago, have opened a fund for the scholarship of young talent. The fund worked until this year, when local authorities, headed by Mayor Slobodan Kostic, abolished the fund and scholarship of young talent and thus sent a message to all young people in Leskovac, to all citizens in Leskovac – the last to leave Leskovec, let the light go out. Believe me, in Leskovec, very bright and smart children are born, our decorations, but without your help, we can't keep them from staying in Leskovac, because, as I said, local self-government doesn't take care of them. I think there is a rescue for Serbia after all. The general example was Minister Bozidar Djelic, deputy prime minister of the government, who in two years, staying in the government of Zoran Djindjic, sitting on his aunt's cannabis, earned ninem euros. He is an idol to young people in Serbia. We expected him to come today and ask him what magic formula it is and how can nine million euros be made in two years? I hope you will answer us as well and help the citizens of Serbia. For this state of science, it is certain that at this moment the government is responsible, because it does not project a large number of material resources into the budget. Also, we expect this government to call a competition, in order for young people to sign up with new and better-quality projects. In case this remains a dead letter on paper, I'm afraid it will also apply to Serbia – whoever goes last from Serbia, turn off the light.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48764	Six minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48765	On behalf of the SRS, I will focus this principle debate on the law on the confirmation of the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, on two agreements, i.e. agreements concerning co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the one on extradition, which is concluded with Croatia. Of course I'm expressing a negative attitude and disapproval. Mrs. Komic, on this day, 20 years ago, Republika Srpska Krajina was formed, which disappeared after two criminal interventions in 1995. Let me remind you of this. I am surprised that this symbolism in the dates, today to find such agreements on the agenda between pro-Europeans, I would say – the pro-Governmental, the authorities, since we also have the Sanaderisation in Serbia, these SNS, the party of the enemy of Serbia, who wants to be Serbian Sanaders. Let's take it in a row. I simply cannot understand that there is no crime of aggression in the European Convention, although it solves the non-determination of these crimes, or crimes. In that sense, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is far wider, Mrs Comic, and our internal regulations exceed this Convention, which Europe concluded in 1974. Mrs. Komic, the United States is never in its history, and be sure in the future, it will not allow an American citizen to be tried abroad, no matter what crime. When it comes to war crimes or what we call war crimes, they also have bilateral agreements with states that exclude the possibility of them responding to the International War Crimes Tribunal, that's the ICC in The Hague. You remember that in 2003, Mrs. Comic, about this time, at the time, neither guilty nor debtor of the government, Zoran Zivkovic, offered such a bilateral agreement because, simply, American soldiers could not commit war crimes. That's familiar. Under this convention, which is complete, as you like to say, implemented in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which some want to change, the SP, they hate that Kosovo and Metohija stand in preamble, those from the "white ship" would want Serbia to have 125 MPs, only five more than independent Kosovo. Although, they say, there are a million and six voters there, and here eight million, Mr. Bradic, so look at that ratio, and yours, Mr. Bradic, is in favour of regionalization. But it's about that path. Then I shall quote to you what Mr. Dacic said ten years ago about such initiatives. You see, with this convention that you are now ratifying, and I don't know why, since it's completely unnecessary, there's something called Article 5, Article 6 and Article 7, where you have to define the territory where this is going to apply. How are you going to define territory? In what territory should this convention be applied when you ratify it? In the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia? Do you know what the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia is? But maybe you've got an idea to make a good playbook for some future show. As for these agreements concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the pro-European government, represented in the image of the culture minister, what does culture have to do with the judiciary - I don't know, it was probably the only one available at this time, you who have Serbian citizenship will be 'coldly delivered to the illegal court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must remind you that, when the Dayton Agreement was signed, the judiciary belonged to entities, and then pro-European and pro-NATO politicians, Serbs in Republika Srpska, and willingly agreed to be courted by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that court, it is up to the Serbs to be arrested every three or four days, to go to Zenica, because it is necessary to preserve the image that Serbs are criminals in genetics, in the sense, in everything. You who vote for ratification of such an agreement, amendments and additions, have voted that your neighbours, Serbs from here, who may have been reservers or as found soldiers of JNA, in April 1992, were found in Sarajevo, be delivered to the court of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be tried as war criminals. You're doing it today, when 20 years ago from the emergency was formed Republika Srpska Krajina to protect themselves, Mrs. Komic, and your relatives and friends and everyone. As far as Croatia is concerned, here you go one step further, for every crime, for which a year sentence can be prescribed, you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can be delivered to the County Court. So, if, Mrs. Comić, it happened that a cousin of yours from Krajina applied to return his property, because private property is sacred, it's a European standard, so if he insists that he asks for another time to return it, then one of the writers will come from Zagreb that you are a suspect, and then here we have a whole series of provisions and preventative sending, and then Cole, called Slobodan Homen or Nenad Constantović Neca, or this Karamel, or this Maca, which is headed by the Justice Ministry, will show his pro-European orientation and you will go there to be tried, or go to a settlement – give up your property, we will not judge you, whether there is a criminal act or not. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is DOS, that is the democratic pro-European government that doesn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at all, they are disturbing it. Of course, this does not apply to present MPs in the National Assembly who support me in what I say. This refers to those gray eminences that are managed by the parties of power, those of gray eminences that, with great squabbles last night, managed to make something called the 2011 Budget Proposal, and we are prisoners of such a policy. That's what we need to talk about. When I took the word on this topic, which far exceeds this novelty of Mr Djelic, how to fit into 35m euros, since you know that wherever he went to smart, he was expelled, started from Russia and further, he was only frozen in Serbia, probably because of his aunt and that bed. Now I need to draw your attention to some things, when it comes to these international, allegedly, war crimes courts. I quote what the judges of The Hague tribunal say - it was tried in Nuremberg from 20 November 1945 to 1 October 1946. Calculate how many months they've completed the trial with 37 defendants. Then – in Tokyo from 3 May 1946 to 12 November 1948; Cambodia, remember, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the case of Dutch, the trial lasted from 17 February 2009 to 26 July 2010. Vojislav Seselj has not been suggested for eight years that the first stage of the pre-trial procedure has been completed. Where are these human rights fighters in Serbia? Shut up. It suits them. Why? While Seselj is in The Hague, they can obtain funds, same as Djelic, to be installed in some amount. Let's see how the court proceedings take place, since you're talking about international standards. Then, a megaprocession in Italy, which was tried against 465 indictees, was sentenced to 368. The trial began in Palermo on 11 February 1986 and ended on 17 November 1987. In Canada, for the serious crimes of theft, the trial lasts 218 days, for serious crimes – 224, for those with sexual crimes – 293. Calculate, eight years times 365 days, as long as Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague, the question is whether there is a reasonable doubt that he has done anything. Mrs. Comic, if you had informed today that whoever came has received 10m euros, you would have these here, the White Ship, Tomislav Nikolic and these. They didn't come today. Why didn't they come? There's no profit. Take everything life gives you. Now, you see how you can secure most of it. What do those from Brussels say? All of you who are welcome for the EU, we are not interested in who you are and what you are, whether you are criminals, whether you are murderers, it is important that you support the EU, because the EU project is a project to destroy the Republic of Serbia. For ten years, we have been fighting to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the project "The EU has no alternative", it is a disaster. I hope in two days, you DS will understand what a disaster the Resistance is. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48766	The word is Donka Banovic's folk letter, followed by Marina Toman's folk emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48767	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, today I will only talk about one contract, which is the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition. My fellow MPs, as long as time allowed, talked about the other contracts we're talking about today. The deal between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition was signed in Belgrade on 29 June. It was signed by Serbian Justice Minister Snezana Malovic and Croatian Justice Minister Ivan Simonovic. As the minister of justice told the media at the time, this contract for Serbia and Croatia is very important and both countries are determined not to allow the mafia to have a safe house in either one of these countries. That's quite a statement in place. The minister further said, when she spoke about the importance of this agreement, that it should achieve two basic objectives set in the formation of the Serbian government, which are European integration and intensifying the fight against organised crime and corruption. I don't understand how this agreement, as far as the first part of this statement is concerned, I don't quite understand how it affects the acceleration of the European integration process. But let's say, this second part, that he can contribute to the fight against organised crime and corruption, that I understand, and that's also a good statement. When this agreement was signed, which in my opinion did not get enough space in the media and in the public, it was signed at a time when Serbia asked Croatia to hand over Sretko Kalinic, who committed crimes both in Serbia and Croatia, although his trial is still under way. I think even he was delivered. So this agreement in light of these events and the extradition of one particular person, and another much more dangerous aspects and more harmful to Serbia, according to Serbian citizens, by citizens who have dual citizenship, citizenship and Croatia and Serbia, was not sufficiently talked about. My colleague Krasic pointed out the terrible symbolism of the match of December 17th 20 years ago, when Republika Srpska Krajina was created, as he said, from a great emergency, and today, after 20 years, that we in the Serbian parliament want to confirm, and that will be in a few days, this contract with the Republic of Croatia on extradition. I can't imagine how people who felt from 1992 to the famous "Storm" found refuge in Serbia, thanks to the great heart of the Serbian people and understanding of their problems. As they feel, those who can't solve until today, I mean apartments and houses, what they've been kidnapped, where you have various county courts that invent blame for people who used to live in those cities, and today they had to escape, or live in Serbia. This law can be very misused, but it is a sword above those people's heads. During his recent stay in Croatia, Serbian President Boris Tadic did one big favor to Croatian President Ivo Josipovic and Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, such a service that those who were before them, headed by the Croatian state, could not even dream of it. Recently, also, President Tadic, in an interview with Russian television, "Russia Today", and we even watch it, because it's a cable program, and now it's spinning on YouTube, he said to himself that he was a pro-Serbian president. Is that possible? The president of Serbia, and pro-Serbian. So, it's amazing, but we welcome that people who have positive feelings for that country, or Serbia, are at the head of the country. We remain to hope, because they did not say that the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, is a pro-Serbian prime minister, remains to hope that Minister Bradic is also a pro-Serbian minister. I hope they have positive feelings for the country they're headed for. However, what can be said of Mr Tadic is that he, according to those services, concessions and all the good things he has done for the Republic of Croatia, could be said to be not only pro-Serbian but also pro-Croatian president. I return to that visit on November 25th, it was an official visit, he was an official representative of the Republic of Serbia. What is agreed, as president of Serbia, is then an official agreement. What he agreed to and what he agreed to with the Croats, our president, I'll tell you now. He generously said in Zagreb that he forgives the Croatian state's three billion-euro debt, though, of other people's money and whose money? Those people, there are over 35,000 per list of apartments that the Serbs left in Croatian cities, when they had to leave the urban environments, these apartments, their estimated value, is three billion at the moment. Now I return to what a great gift it is for the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is at the door of the EU, but the EU expects Croatia to solve some more existing problems, including creating conditions for the return of exiled Serbs and to compensate for the damage done by the Croatian state, not individuals, but states. That spectrum is dominated by this very problem of household rights. If you remember in our former common state, there was the Institute of Housing Law and it was completely equal to private property by law. How did the Serbs lose those apartments in Croatia? After the first multi-party elections, when Franjo Tudjman and HDZ defeated Croatia, a frightening anti-Serbian atmosphere was created, leading to murders in various cities in Croatia, leading to about 250,000 Serbs leaving the cities. It is, Zagreb, Zadar, Split, Sibenik etc. In these cities, they left all their property, even apartments. The local authorities then encouraged the abduction of these apartments through the planned action and with the full support of the Croatian state, by the fact that the Croats were entering abandoned Serb dwellings, they were allowed to buy these apartments, or buy them, and then the Croatian state was behind the ethnic cleansing project. The new tenants also booked these apartments. When the whole process ended, Croatia passed the law to abolish housing law as a form of property, as a state project. To return to this visit by President Tadic, he agreed to forgive the Croatian state for this debt was the last blow to the big problem and the blow to refugees living in Serbia. Namely, he reaches an agreement, with Josipovic and Jadranka Kosor, to organise an international donor conference. That's what we heard, we didn't hear much details later, we didn't know when it was going to be, we didn't know how much money they were planning, we didn't know anything. Indeed, whether anyone can believe it or whether it can be solved in such a way that you can organize it with the blessing of Serbia, or the Serbian president, you organise a donor conference and there will be countries or institutions that have nothing to do with the kidnapping that happened in Croatia in the 1990s, they will now invest and give money to solve this problem. So, the Croatian state has made a state robbery. Therefore, the Croatian state should resolve this issue, but it seems our president does not think so, and he simply agreed to a cheap prank. Just a day after President Tadic left Croatia, the Croatian government immediately went public with the view of removing all obstacles on Croatia's path to the EU. They probably told President Tadic in secret thanks, not publicly. This seems to solve the disputes and problems that exist between these two countries. But what someone said was that Boris saw Zagreb, he saw the North. We saw it in the yellow press, even though Ivo Josipovic may have given him a CD.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48768	The People's Messenger Marina Toman has the word, and after her, the Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48769	At the very beginning, I would like to point out, as well as my colleagues, that it is indeed scandalous and inadmissible behaviour of the Government, which two days could not agree on who in this House will explain its proposals and finally, as we can see, Mr Bradic, that honor has been given to you, although your portfolio really has very little, almost no touch points with today's agenda. Based on the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, the government will charge Serbia 35m euros. As explained in the proposal for this contract, part of the funding will be spent on the procurement of equipment to carry out scientific research work, for the purpose of equipping institutes and laboratories, and part of the building of apartments to solve the housing problems of young scientific workers. It's just part of the money. As we can see from the proposal, the total cost estimated will be at least 130m euros without VAT. At first glance, we might be able to conclude that the government really understood how much it took, for the development of state and society, to invest in science. However, several things are disputed so that we can draw that conclusion. First of all, we could say that it's a very controversial value of the project. So we don't know how much he's going to be. The proposal says it will amount to at least 130m euros. How long will that be? Whether it's 200 or 300m euros, we don't know. It is truly an amazing thing for the government to enter into such a serious project, such as solving the housing problem of young scientific workers, without carrying out a complete analysis and cost assessment. To be clear, the SRS does not diminish the importance of investment in science and its value for the development of the state, but we must draw attention to the loan we are talking about today, or the conditions under which it is taken, for our country is unfavourable. First, it is unacceptable to see from the contract, as my colleague Mirovic said, the level of the interest rate, even if it is fixed or variable. As we can see, the loan is withdrawn in the tranches. For each tranche, borrower, i.e. our state and bank together determine the amount, interest rate, withdrawal date, return date etc. You're asking parliament to declare the loan without knowing what the interest rate is. It's a similar situation with a tight interest rate. The next interesting thing is the fact that the state is required under the contract to advertise to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. In fact, the state will point out to end-users that the project is partly financed by this bank through appropriate funds, communications, the Internet, press releases, billboards and a number of other things. To conclude, the contract provides for the state to advertise its cost on the bank from which it takes credit, under very unfavourable conditions. It's really amazing. When it comes to these extra costs and incredible absurdities, it is necessary to set aside the following fact. The agreement obliges our country to provide support to so-called. the monitoring missions of bank employees or external consultants to be hired by the bank, by enabling all necessary visits to the sites where the projects are carried out. The Bank can also audit the project, by hiring external consultants, and all of that, of course, on the cost of the Serbian state. So we're in charge of someone, under unfavourable conditions, at the interest rate that is at the moment of enigma, then we're honest with someone, we're paying their consultants, etc., and of course with taxpayers' money. The basic question is, in fact, how much of these funds will be used for the needs of science, and how many funds will be returned to the bank through various things, as well as an observation mission. These are just some remarks, indeed there are very many, investing in science yes, but that is why we believe that the conditions under which this loan is taken are very unfavourable. It seems to us that the state still does not have an adequate strategy for the development of science. As far as the state is prepared and as it observes science, it can be seen, first of all, and looks at how much it stands out for science from the budget. We don't think it's enough. However, the question is raised, and how are these funds, which are being allocated, being spent? A new competition for a new project cycle has recently been completed. One of the main regrets is that the state went to quantity, not to quality, chasing after some EU standards, for some averages, you, or the government, have defined yourself to create this average in science. Also, the state announced, i.e. Minister Djelic, we are sorry that he is not here today, that he will invest more in projects linking economy and science. According to our knowledge, it was nothing. The question could also be asked why it is necessary to build an object for a science promotion centre. Why are scientific suggestions not accepted? Why is it not located in some of the already existing buildings, and the funds designed to build it into some scientific research projects, and above all the projects necessary for our country's development, which are projects that link economy and science. To conclude, there is no disputed separation for science, and the SRS has never objected to segregation for this area, but above all, the conditions under which this loan is taken are disputed. We find it very unfavourable for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48770	Six minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is Natasa Jovanovic's folk messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48771	What is found in the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Early Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity is indeed nowhere near what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in our positive criminal legislation. But you want to ratify this convention, and that's your business. As far as this Convention is concerned, it relies to a large extent on another convention that was adopted in 1968 and called the Convention on the Non-application of Statuteary Limits to War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity. It was then that a certain group of countries concluded that there were serious failures in the legislation of certain countries, in terms of the ageing of war crimes and crimes against humanity, so they decided to sign a convention in which they would try to prevent it. It cannot be disputed that then many of the signatories of this Convention really had, in a way, sincere intentions regarding crimes against humanity and various crimes, and that they signed in their best interest then and far in 1968, this Convention. But since then, to this day, it's been a really long time and a lot has changed. In one period of the 20th century, in the other half, there is a serious imbalance in the distribution of world power. One country strives in many ways, and it succeeds in being a "beach of God" compared to the entire world policy and economy, but that's not enough for it either. The United States, with the help of the Secretary-General, is trying to take one first attempt at official law enforcement so-called. humanitarian intervention, which was first tried in 1999, when, without any decision by the UN 78 days, there was a senseless bombing of the then Yugoslavia, in which, to remind you, there were inconceivable consequences, thousands and thousands of innocent civilians suffered, and the material damage was enormous. Now the question arises – in light of such a geopolitical situation and the domination of one great world power, how are certain practical issues raised regarding today's agenda, therefore, regarding the ratification of this Convention, as well as these agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia? The first question arises – what will Serbia, as a country that ratifys this Convention, which will certainly ratify this Convention and these Treaties, bring its ratifications in particular? Furthermore, could the ratification of this Convention and these Treaties bring her at least an approximate reciprocity regarding the prosecution of the perpetrators of these crimes, so war crimes and crimes against humanity, as regards the detection of the perpetrators, as regards the trial of the same at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, especially in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the present, and of Croatia? Could its ratification expect greater justice in the qualifications of crimes against humanity and the crimes of war crimes, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, where are the victims of Serbs? Unfortunately, I think the answer to all these questions is absolutely negative. Furthermore, can Serbia, as a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, have at least a little impact on the fairer qualification of acts that have all the elements of crimes against humanity and war crimes after ratification of this Convention? These are crimes, in fact, which the laws of countries in the environment, especially Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, absolutely do not qualify. There are numerous examples, ladies and gentlemen, where crimes against Serbian civilians, the Serb civilian population was not wanted and will not be dealt with seriously, although there are numerous cases and there are absolutely complete documentation that has been submitted, both to The Hague and to domestic courts. Under pressure from political structures in Sarajevo, a story about Serb camps formed at the beginning of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not allowed to start, so in 1992, especially in the Brcko area. Here, I'll make one example. Listen to what's not a war crime against humanity out there. It's a civilian victim. One of the victims of such a camp testified, and I will quote him, saying, "The shock and the cobra have pierced my chest from the front, in the height of my right breast, in the direction of my armpits. I had a knife cut across my left and right eardrums. A special device, shaped like a hook, tried to pull out my right eye, which left this scar. They put cigarettes out on my spine, cursing my mother's toothbrushes all the time. "This, as well as numerous other examples, is not crimes against the civilian population, is not crimes against humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, this is the torture of a man in such a highly praised 20th century, it really represents something that exceeds every beast's temper. To remind you, Mr. Minister, the Indians claim that the cobra, the most poisonous snake living in their space, has never, ever happened to bite a child in a cradle, and so unfeelingly attack an adult man, as if he were ashamed to let a small and unprotected creature die from its bite. There are hundreds of testimony from wars in these areas of the former Yugoslavia that these children are cut down in cradles, that their eyes are drawn alive, that they are brought alive into the fire, into the fire, and many such crimes are not subject to qualifications that crimes are against the civilian population. All of this, the EU and then the United States watched, often even encouraged. Then why such peoples? Why, then, should these people hope for the EU, such and such an EU, of such a United States? Or should we turn this to another context, so why should the EU and such a U.S. hope for God? Furthermore, can these conventions, whose ratifications are required, and these contracts, which you will ratify, really change something in this case? Will the Convention, whose ratification is required, make Serbia, as the state guaranteeing the Dayton Agreement, do something about inappropriate charges against Serbs? Is it normal, Mr. Minister, that all residents in one village in Republika Srpska, the village of Pushovac, should be charged with war crimes? Is it normal for the entire village to be charged with war crimes? No one's responding to that. That's not what Prime Minister Dodik was reacting to, even though they returned to him. Serbia, which is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, has not responded to that either. They addressed Dodik with words – what would you, Mr Dodik, be prime minister today if we hadn't defended the Republic of Serbia? Nothing, he remained silent, the Republic of Serbia is gone, as a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement. So the question is, what are these ratifications actually going to bring? What will these ratifications bring to the state of Serbia? The maximum answer this ratification can bring is, in fact, the continued Satanisation of Serbs through the prosecution and processing of Serbs, all those who had at least the status of a fighter, all because of some subliminal creeping towards the EU. Let me remind you, this is the kind of dance I've shown you in this way, it really doesn't lead to anything. That crawl can only remind us of the story when the bird on the top of the tree saw the worm, so he asks him how you flew there, and he says to her: I did not fly, but I crawled. So, crawling can come high, it gets high, but that crawl doesn't mean anything to the state of Serbia. This crawl may lead to the EU, but I fear that after such a crawl, in the same EU, you are not swallowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48772	Nine minutes and 30 seconds were used. The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48773	Mr. Minister, Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue to talk about this one contract, in fact, the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty signed by Mrs. Malovic on behalf of the Republic of Serbia with the Minister of Croatia, so we can call it the creation, once the former Republic that occupied the Republic of Serbia's Krajina. Now at 15.00 hours in the Busi municipality of Zemun begins marking, by the government of Republika Srpska and Krajisnik, who have been exiled from their centuries-old hearths, the 20-year anniversary of the creation of SAO Krajina. I must remind you, Mrs. Comic, and you, Mr. Minister, that Republika Srpska Krajina, the most Westernly occupied Serbian country, had a subsequent election to elect her legitimate president, her government and her parliament. The Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile, is our fellow Serbian radical, Mr. Milorad Buha, MP of the SRS. This is the coincidence and irony of the Serb people who suffered and who had to be under another genocide in the 20th century, who committed the Ustasha Croatian rule, to leave their centuries-old hearths, that just today, when they marked 20 years, when, because of the fact that the Croats, they had to throw the Serb people out of the Constitution as a people who existed there for centuries... To make the irony even bigger, on this list, you will see, Mr Bradic, after you were caught in a hurry to come, because before this treaty, the confirmation of the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, we here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, instead of that shameful Resolution on Srebrenica, had a resolution condemning the Ustasha Croatian power, which committed a crime against Serbs, Roma and Jews in 1941. She was rejected by most of us here. How does this fit into this non-war crimes convention that you're about to bring? Who, then, will condemn those villains who killed such a Serb nemesis and committed aggression against Serbian territory, expelled and destroyed Serbs from a place where 99% of the Serb population were? What the Krajisnica will have to remind today at the meeting in Busi, are reports from international organisations, formerly UN Secretary-General Butros Galli, who, when the first Resolution on the recognition of Republika Srpska Krajina, was adopted as the legitimate formation of Serbs in the area, on the western line of the Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica, with the Serbian Moravice's position even behind the line, submitted the report then on 15 May 1993, and referred to ethnic cleansing and looting of Serbian property. He said the Croatian authorities had exiled to Yugoslavia, Republika Srpska Krajina, until then, watch out, 251,000 Serbs from Croatia. Then what happened on August 4th in Ustasha's action "Blash" and "Storm", you know that another half a million of our countrymen had to leave their hearths. In this agreement signed there is, allegedly, a mere illusion, the reason it is due to the struggle between Serbia and this other side of the so-called country. Croatia, in the fight against organised crime. If you ask Serbian Radicals, we are the first to have anyone involved in any kind of crime prosecuted in front of domestic courts and that the epilogue has, but the epilogue has, not like one representative, who is now promoted, where the court case has said she has received the verdict she needs to make, and this is the group and this period in Serbia after so-called. democratic changes have become a crucible of crime both in Belgrade, both in Podgorica and in Zagreb. Who warned about this aspect? Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj. He wrote a book. The other day, I was, and I'm sorry I don't have a copy here for you, I gave this book to Mrs. Diana Dragutinović, "Stanko Subotić – Cane Frog, King of the tobacco mafia". Who are these persons listed in the documents, transferring the writings of Zagreb's National, Professor Vojislav Seselj? It's just those people who are supposed to sign this contract between the two states. Those faces are tough criminals, but they served. One of them, who has escaped and has been hiding in Zagreb for seven years, and then, after shooting at this other, his partner from the criminal group, Sretko Kalinic, Milos Simovic, fled to Serbia and surrendered, if it can be said, to the local authorities, has been involved through Aleksandr Vukic and his lawyers, Milos Simovic, in the campaign, worst possible, against our president, who is eight years in The Hague prison and against his wife and entire family, in June of this year. It's not a bit of a coincidence, you know. To start with such a hickey and campaign on man, that he had ties with anyone from the Zemun Clan, at the time he struggled to continue his process, and was already beaten up by The Hague tribunal, and the media involved in such a heifer and harangu, and then, allegedly, the one who was threatened, and that is this SRS outlaw Tomislav Nikolic, whom the tycoons are paying, and thus also organised crime. You see how all this is connected, Mr. Braddick, says his life is in danger and he's looking for police security. All this lasted four months, and then the deputy special prosecutor, however, came forward on 9 November this year, and said, "In connection with the writing of the media on the planning of the murder of SNS President Tomislav Nikolic, I am informing you: Vojislav Seselj does not have the property charged with the above mentioned, so, according to that, there is no reasonable doubt in that direction. "It was signed by Deputy Prosecutor for Organized Crime Jovica Jovanovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I repeat, we have already talked about this, we have learned that Aleksandar Vukic is via lawyer Simovic, a criminal who has been hiding in Zagreb and who has been protected by the Croatian authorities for seven years because of what they needed for their dirty work, you don't think that suddenly he has a false identity, and after that, Sretko Kalinic, who was extradited after signing this agreement, namely, they have, through those you have done here in parliament, by stealing the mandate of the SRS, focused on the man whose hands are tied and who fights against the international public against this quasi court. So, Mr. Bradic, what our Krajina people are about to say today, our troubled people who have lost their loved ones, and I will illustrate to you what kind of reciprocity it will be, through one example, what they will say is only, unfortunately, a sad picture of this authority that humiliated Serbia and the Serbian people, worshiping both Croats and Muslims, and not seeking, on the other hand, to condemn them. They have committed the worst possible violation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Crime against Humanity, that they are convicted of these crimes. I'm going to tell you through this example of what it looks like, and imagine, there's now a one-year sentence being threatened. Then Mr. Maric will continue to speak more explicitly about it. In absentia, a group of Serbs received 36 years for allegedly beating, in Medak's pocket, some police officer in 1991. In the Medak pocket, 99 Serbs disappeared in 1991, killed, done by Ustasha criminals, and they all received a total sentence of seven years in prison. So, one Croat is worth as much as the Serbs. See where justice is then, how this shameful contract was carried out, signed by Mrs Malovic on behalf of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48774	Nine minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, and then by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I will express a sharp protest over the humiliation of parliament, yesterday and today, in the most harsh way possible. There are three branches of government: legislative, it's parliament; executive, it's government and judicial, judicial. Of those three equal branches of government, it is, however, Parliament, to say, a little more equal, because, Mr Bradic, you took an oath before parliament, not us before the government. Therefore, the respect of parliament at least by the executive government had to be slightly different. We've been waiting two days for the ministers to come and defend the laws they've proposed. There was supposed to be half of the current government here, because these are the laws... (President: Please do not lead the public astray. He's supposed to be a government official here, and he's here. Regardless of the passion that you are defending Parliament, I would ask you not to forget the racio, which obliges you to comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The government's representative is here and the debate can run. ) Mrs. Comic, if I ask Mr. Bradic a question today, whose profession I have great respect for and what is the minister of culture, but a question relating to international law, a question relating to the economic part, how will Mr. Bradic answer me? Why aren't there ministers here who have proposed these laws? (President: National MP, ask Minister Bradic, and you will see whether he will answer you or not, but do not violate the Rules of Procedure before that. Minister Bradic is present and is doing his job as a representative and member of the government, so he cannot be given any objections. ) It is clear to me that the other ministers cut the tape and open the villages of Podokin, and we will see the windows when they open, they will cut the tapes. But let's put that aside, let's get back to the subject. First, I will talk about the bill on ratification of the contract between Serbia and Croatia. No shorter law, no shorter law. The law in total has two members and something in between. In between, it is the contract signed by Mrs Malovic and that is executed for all Serbs, wherever they are. First, on the basis of this contract, when it was ratified in the voting day by the Assembly, all Serbs who had ever, since 1990, responded to the mobilization and then took the rifle into their hands and left as volunteers, no matter where they were born, where they came from, there is the possibility of their extradition to Croatia being tried. According to Croatia, Miss Natasa said, in three slaps for 32 years, for 60 Serbs seven years in prison, for 60 killed Serbs, for a cleaned Medak pocket seven years in prison. You will literally bring absolute uncertainty among the citizens of Serbia, a danger to all those who took part and a special threat to Serbs who escaped from the Ustasha knife from the Republic of Croatia and Republika Srpska, who has been literally cleared. What's ethnic cleansing, if not flash, and if not storm, where none of them are left alive. The fifty-six Serbs in the Medak pocket are 70-80-year-olds who couldn't go after the army and stayed there. Today, their descendants, if they are in Serbia, on the basis of this treaty, the Republic of Croatia will press charges against them, not to speak of those twenty thousand secret indictments that already exist in the Republic of Croatia, so they will press charges and demand from our judiciary, ask the state of Serbia, and the state of Serbia will generously send them there to prove their innocence. You've set it upside down, otherwise the relationship is set upside down. No proven innocence, proven guilty, but they will have to prove their innocence in Croatia. What will they be brought up for, unless they're already filed, charges? Fifty thousand tenants' rights in Croatia are denied to Serbs, taken from Serbs. The property left by Serbs when they retreated, in front of the Ustasha knife, is measured by tens of billions of euros. Because of those tens of billions of euros, anyone who dares to ask what happened to his property in Croatia will be charged, an investigation will be launched and will be asked by our judiciary and the state of Serbia to be delivered to them there. Perete, gentlemen from the government, Croatia before joining the EU. What makes the citizens need to know? I don't know, I don't want to doubt the good intentions of some of the government, but I think it all smells like it. I'm looking at today, and these would be lit up in the hall of the National Assembly, the bust of Karajord, the bust of Emperor Dushan. Emperor Dusan would be alive today, delivered to The Hague tribunal for large-scale Serbian aspirations, as he fought wars and spread Serbia. Karadjordza would certainly have delivered Turkey because such a contract would be signed with Turkey, because of the ethnic cleansing of the Mishar field in the fight in Mishar. The SRS will certainly be against such a proposal for a contract and against such a law for ratification of the contract. We don't mind the criminals who get caught here, being tried, for criminals from Serbia who get caught there, being tried. Come to these contracts, Mr. Bradic, for the government to ask Nasir Oric to prosecute him for a crime in the upper Podrinj. Three thousand five hundred twenty Serbian heads fell in the upper Podrinj when Naser Oric and his brother, Bulumen, came out of Srebrenica. He won two years in The Hague. Come on, ask any of those found to have committed war crimes, to belong to other nations, Croatian and Bosniak. Are you going to get them, based on these contracts you're going to sign and vote for sure? You won't, but that's why they'll be looking for all the Serbs from here, and those in Republika Srpska already have a hand and a little bit of a calling, because in a strange time, in an unknown place, he's killed an unknown BiH citizen, raping an unknown girl. That's how these contracts are treated. The SRS will certainly vote against ratification of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48776	Eight minutes of MP time was used. The People's Messenger Dusan Maric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48777	Ladies and gentlemen, if Serbia intends to honour this extradition agreement with Croatia, Serbia will have to hand over at least a few hundred of its citizens, Serbs from the Republic in the coming years...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48778	The MPs, already in several discussions, reiterated claims, i.e. information and knowledge that this agreement will result in extradition. I ask you either to quote the number of requests and the charges filed, or to stop the rumor of unverified spreading the truths about the subject of the contract. I listen very carefully to all MPs, expecting the point, that one of you should say where the requests for extradition are for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Croatia or BiH. No manipulation, please. It is too serious for such a single topic to be used exclusively for party purposes through all discussions. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48779	Okay. I really like to hear the explanation from my predecessors, who have spoken more than an hour on this subject, is not noted. I've just started my discussion, but it seems I'm overpaid to be warned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48780	You haven't been warned, you haven't even been warned. I am under the obligation of Article 27 and on the basis of Article 90(2) to remind you, because you said that hundreds of our citizens will be extradited, that you are responsible for the public word, as well as your colleagues, to say who, on the basis of which demand and how, and to remind you that one such subject cannot, must not work for you and all of us, for the sake of this institution, be misused for purely party purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48781	Thank you. The point is that the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia will be referred to co-operation with the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia through the adoption of this law. I will use the time at my disposal to warn the judicial authorities of our country, to draw their attention to what kind of justice system they're dealing with. I'll do it on the following examples. Željko Knezevic from Ocun near Knin, sentenced in Croatia to 20 years in prison, in absentia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48782	National MPs, the quality of the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of BiH, the problems they have, the legislation that regulates their work, are not the subject of our agenda point and are not the topic of the agreement that the Government has sent to us through the discussion to determine whether or not we will ratify. I'm asking you most nicely to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48783	Mrs. Komic, as far as I know the Cyrillic letter and the Serbian language, this is about the extradition of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to Croatia, citizens who committed crimes and vice versa, the extradition of Croatian citizens to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, who committed crimes. I think I have the right, after an hour and a half of my predecessors, to talk about the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, to talk about examples of how the Croatian judiciary has treated people who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48784	People's MP, I'm warning you now. We all know we're reading the draft agreements ahead of us. I explained twice why I patiently waited through the discussions to hear what your colleagues and you were up to. You insist that during a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where several agreements are discussed, you speak your qualifications to another state's judicial system. That's not the subject of the agenda, so I'm warning you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48785	Mrs. Komic, I simply want to warn you that the adoption of this law will take place, i.e. how it can affect the legal security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially the legal security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia originating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48786	I can't be any clearer, MP. It's a rumor spread. Either give information on who's in the request for extradition and give the number of the indictment, or don't pretend we don't understand what's responsible for the public word. A few times there's been word of what's going to be quite safe here. Fear and falsehood are spreading in the public of Serbia. Your intention is, so you started speaking, that hundreds of citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be handed over to the Republic of Croatia, and then to talk about the problems or advantages, whatever you want, of the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia, and then to tell you what will happen safely because a mutual extradition agreement is signed between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. That's the subject of the agenda, if you have the information. If not, then rumors and spreads are false and I cannot allow that because that is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges me to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48787	So I'm just going to talk about cases that have already been ruled, so I'm not speculating.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48788	People's MP, the cases we've already ruled out are not subject to the agenda. I don't think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48789	It is not clear to me that one state can sign a co-operation agreement with another country in the area of law and that it cannot discuss in the parliament of that State how the judicial system of that state works and what can expect citizens of the Republic of Serbia to do if Article 1 of this Treaty is implemented, which reads: "The obligation of extradition - Contracting States undertake to extradite, on request, persons in a country seeking extradition (hereinafter referred to as the State of Prayer) to be prosecuted for a criminal offence or sought for the execution of a prison sentence or other measure involving the confiscation of freedom, in accordance with the law of the Contracting States". We do not dispute, as Mrs Natasa Jovanovic said, the need for such agreements to be signed in the fight against crime, that criminals are processed regardless of religion and nation, whether in Croatia or Serbia, but as an MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I believe I have the right to speak and to warn the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, the public of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs who are to vote on this law, what can happen and what kind of abuses occur in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and all with the aim of paying attention to decisions on the extradition of our or Croatian citizens to Croatian judicial authorities. Please let me do this. So, I'm not going to speculate, and I'm not going to name names, and even if I did, I can't name them, because on Croatian charges, according to their data, 1,300 names. I don't know those names. Thank you. I'd like to continue my discussion now. I remind people's MPs and citizens of Serbia of one case of the procession of Svetozar Karan, who lived in New Belgrade, is a refugee from the Republic of Croatia, worked at the Index 10 Cevabžine in New Belgrade. On his return to Croatia, he was sentenced to 13 years in prison for crimes committed by him and his ancestors in the last 500 years in one, according to a criminal enterprise committed along with the Ottomans. I must read the argument of the verdict signed by Judge Branko Milanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48790	You don't have to, MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48791	I don't have to, but I do, and I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48792	This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You've read what the proposal for an agreement is like in front of us. That's the subject of the agenda. Reading the judgments passed by other judicial systems will not be a topic of the agenda and cannot be a topic of the agenda. Please, either you will talk about the subject of the agenda, or I will ask you to speak of something else. Your right is inalienable, right to the word, but also to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, please, without reading the judgments of other judicial systems that have nothing to do with the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48793	Mrs. Komic, Croatia has been expelled, according to various estimates, between 600 and 800,000 Serbs. Most of them, precisely because of the conduct of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, which I wanted to talk about, and you do not allow me, are not allowed back into the Republic of Croatia. There's hundreds of thousands of them back on paper, and they're really back 40 grand...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48794	National MP, the topic of the agenda is the handover of the persons to whom the sentence of prison is to begin or who have judicial convictions. The topic of our agenda is not speculation about whether anyone in Croatia might be suspected in the future, so convicted, or whether anyone in the future in Serbia might be suspicious, so prosecuted and convicted. They're all, and when criminal charges are filed, they're innocent until proven otherwise. I repeat - you are talking about the agenda, not your projections of what will happen in Croatia or Serbia in six months, in ten years or 50 years. Some other MP will talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48795	Since it's been ten minutes and 34 seconds, now I'm wondering how much time I have left since you've spoken too?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48796	National MP, no MP has ever been suspended during his reminder of his business obligation. Your time is three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48797	I need to know about a colleague of Jojic who talks after me. Thank you for your correctness. Finally, from you to experience such a gesture of correctness and I thank you. You asked for a specific example.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48798	Please – no offense and no direct address. There's nothing I've said that you can lead under the fact that it was incorrect. Please remind yourself that there is no direct address and that you are obliged to obey the chairman's instructions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48799	The justice authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, ask the Republic of Serbia for the extradition of Zeljko Knezevic, from Father Peter from Ocun to Knin, who was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison and is on the international arrest warrant, because it is reportedly said in the verdict, and they claim exactly, as a member of the Serbian military force of Krajina and a guard in the Knin military prison, during 1992, beat Croatian prisoners in the Knin prison, and one of them beat so much – I will not mention the name that this unfortunate man died. So, in particular, the Republic of Serbia is at the request of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia that Zeljko Knezevic, who lives in the Great Plan, be extradited to Croatia. There wouldn't be any controversial things here if it wasn't for the next facts. Zeljko Knezevic has committed neither the above nor any other crime in the Knin prison. Oh, here's why. Material facts that can easily be checked, dozens of witnesses who can confirm this, say: Zeljko Knezevic has never been a member of any military police unit in his life. Zeljko Knezevic has never entered a Knin prison in his life and Zeljko Knezevic has never entered a single military prison in Croatia in his life. Also, on the list of those whose extradition is likely to be sought, is old Ivanka Savic from Vukovar. A woman is 80 years old. She was accused of showing Serbian soldiers who were defending the city from October 1991 to April 1992, threatening Croatian civilians, while Croatia's Marija Blažević, with whom she lived in the same house at the time, allegedly stole sheets, dishes and other less valuable items. She was sentenced in absentia to an incredible eight years in prison. For each allegedly stolen Croatian sherpa, she received two years in prison. The second-degree court estimated that the eight-year sentence for four sherpas was unfair, so the old woman was justly sentenced to a year and two months in prison for each reported sherpa. I am now interested in how the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia will act. I say again - it is an old woman who, at the moment of the crime, in a town where Serbs and Croats killed hundreds of people, and none of them were convicted, a woman convicted of war crimes for stealing sherpas, bed linen from the Croatian woman who lived in the house for three and a half years. You know what that war criminal did? In 1994, she left Vukovar. Do you know where she went? She didn't go to Novi Sad. She didn't escape to Belgrade. She went to live in Osijek. Chetnikusha committed crimes, they say, and went to live on Croatian territory, right into the hands of Croatian judicial authorities. Since I am not allowed to quote a series of examples that point to the work of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, I will use these two minutes left to remind me of an agreement with the Republic of BiH, to remind briefly of the work of BiH's judicial authorities in the processing of perpetrators of criminal acts. The murder of 3,000 Serb civilians in Sarajevo, the number of indictees -- two -- the number of convicted -- one. The murder of 3200 Serb soldiers and civilians in Srebrenica, Bratunc and Skelani, the number of indictees -- zero, number of convicted -- zero. The killing of 50 Serbian civilians at the JNA House in Derventa, the number of indictees -- zero, the number of convicted -- zero. The murder of 60 Serbs from Bradina and Konjic in camps in Tarcino, two indictees, one convicted. The massacre of several hundred Serbs in the camps in Brod and Ojac, no defendants, no convictions. The murder of several dozen Serb civilians in Molovan, Kupres, Serbian villages around Bugojna and Villa's houses, the number of indictees -- one, the number of convicted -- zero. Furthermore, the beastly murders of a few dozen Serbs in Livn, no defendants, no convictions. The murder of 300 Serb civilians and captured soldiers in Mrkonjic City, including 20 of my soldiers, Mrs Comic, has not been convicted or convicted by BiH's judicial authorities. Let me tell you, in the village of Surian, on the Mt. Manjaca mountain, eight severely disabled people from that village and the surrounding villages, they closed up in one house and burned down with that house. There are no convictions for the murders of a few dozen JNA soldiers in Dobrovavica Street in Sarajevo, for the murder of a few dozen soldiers in the Tuzlan column, for the murder of several dozen campers in the Vicor Bubanj barracks in Sarajevo. To complete and return to this agreement with Croatia, Serbs had no right to return to Croatia, had no legal framework. Today we create a kind of legal framework, allow these people to return to Croatia, but not to their own estates, not to their own houses, but to return to prison, to serve a prison sentence for imaginary war crimes, because they defended the Serb people from genocide, and then to be sent back to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48800	Ten minutes of MP time was used. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Time is available for 12 minutes. I'm sorry, the minister checked in. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48801	Dear People's MPs, MPs, I think that during this discussion, two points of the agenda were connected to the conclusions arising from the structures, not based on what is the subject of the agenda point. It's about the agenda point 6 and the agenda point 9. As you know, the item of agenda 6 is the bill on the confirmation of the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes. The item of agenda number 9 is the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition for organised crime and corruption. It's clearly in the documents that are in front of you. I think that during this discussion, there has been an abuse of topics and a connection between them, which simply do not come from the agenda. Of course, it is the right of every MP, I have respected your discussions for more than two hours, to talk about what is a subject that is of fundamental interest to you, which could have something to do with the scheduled agenda. What we've been talking about so far is not the subject we've had the chance to discuss. So the 9th agenda makes it very clear that the Treaty provides for criminal acts of organised crime and corruption, and that is in the document. I ask you to keep an eye on this discussion, for it is certainly the obligation of all the MPs, as much as we who sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48802	You have no right to a replica. National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Time is available for 12 minutes. Please don't throw it away. After MP Petar Jojic, the word is Srdjan Milivojevic, only I ask you to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48803	Mrs. Comic, as the previous issue leading the session in one direction, which I disagree with, I would be pleased, as well as the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, these remarks and these objections and these dangers that may potentially arise, that Mr. Bradic is able to explain something to us because he is not a resolute minister, as far as the justice ministry is concerned. I am sorry that Mrs Malovic is not here, because she, as a resolution minister, could give some answers and explanations, so that the session could run in that direction and stick to the topic. I think if the minister could, that what Mr Dusan Maric, Natasa said, as Momir Markovic, Dejan Mirovic and the other MPs of the SRS... You know how, who was bitten by snakes, that lizard is afraid. This should not be taken as wrong now, which is why we are still distracting the authorities, and if it is possible, Minister Bradic, can he give us an answer, so that we do not have to delay the topic or turn away from the topic? If you are able, I know that the minister of justice has requested some information, how many charges have been filed in Croatia against Serbs? That's one question. Secondly, how much has the extradition request been filed? Third, against how many Serbs who have been expelled from Republika Srpska, an arrest warrant has been filed through the state authorities of Croatia and how many through the international Interpol? It would be good, and I would be pleased if Mr. Secretary could answer these questions, then you would certainly have reason to draw our attention to going over the way you want. Mr. Minister, if you are unable, what I can do, because the failure is that Mrs. Malovic is not present today, but it would be good if you could give us, and that ministry has that information and has warned the Ministry of Justice last year. You see, when it comes to the extradition of our citizens to a foreign state, it was regulated by the CAP, which I worked with all experts and the team in 2000 and 2001. That was in the heads of 32nd and 33rd. Believe that there were experts on my team, from the Municipal Court, the district attorney's office, police, professors, academics, law school and the Institute of Comparative Law. We have made such standards that have been the most democratic in Europe. The CAP has received an assessment in Europe that it is among the most democratic laws in Europe when it comes to even extradition. The CAP has now removed the area of extradition and providing international legal assistance in criminal matters, so the Law on International Criminal Assistance has been passed, and now we have a bill and contract relating to extradition. There's a fear, Mr. Minister, don't mess this up with your mind and get around it, there's a public impression that there's no legal certainty when we teach someone like this. Here's why. We have positive legislation. In our positive procedural legislation, and this falls within the area of procedural law, it is precisely determined how the competent state authorities will act, i.e. how the investigative judge will act, how the prosecutor will act, how he will act in an extrajudicial manner, and how he will investigate the greater. It's a elaborate matter that, in any case, deserves first place in Europe. However, what are we going to do if now, you see the scope of Croatia's demands and the scope of BiH's demands has exceeded every framework and every measure, look, please, someone from Bosnia submits a request. Here's what it's all about. What do they have the right to seek? They have the right to ask our authorities to call on the competent authority, to take statements from citizens, that citizens are being questioned in the capacity of the accused, to examine themselves as witnesses, to search their apartment, to search their faces, to see if they are being heard, to listen. That's what the law says, in this contract. Then, to take a secret shot, to obtain photodocumentation, to make an insight, to take away objects, and to take away property and worse, there is something that cannot be incorporated into our procedural criminal law, that these requirements can be accepted in certain cases, although there is no application. Imagine, the successors of Hakija and Hamdija Pozderco from Sarajevo can now report to Belgrade – please listen to the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gordana Comic or Peter Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48804	People's MP, it's comfortable, whoever it is, but you're on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48805	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48806	I'm warning you. I listen to you very carefully, and now I'm warning you. The next warning will be to force me to give you warning measures without public listening. So, about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48807	Please, did I get out of the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48808	Yeah, that's why I remind you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48809	Here you go, Mrs. Comic, see what Article 32 says.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48810	Article 32, what's the People's Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48811	Please, the law, the Treaty of Co-operation on Extradition between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. Here's what he says, what they have the right to demand - a call, number one, a delivery of letters, number two, a hearing of the defendant, an interrogation of witnesses and an expert, see that he's doing someone on their orders, a search of rooms and faces, temporary confiscation of the case...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48812	National MP, please do not make fun of the National Assembly session, as any BiH authorities can do the same, Serbian authorities are doing the same. Please, I ask you very much now to remember the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to speak about the subject of the agenda. It's about the contract and the agreement, where the rights and obligations you quote are mutual. If you want to mock the Republic of Serbia, saying that it will do something inappropriate, because of the signing of this agreement, I must prevent you from doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48813	Do you allow me to read a member of this contract and a bill or not? If not, tell me. I'm reading correctly, and I'm on the subject of the agenda. I'm saying what both of them have the right to seek. I have to distract you one more time, what are we going to do, Mrs. Comic, if we need to hand over some of our citizens who are going to be extradited to a foreign state? We give our faces to a foreign country, and in that state, the death penalty will be imposed. Our legislation does not know the death penalty, such as in the US – electric chair, guillotine, gas chamber, etc. You see, in this America, here's an example, America doesn't extradite its citizens, you know?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48814	People's MP, we are not signing an agreement with America, we are signing an agreement with BiH and Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48815	That's right. I'm just talking about what's going to happen, because the law says, you see, and there are certain parts in the explanation. And the expert legal public says what will happen if we hand over our citizen, and we have an agreement with that state to hand him over if it's a year in prison and it's determined that if he crosses the border and goes from the legal sovereignty of our country, he's being charged with the most serious crimes there and he's being sentenced to death. Our legislation and our legislators so say, therefore, this Parliament, we can extradite on the basis of reciprocity if it is a crime that is prescribed both in our country and in the country that begs extradition. We need to discuss it here. It's easy to get over this, it's no problem, but as a lawyer and a lawyer, I still have to ask you to understand me. My endeavor is never to agree, I have the right to say I'm against this law. Am I right? And I'm not voting for this law. It threatens both me and you and the citizens of Serbia to be tapped, searched, photographed, filmed...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48816	People's MP, I warned you not to make fun of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48817	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48818	Please listen to me. If you claim that it is threatening that someone from another country is listening to Serbian citizens, which is done under a mutual agreement, that means that you are ordering BiH citizens to be threatened by someone from the Republic of Serbia. Not that it is a measure of warning, but I do not know how to hear me, and to understand me, what you say in the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48819	I'm talking about the subject, the one I'm talking about. Here's a stenogram. I'm giving you a chance to make sure I'm out of the subject tomorrow. If I'm out, take all measures. I'd like to ask you for one more explanation. How is there no civil rights agreement in this agreement with Croatia, as is the case with BiH?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48820	Because it's a different agreement, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48821	What deal? Mrs. Comic, it is an agreement that will not allow Serbs to apply for a return of property and will not be able to exercise their right to retire.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48822	Now I ask you again not to mock the Republic of Serbia, because you will argue, and it is the same claim. It is the same claim that the Republic of Serbia will defend human and civil rights to someone who is seeking their property, and the Republic of Serbia does not give it. I don't think you have the consciousness right now or the power to hear me as I remind you of the duties of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The mutual obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia are discussed in one case, both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH in another case. If your idea of thinking that you can, I don't know a better word right now, by uglying some other country to save our country from being ugly, your idea is wrong. It is my duty to stop you in this, reminding you of the Rules of Procedure. Please, the obligations of the agreement are mutual, whatever you say about the Republic, the co-signator of the agreement applies to our Republic of Serbia as well. Please, you have three more minutes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48823	Mrs. Comic, I've been a lawyer and a lawyer for 40 years. I'm just relying on the agenda framework and I'm sticking to the strict agenda. I don't know why it bothers you if an SRS MP is telling the truth. I didn't insult anyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48824	I won't let you insult the state of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48825	Who tells you you're insulting? I won't let anyone insult the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48826	Thank you, People's Messenger. Please look at the stenogram and understand that it is my job not to let you insult the Republic of Serbia. This is my personal position, if you ask me. People's MP, please don't throw it away. (Petar Jojic, from the place: This is a replacement thesis and I disagree with you. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48827	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I expected today in this room a different debate over several very important conventions that we are going to discuss today in this House, which in a few days, I am absolutely confident that we will vote on by the vast majority of all people who think that finally Serbia in its fair fight is getting a lot of arguments to endure in this fight. There are two very important conventions on the agenda that I want to talk about today in particular. This is the proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes and this is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition. In the context of new circumstances, which also European parliamentarians presented to the European Parliament on trade in human organs in KIM, on the terrible crimes against our countrymen, I expected that today, even if we show and show unity in this House and show that it is important to show that war crimes are not outdated, that Serbia will insist on justice, that human dignity means, above all, the most important segment in the functioning of any country. Now, because of those who speak, I will read what the first member of the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes says. The Member States of the Council of Europe are signing, and otherwise this Convention is signed on 21 January 1974, when some in this Chamber have not even been born, so it says – the Member States of the Council of Europe, the signatories of this Convention, given the need to protect human dignity in times of war and peace, since criminal acts against humanity and the most serious violations of the laws and customs of war, represent a serious violation of human dignity, concerned about the consequences of ensuring that the punishment for such crimes is not prevented by obsolescence in relation to the prosecution or maintenance of punishment, given the fundamental interest in promoting a common policy in the fight against crime in this area, the aim of the Council of Europe is to achieve greater unity of its members, as follows, and then states the text of this Convention on the non-demandation of criminal acts. I remind you that in this House, you have ignored the opportunity to express so much need for unity and that once again in this House, through this convention, we praise the efforts of our parliamentarians, who a few days ago in the Council of Europe in the Parliamentary Assembly defended the right of Serbia, that war crimes committed against Serbian citizens do not become obsolete, to show once again that this is the acute truth about crimes against Serbian citizens about organ trafficking. You have tried another convention here, another treaty signed by the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, used to create an atmosphere of hopelessness, to accuse the Republic of Serbia of betraying the country's national interests, not to worry about our citizens. We have witnessed before, in a previous discussion of previous laws, that some people consciously twist words, that they consciously focus their discussion on creating this atmosphere of hopelessness, that they do not want to read what this international agreement says and that they are therefore not responsible. What happened to those people who, just a year ago, said in this room that they had failed foreign banks and invited citizens to raise money? Nothing. What will happen today to those who claim that we, I don't know how many hundreds or thousands of citizens in this country, will deliver to Croatia? They will not bear any conconsequences, to those consequences in the elections, and these are the most terrible coincidences, as citizens can recognize those who are trying to abuse efforts, efforts and efforts by the Republic of Serbia to introduce the Republic of Serbia into a order of civilised states that oppose organised crime and international terrorism. How many Serbian citizens had the opportunity to face in the past, not so long ago, the fact that crime, especially organised crime, that terrorism knows neither the ideological differences, nationality, or state, or any other personality, but rather the crime flows very easily from the territory of one republic to the territory of another republic. Didn't a group of organised criminals in Serbia commit the murder of the owner of the "Nacional" in Croatia, Ivo Pukanic? Yes, it is. Is there anyone in this room who can deny it? No, because there is currently a court case in Croatia, there is a court case in Serbia for this serious crime. How many opportunities have we had in recent times to see criminals from Croatia who are engaged by the Serbian mafia in this country to perform the most terrible crimes? Do we need to close our eyes, as a state, and now stick our heads in the sand and say, "No, we won't stand up to evil." The state of Serbia will face evil. The state of Serbia will provide those criminals who commit crimes in Serbia, and are originating in Croatia, but also those criminals who think Serbia will be a safe house for those criminals who deal with organised crime, and I am calling for Croatia's justice, because of organised crime and international terrorism, to deliver them to the Republic of Croatia. Here I have heard various interpretations of this contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition. That's what Mrs. Chairman noticed. First, no one is to blame until the court finds it. He who is suspected and accused has the right to assume innocence until the court has delivered a verdict. But I will read to you, citizens of Serbia, because of this atmosphere of hopelessness, panic and cartoonation of everything we want to do in the fight against organised crime, the opening provisions of the treaty signed between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition: "Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia (hereinafter referred to as the Contracting States), the conscious need to further improve mutual co-operation in the area of justice, taking into account the high risk of organised crime and corruption, their transnational expansion, as well as the importance of fighting organised crime and corruption, and the need for effective mutual co-operation of the states in this fight, in order to particularly regulate co-operation in terms of extradition, agreed on the following. '"That's what Mr. Minister said. Therefore, from this treaty signed by the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, only fear should be given to criminals and, possibly, concerns can be expressed by those who finance these criminals and who these criminals support. I don't see any concern about showing my concern that some criminal from Serbia will be extradited to Croatia or that some criminal who committed a crime in Croatia will be extradited to Serbia. I don't see these reasons for fear, I don't see that reason for panic, and I don't see any impact on my life, on my political action, on my political opinion, and I'm not afraid of being brought to justice and saying what they know and what they have to say. But here some people wanted to say that some 80-year-olds would answer and go to jail for not knowing what kind of crimes. Because of them, I have to read to you Article 18, although it's not going to happen that I, as a graduate farm engineer for livestock farming, teach legal studies, but the truth is for the sake of truth and truth alone, I am obliged to speak the truth from this assembly booth in the evening of St. Nicholas and read Article 18. – specific cases for which extradition is refused: extradition will not be allowed for acts for which, under the right of both States Parties, a penalty of imprisonment or a measure involving the confiscation of freedom, for a maximum duration of five years, and if extradition would obviously be extremely difficult to hit a person whose extradition is required for his age, long stay in the requested State and other serious reasons of personal nature. So I don't expect anyone, first of all 80, to be involved in organized crime. That practice doesn't know anywhere in the world. Usually organized crime is done by people of many younger years and many younger age. I'm saying, he doesn't know this criminal activity and that criminal association practice and the experience that people who entered the eighth or ninth decades of organized crime, or anyone in Serbia who is 80 or 90 years old should fear that they will be extradited to the Republic of Croatia for anything. Anyone who decides to deal with organized crime here, then commits serious crimes, as did the murderers, Zoran Djindjic, and then flees to Croatia, must know that the hand of justice will catch up with them. Anyone who has come to Serbia to commit a crime here must know that this is not a polygon for the survival of organised criminal groups, but a well-organised country, a well-organised state that rests on the law, in the Constitution, in the rule of law, in an independent judiciary, and that this independent judiciary will be able to assess all its ability to include all its resources, punish criminals, to free the innocent, but the state of Serbia will be a state for example in Europe, when it comes to fighting organised crime, and will be the bearer of the fight against organised crime in this part of Europe, and there will be no state that has reserved its place on black chronicles of any European newspaper. Thank you for your attention, and I ask you to support these international agreements for the importance, for the wishes and efforts of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against organised crime, and when you look at the results that we have achieved in the past year, you will see how deep you are in error and you will see how good it is to support the efforts and efforts of all state institutions, to make Serbia a leader in the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48828	12 minutes of MP time was used. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and she gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48829	Mrs. Comic, you violated, during the presidency, Article 96, paragraph 7. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 96, you could not give Mr Milivojevic a word because he was not on the application for discussion and is not on the list of registered speakers, as you and I know, as well as the deputy secretary. So he later jumped in, some quasiarguments that did not serve anything, but ordinary political flossules of the DS, were supposed to refute the exceptional argument of Serbian radicals, who, although having been disturbed during the presentation, had said everything the public needed to hear. On the other hand, you injured a 107th member because the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was injured. You did not react at the time when it was said that we had no ear for the general unity we need these days, and in the context of a report submitted before the Council of Europe by rapporteur Dick Marti on the trade of the organs of our Serbs, because then it was said that we do not defend and welcome the efforts of Serbian parliamentarians in this. Mrs. Comic, you know very well that I am one of those parliamentarians from our delegation who counts 14 members and you should have reacted. You know very well that, just like my other esteemed colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, but I do not dispute the participation of other representatives headed by the head of the delegation, we have made an immeasurable contribution to all this which has now come through the epilogue of what Mr Marty has reported, which we will have the opportunity to plead in the Council of Europe on 24 January of the following year. Therefore, not only for the sake of correctness, when you talk about protecting the state of Serbia, but also because of the fact that a much greater contribution, if you will, and me personally, and my colleagues from the SRS, is that this should come on the agenda, but also because of the fact that it is a much greater contribution, if you will, and my colleagues from the Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48830	The violation of article 107 has not been or has been injured by the dignity of the National Assembly. National MP Natasa Vuckovic is a member of the political committee and in Paris she defended the interests of the delegation in which you participate, did not endanger you, nor you, nor your dignity in one word, so that this member is not injured. You have every right to be a member of 96. I'm asking you to be a stenographer and officers who follow the text that I'm about to dictate, divided by MP groups. The text reads: "According to the remarks made by Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, to violate Article 96 and allow MPs to later, and after the chairman requests that the application be submitted for a word, to be applied, and given the right to speak during the order of the MPs, this practice, which was considered a good parliamentary way of communication in the Assembly, ceases on the day of 17 December at 15.45 p.m. and will no longer be allowed to apply to the list of speakers, and after the time when the session is scheduled for the list of speakers to be submitted," the text reads. Please refer this letter to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. "It will also not be allowed to change the order in the application for a word and to change the names, i.e. that the MPs who are registered, and for any reason cannot attend, will be replaced by other MPs, since this is also the respect of Article 96 which implies our mutual obligations. While Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic is absolutely right, when he seeks strict compliance with the provisions of 96, this ends the practice we have established, viewing it as a good parliamentary practice. "The People's Parliament requests that we plead in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I have determined was made. National MP Momir Markovic says there is a punishment if someone breaks the Rules of Procedure – goes. Can I say it? No, to MP Momir Markovic who throws out of place. Thank you. You're still throwing it out of place? That's the second violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the Proposals for Laws under items 5-11 of the agenda. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision taken by the LDP parliamentary group. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Embassy group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Since, on the justified remarks of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic, we have interrupted the practice of tolerateing MPs to bring in lists of speakers during the open debate and to tolerate changes in names, correspondence and order, then I am telling you that the lists can be submitted until the moment until a single search, joint, principled search or individual search is opened. After that, no MP, no parliamentary group, and on the basis of Article 96 and with gratitude for the initiative, Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic will be accepted no proposals to report in the debate. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Nenad Milic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (No) I shall inform you that they agree with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a single search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give the word to the first reported, in order, MP Natasa Jovanovic, after which, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48831	Mrs. Komic, as you can see, and this time, which is our parliamentary right, only the SRS is talking about this agenda point. We are doing this for principled reasons and to explain to the public and citizens of Serbia who are following this direct transmission. The point is that a colleague, now former, Slobodan Maras, who resigned as MPs in the parliamentary group, is from a list selected by Cedomir Jovanovic - LDP. The Liberal Democratic Party, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, through its authorised representative, Mr. Nenad Milic, who has been authorised by this item of the agenda, and from that party, has applied to change Mr. Maraš and to have three seats on three committees, which are the Committee on Industry, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance, filled in the name of our new colleague, Mr. Bojan Đuric, who replaced Mr. Maras. It is a normal parliamentary practice and we can support it at any time, as we have done all these years, twenty years ago. However, why did my colleague Markovic and I apply for a discussion on this agenda? Because the fact that what the LDP and what it's done at this point is in one part the SRS disabled... (President: Please discuss the agenda. The topic of the agenda is the proposal of the LDP and will be allowed nothing but strict respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which means that you are talking about the topic of the agenda, which is – which the MP leaves, or is resolved by membership in which committee, which is entered. That's the subject of the agenda. ) Okay, I'll keep talking, but I believe I won't have to react later in case I ask the Assembly and MPs to protect me, if my democratic right is violated, because I strictly stick to agenda issues and you have a decision like me in front of you. The three committees in which Djuric will be a new MP and participate are three parliamentary bodies formed years ago. I would like to say to this occasion that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since we are at the end of 2010 and we can draw the line, because the next, and I believe, weeks before the end, we will not have the opportunity to talk about it, through the work of the MPs, participants from all political parties, and what the public could not see, because we do not have a direct transmission, we have sometimes only copies, or steal reports from working bodies, or committees, so all MPs are from all parliamentary parties in line with their political programmes and status, whether they are in power or in opposition, they have contributed and worked on these committees. These two committees in which Mr Đuric will be a new candidate, and I believe that in the voting day he will receive support, because it is a legitimate proposal from his parliamentary group, I can say that they did a great job and that I do not ignore the work of the other committees. But, the Committee on Industry and the Committee on Finance, and you will allow me, I will be a little bit and subjective, because, at the head of these committees, the Members of the SRS have, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, dealt with issues concerning the work of these committees, not only that, but he has submitted to the competent state authorities a number of initiatives. I believe that in future work and my colleague Đuric will have such an opportunity, as a member of the LDP, to do so, because both in the Committee on Industry and in the Committee on Finance, the chairman of the Committee, who are members of the SRS, not only do they not interfere with MPs to do so, and what others unfortunately do contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Assembly, and finally, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but encourage such initiatives that are good, but unfortunately, the public is very little aware of it. You know, Mrs. Komic, both you and I and all the members of the presidency, that is, the vice president, with us not being members of all committees, you are in a few, as I am, getting calls for participation in the work of all committees when that time allows us. I go to meetings very often, especially the Committee on Industry, because of the fact that the Committee on Industry is beside legal acts, which came to us from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in these difficult times and in times of economic recession and collapse, but indeed in the true sense of words, and above all our metal complex, treated these issues in a systematic way. All MPs, although many will not admit it, support the government in such plenary debates, had both heard about trade unions and people coming from these companies, such as the Metal System company from Kragujevac, formerly "Philip Kljajic", which interrupted the strike a few days ago, because of the fact that abuse in privatisation took place. The Finance Committee is...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48832	Agenda theme. Therefore, it is not the subject of the agenda of sector policy or practical policy, which is addressed by the Committee. The topic of the agenda is a proposal from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48833	I just want to say what kind of opportunity Mr. Djuric will have to use in...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48834	People's MPs, please, Article 106(1) clearly prescribes what we want to say. Whatever we want to say must be in line with the topic of the agenda, and sectoral policies dealing with committees are not the topic of the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48835	You see, unfortunately, Mrs. Komic, although there is a possibility here and a space to talk about it, you should have the most hearing about it, because you are vice president, from the DS, and you know very well, you are the target of some..
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48836	People's MPs, only my personality is not the subject of the agenda. I can be a subject, only if you want to talk about the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that I'm breaking, and on which I am once again grateful. So either the agenda theme, or I have to start with warnings, then apply the measures. Replacement of board members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48837	The topic of the agenda is certainly parliamentary committees that have no opportunity to promote, if I may say so, through the media and what is available to the public. If you don't want us to talk about it today and about the opportunities that a colleague of Đuric will have..
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48838	I ask you not to be false and to lead the public astray.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48839	I'm just putting it as a hypothesis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48840	It's not about my wishes at all, it's about applying the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I am grateful to you for reminding me that every member of the Rules of Procedure must be strictly applied. The subject of the agenda is the replacement of members of the Committee and you will have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48841	Mrs. Komic, given that you have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure today, which you have recently established, I do not want to do so. It would be ugly for two vice presidents of the Assembly to break the Rules of Procedure in one day. So, uh...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48842	People's MPs, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which, I repeat with gratitude, you pointed out was removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48843	Yes, but I'm telling you, it wouldn't happen again today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48844	Now we don't want a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that you speak beyond the subject of the agenda. I'm warning you now. So either the agenda theme or finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48845	Okay, here's what I'm going to do, because we have for this, as you read earlier in synopsis, the possibility of talking 69 minutes, it wasn't my intention, I want to tell you that the principled position of the SRS is that this proposal, which came from LDP, is certainly supported, as is any other party. Unlike those who took our mandates, and we've stolen 22 terms here. We want to..
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48846	Agenda theme, People's MPs. What? The topic of the agenda is not what you are trying to conclude as an argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48847	Mrs. Comic, since it is now 4:00 p.m. and that the entire public of Serbia knows both my style and my way of expression and why...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48848	People's MPs, I warned you. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48849	So as MP groups belong to mandates, so do seats on committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48850	People's MP, I ask you not to be false and to lead the public astray. The parliamentary groups do not belong to any mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48851	Thus, they are proportionate to the seats of the committees, or the working bodies of the congregation. The Liberal Democratic Party is right to amend, now former member of its parliamentary group, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and places on committees are giving a new MP who has been elected. The proportion that has been established long ago and which, by the way, and the Rules of Procedure should be respected when all parliamentary groups are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48852	People's MPs, the subject is not all parliamentary groups. The topic of the agenda is the proposal of the LDP Parliamentary Group on the replacement of Members of Parliament, members of individual committees, so I would like to ask you on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48853	Madam Chairman, since this is how the discussion goes, since it comes down to dialogue between you and me, I'm using my right, my right to time, and for the next half hour I'm going to be silent, I'm going to use half an hour, and the 15 minutes that remains, I'm giving you to get to Europe as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-17-0.u48854	People's MP, please discuss the subject of the agenda. Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96, members of all parliamentary groups who have applied for the word have taken advantage of their right, so there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups. I would like to ask Natasa Jovanovic and MP Momir Markovic not to receive. It's just as much a violation of the Rules of Procedure as anything else. And MP Filip Stojanovic. National MP Dobrislav Prelic is asking a rude question. I warn you, MP Philip Stojanovic, twice. Please, I understand that it is difficult to talk about the subject of the agenda and respect the Rules of Procedure, but it is not impossible. The session will be closed for a while, so we'll all be on well-deserved vacation. National MP Momir Markovic throws again. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word and before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? National MP Momir Markovic is registered in the electronic system. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (No) You accidentally involved? (Momir Markovic, from the post: Continue the discussion.) ) National MP, please do not throw out the mock session of the National Assembly by throwing it out of the bench that you want to continue the discussion. With your insight into the stenogram, you said you didn't want to discuss it, that you'd be silent. You can keep your mouth shut now and here right now, and you can keep your mouth shut anywhere else, but you can't mock the sessions of the National Assembly during the session of the National Assembly. Out of this room whenever you want. So, since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a unique search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. This concludes the afternoon part of the session, i.e. the total part of the session for today, Friday 17 December, and the work continues on Monday 20 December at 12:00 hours. There are no extensions in the usual 10.00 hours, since we want to allow the procedure needed for the government to deliver a report to the National Assembly on the amendments, and therefore with the usual 10.00 hours, Monday's session will move to less usual 12.00 hours, when we will begin the search in detail on the agenda points on which we have completed a joint principle and uniform search. Thank you, by Monday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 87 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are currently present in the hall and that there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Milan Markovic, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, called for the sittings to be attended by Igor Vukonjanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments of Civil Servants and Detentions (Significes) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by Members of the People: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Ljanadjana Martinović, Vjerica Radaljića Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić and Milić. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to a search in detail, on the basis of Article 90(2), I am informing the National Assembly of the following: today, on the basis of Article 87, we will be working even after 1800 hours, and the break will be set at 1600 hours, given today's beginning of work, not at the usual 10.00 hours but at 12.00 hours, and since I must now set a break in work, because the amendment report, which the government is obliged to hand over to us until the opening of the search in detail, is still in print. So, the report arrived, it was received, it was in the Assembly, but it takes at least an hour for copies of the government's report to be delivered to the MPs. We continue work at 1:15 p.m. and then we'll either work with a break at 4:00 p.m. or without that break, depending on what our pace of work is. In any case, the amendment to Article 1 will be the first in our debate at 1:15 p.m. Thank you.
